DRN-3366896
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Tesco Underwriting Limited valued his vehicle and the amount 
offered to settle his claim. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr B made a claim on his motor insurance policy following a collision with a 
lorry. Following an engineers inspection of the vehicle, Tesco found Mr B wasnt at fault but 
deemed his vehicle a total loss. Based on trade guides and the engineers inspection they 
offered Mr B £3880 to settle the claim. This included a deduction of £130 for what they 
determined was pre accident damage.
Mr B wasnt happy with the valuation, he felt the vehicle was worth around £5,000 as he had 
seen some advertisements for the same make and model in this region. As they couldnt find 
advertisements for similar models, Tesco asked Mr B to provide some examples, but having 
received them they didnt feel those examples were a close enough match to Mr Bs vehicle 
specifications. As their engineer felt the offer made was fair they maintained their position.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator felt Tesco had assessed the 
claim fairly so didnt ask them to do anything more. Mr B remained unhappy, he instructed 
his own engineer to inspect the vehicle and provided a report of their findings. He also said 
he felt the deduction of £130 for pre accident damage was unfair as the damage was caused 
during the accident.
As the investigator wasnt able to resolve things, it was passed to me to decide. I asked 
Tesco to confirm their final valuation as from the information available it appeared their 
engineer didnt think Mr Bs engineers valuation was unreasonable. Tesco confirmed they 
were willing to offer £4090, having taken account of the deduction for pre accident damage.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair but Mr B didnt accept it. He said he wasnt at fault 
for the accident and didnt feel it was fair for them to deduct money. As Mr B remains 
unhappy it has been passed to me to review the file afresh and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability isnt in dispute, Mr B wasnt at fault for the accident that occurred. The vehicle was 
deemed a total loss and the policy terms and conditions set out how Tesco will settle claims 
in this instance. It says:
Once an approved engineer has inspected and assessed the market value of the 
car, we will send you an offer of payment.
It defines market value as:
The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
So Ive considered this when deciding if Tescos offer is fair.
Our service doesnt value vehicles, instead we check to see the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use 
relevant trade guides, as well as considering other information such as adverts. But we tend 
to find the guides most persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices.
Tesco used the vehicle valuation guides as well as their engineers report and opinion to 
determine what they felt was a fair settlement. 
Ive checked the trade guides for the same make, model and specification of Mr Bs car at 
the time of the accident. And considered the independent engineer reports provided by Mr B 
and Tesco as well as the advertisements provided. 
Mr Bs engineer valued the vehicle at £4220 whilst Tescos engineer felt £4010 was fair 
reflection of the market value. Following the review of Mr Bs engineers report and his 
comments around advertised values, Tescos engineer later agreed that £4220 wasnt 
unreasonable.
As this figure is supported by both independent engineers and at the top end of the range of 
the trade guide values it seems to me that £4220 is a fair valuation for the vehicle. Tesco 
have also deducted £130 for pre-accident damage. Bringing their valuation to £4090.
Mr B has said the damage was caused by the accident. Ive looked at both engineer reports 
and having inspected the photos I think it is evident there was some prior damage to the 
vehicle.
Mr B acknowledged due to the age of the car there was some wear and tear and said that it 
has been feathered in at some point with a paint job. However, it is clear there was some 
damaged paint on the bumper, that had been painted over at some point as the paintwork 
isnt smooth and you can clearly see an edge.
I accept that all vehicles are likely to have some wear and tear, particularly one that is 15 
years old. But Im satisfied the paint damage is more significant than light wear and tear as 
in one area it appears to have lost its top surface. 
However, the engineers differ in relation to the damage to the left front wing. Tescos 
engineer says it is misshaped with scratches and has attributed this to a poor previous 
repair. Mr Bs engineer says the front bumper has been re-painted at some point with 
blending to both front wing panels and bonnet. They noted no pre-accident repair damage to 
the near side front wing. 
When an agreement cant be reached, I have to base my findings on a balance of 
probabilities, so what I think was most likely the case based on the evidence available. My 
initial thoughts were that it was fair to deduct £30 for the paint damage to the bumper but I 
couldnt see significant damage to the front wing. 
I shared my thoughts with Tesco as it differed to the investigators opinion. They said their 
engineer had advised that as the car is a prestige vehicle the retail rectification cost would 
be well above the £130 deducted and they felt it was reasonable to deduct it.They also said their engineer had highlighted where the vehicles wing had been repaired 
using body filler and had been poorly refinished. They pointed out blemishes and 
indentations which suggested a substandard repair. 
Mr Bs engineer has said there isnt any evidence of a poor pre-accident repair and I cant 
see from the evidence available there has been. From looking at the pictures it seems 
plausible the wing has been re-painted at some point as you can see the difference in colour 
on the edge of the panel. But from what I can see it doesnt seem significantly out of shape. 
Its possible a repair has taken place but theres no indication of when the repair may have 
happened. The blemishes could have occurred after the repair, there isnt any evidence to 
suggest it was as a result of a repair itself.
Overall, I dont think this makes a difference here as I dont think the wear and tear pointed 
out would significantly impact the value of the vehicle and would likely be reflected in the 
overall valuation of the car given its age.
If you were selling a vehicle, the price is adjusted according to the overall condition. I think 
its likely a deduction would be made for the paint damage to the bumper. But for the 
reasons explained I dont think the condition of the wing would have made a difference to the 
overall market value. 
Given this I think a fair overall value would be £4190. This takes account of the fair market 
value of £4220 minus £30 for the paint damage Tesco had deducted which is 50% of the 
retail cost for repairing this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Underwriting Limited should pay Mr B £4190.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman