DRN-2013521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the settlement U K Insurance Limited reached for a 
claim they made for stolen jewellery under their home insurance policy following a burglary. 
A representative has complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs M. 
All reference to UKI in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms home was burgled in July 2017 and a number of items of jewellery were 
stolen. 
Mr and Mrs M made a claim to their insurer, UKI. 
UKI said it would meet the claim to replace the items of jewellery apart from a ladies luxury 
branded watch which it rejected. UKI said would cost it £14,125.75 to replace the agreed 
items. So this is the amount it said it would pay Mr and Mrs M if they wanted a cash 
settlement.
UKI said it didnt have enough proof to include the claim for Mrs Ms stolen watch. But it 
accepted that it had provided a poor service and caused confusion when dealing with the 
claim in relation to the settlement amount and its decision about Mrs Ms watch. For this it 
paid Mr and Mrs M £300 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative brought their complaint to us. He said Mrs M had sent the 
box for the watch to UKI with genuine links inside  which he says UKI lost. He said the links 
would have proven it was a genuine brand of the watch and not a fake. The certificate for the 
watch was stolen with the watch and other jewellery. He wanted UKI to show how it could 
purchase the claimed items at such a reduction  mostly valued at around 50% of the RRP.
Our investigator explained that it isnt unusual for an insurer to obtain favourable rates to 
replace items. And as UKIs offer to settle the claim was in line with the policy, he thought it 
had acted reasonably. But he thought Mrs M could provide no further proof of the watch 
given the circumstances. And her claim for the watch was in keeping with other items that 
had been validated under the claim. So he recommended UKI meet the claim for the watch 
under the single item limit of £4,000 under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative accepted the recommendation to include Mrs Ms watch 
under the claim. But he wants an ombudsman to decide as he doesnt agree with the 
valuation and how UKI has reached the amounts for the remaining jewellery. 
UKI asked the investigator to clarify his recommendation, which he did. UKI hasnt provided 
any further comments. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy with UKI says:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it 
would have cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or;
make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using 
our own suppliers. If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will 
pay the full cost of the item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms representative doesnt agree that UKI can replace the items for 
the sums its given. But as UKI has agreed to settle the claim in line with the policy, I dont 
have anything to show me its acted unreasonably. Its confirmed it can replace the items for 
the sums its quoted. 
UKI said it doesnt have a record of any links enclosed with the watch box. And it provided a 
recording of a call with Mr M in which he explained he had the box left to prove ownership  
but no mention of the links. That doesnt mean I believe one party over the other. But I cant 
conclude that UKI most likely lost the links from the information available. 
UKI accepts that it caused confusion in its handling of the claim for the watches and the 
options to settle the claim. For the distress and inconvenience caused, it paid Mr and Mrs M 
£300 compensation. I think this is a fair sum to reflect the poor service Mr and Mrs M 
received. 
I think Mrs M has provided all that she can in relation to her claim for her watch. Shes 
explained that the authentication certificate was stolen along with the watch. So she doesnt 
have a record of the serial number. She sent the watch box to UKI and provided available 
photos of the watch. And the item is in keeping with the other items claimed for and 
accepted by UKI. So on balance I think its reasonable for UKI to meet the claim for the 
ladies watch under the valuable single article limit which is limited to £4,000 under their 
policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
meet Mrs Ms claim for her stolen watch under the valuable single article limit section of the 
policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman