DRN-4236793
The complaint
Mr S complains about a payment holiday he applied for with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties so I will only summarise those here and 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr S applied for and was granted a three month payment holiday in regard to a loan he had 
with Santander. He did this as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, he says that 
Santander did not tell him that his loan term would be extended as a result or that he would 
still accrue interest during the holiday. He feels like he has been unfairly penalised. 
Santander did not agree it had done anything wrong so Mr S referred the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint so Mr S has asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr S has a similar complaint with this service about another Santander loan. For 
clarity this decision is in respect of the loan reference ending 1.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance from April 2020 in respect of how 
firms should treat customers in financial difficulty due to COVID-19. I note that Mr S applied 
for his payment holiday with Santander in May 2020 so I consider it relevant to take this 
guidance into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable here.
I have not commented on all the submissions of the parties  only those I consider relevant. 
This reflects my role in resolving disputes informally. With that said I consider there to be two 
key aspects to this complaint. One is whether or not Santanders actions in extending the 
loan term and allowing interest to accrue on sums owed during the period of holiday is fair 
and reasonable. And two, whether (before he took out the payment holiday) Mr S was 
reasonably informed by Santander this is what would happen (and if it didnt whether this 
would have changed his decision to take the payment holiday in any event).
Firstly, I have considered if what Santander has done here is fair and reasonable. I note that 
the purpose of the payment holiday was primarily to give Mr S a break from making his 
contractual payments and not to forgive them. So I dont consider it is unreasonable for the 
loan term to have been extended as a result of the payment holiday because Mr S needs to 
make these contractual payments at a later stage. I also dont think this is incompatible with 
the FCA guidance issued in respect of COVID-19 payment holidays.
I dont think Santander has charged Mr S a penalty fee for the payment holiday as he 
appears to believe. But I also note Santander continued to charge interest on the loan 
amount during the payment holiday. However, the continued accrual of interest on sums 
owed under the agreement that remain unpaid is not inconsistent with the guidance the FCA 
issued. 
I have also considered more generally whether there is clear evidence the 3 month payment 
deferral and the resulting implications as to the extended term and accrual of interest would 
obviously have not been in the best interests of Mr S or whether it would be generally 
considered unfair treatment in respect of the requirements of the FCA Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). I dont see persuasive evidence of that in the individual 
circumstances here.
In summary, I am not persuaded Santander acted unreasonably in (as a result of it granting 
a payment holiday) extending the loan term and allowing interest to continue to accrue on 
the loan balance. Therefore, I have turned to whether Santander took reasonable steps to 
inform Mr S this would be the consequence of him taking a payment holiday of this nature.
From what I can see Mr S applied for the payment holiday online. Santander has explained 
its application process at the time and the screens Mr S would have seen in taking out the 
payment holiday which it says clearly explain the situation. Our investigator has sourced the 
archived pages from the time Mr S took out the payment holiday and I can see that before 
the apply button there is a sentence that says Please read the FAQs below [highlighted in 
red] before deciding if you should do this. I consider this reasonably would have drawn Mr S 
to the sections which then explain the nature of the payment holiday and say:
you will still be charged interest on your outstanding balance during the holiday
and
Your loan term will be increased by the length of your payment holiday
So it appears to me that Santander did reasonably inform Mr S of the situation which he is 
unhappy about. I am aware that when presented with this information by this service he says 
he didnt see it. However, I am persuaded that it is more likely than not to have been what 
was presented to him as part of the online process of applying for the payment holiday. I 
have not seen persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise. I also think it is reasonably clear.
In summary, I dont think what Santander has done in applying interest or extending the loan 
term is unfair, nor do I think Santander has misled Mr S about the situation. So while I am 
sorry to hear he is unhappy, I dont consider it fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman