DRN-3025057
The complaint
Mrs D, who is represented by her husband Mr D, complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) offered insufficient compensation on the rejection of a faulty 
car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
It has been agreed by MBFS that the car is faulty such that rejection is the most appropriate 
remedy. For the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm I agree that it the right outcome. This 
leaves the issue of the level of redress. 
This service seeks to put consumers back in the position they would have been had the 
issue not arisen. That means that Mrs Ds deposit of £20,000 should be returned. Quite 
simply if the agreement had not been entered into then the deposit would not have been 
paid and so it should be refunded.
However, I do not consider the monthly payments should be refunded since Mrs D has had 
the use if the car and when it has been in the garage for repairs she has been provided with 
a courtesy car. I appreciate this has not necessarily been the car she would have chosen, 
but nonetheless she has been kept mobile apart from few days. 
That said Mrs Ds experience has been less than satisfactory and some form of redress is 
merited. Our investigator has proposed a 15% reduction in the monthly payments from July 
2020 and I consider that to be fair. I have noted that by December 2020 Mrs D had covered 
some 6,000 miles in the car so it is clear she has been able to make use of it. It is only right 
that she pay for such use and I consider 85% of the monthly sums due is fair. 
She has also had use of the gap insurance and I do not consider that should be refunded by 
MBFS. Most of the additional costs claimed relate to Mr D and as he is not party to the 
agreement these cannot be considered. I also note that some of the issues relate to the 
service levels provided by the dealer. It is a separate entity from BMFS which is the subject 
of this complaint and so I cannot consider any claims against the dealer. 
Nor is it appropriate for me to require MBFS issue an apology. If I did so I consider any 
apology would not be meaningful. This is something MBFS would have to so of its own 
volition. As for the request for assistance with sourcing a replacement car that is not 
something I can ask a finance house to do. Its role is to provide finance and it is not able to 
source cars. Nor do I think it necessary for MBFS to explain why it agreed to rejection. I 
consider it is sufficient that it did so.
Finally, I consider the level of compensation or the trouble and upset suffered by Mrs D of 
£250 is fair and in line with the levels of award this service makes. 
Putting things right
 MBFS should allow rejection and compensate Mrs D as below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay,
collect the car at no cost to Mrs D,
refund the deposit of £20,000 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement,
refund 15% of the monthly payments made from July 2020, when the first fault 
occurred, until the end of the agreement, for loss of use and enjoyment and pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement and 
pay £250 to Mrs D as compensation for the trouble and upset thats been caused due 
to the faulty car supplied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman