DRN-3081121
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs M complain about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc managed their account when 
they were experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs M have held a joint current account with HSBC for several years. They were 
previously managing their finances with little to no problems, but things changed in the last 
seven years when the account was used to fund gambling. 
Mr H and Mrs M explain that Mr H struggled with gambling for a number of years, and this 
started to impact their financial situation. They went from regularly being in credit, to 
hundreds and/or thousands of pounds being spent on gambling daily. And this resulted in 
their account regularly utilising unarranged overdrafts. Theyve also complained that Mr H 
could successfully apply for arranged overdrafts without Mrs Ms consent.
Mr H and Mrs M dont think HSBC provided them with adequate support. In particular, 
theyre unhappy with the time it took HSBC to apply a nil marker to their account that 
prevented it going overdrawn. Theyre also unhappy this nil marker was removed which 
allowed overdraft applications to be approved, and debts to be run up on the account. And 
because of this, they found themselves needing to heavily rely on their children for day-to- 
day living expenses over the years, and particularly when repaying the overdraft. Because of 
HSBCs failure to support them, Mr H and Mrs M asked to be compensated for the money 
theyve lost, and the impact this situation has had on them.
HSBC say they provided support once they were aware of the problems 
Mr H and Mrs M were facing. And the level of support was appropriate for what was 
expected of them at the time. Mr H and Mrs M disagreed with this, so they brought their 
complaint to our service.
Due to the issues involved, our service decided it best that an ombudsman issue a 
provisional decision in the first instance, so the case was passed to me to look into.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 June 2021, and in this I was minded to say Mr H and 
Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. I explained that HSBC ought to have been aware 
gambling transactions were affecting Mr H and Mrs Ms finances from May 2014 due to 
Mrs M calling them and asking for a temporary overdraft to cover essential bills. I also didnt 
consider unarranged or arranged overdrafts should have been allowed on the account after 
this date given the gambling transactions and conversations between HSBC and Mrs M 
indicated they were struggling with their finances.
As I was minded to say HSBC should have done more to support Mr H and Mrs M 
I suggested HSBC: 
reimburse all interest and charges applied to Mr H and Mrs Ms joint account from 
when it went overdrawn in May 2014, to the date they brought their complaint to our 
service;
provide Mr H and Mrs M a breakdown of how the refund of interest and charges has 
been calculated; 
pay £2,500 in recognition of the worry and stress Mr H and Mrs M experienced due 
to HSBCs failure to provide adequate support; and
the amounts above are paid to Mrs Ms sole account as that is what Mr H and Mrs M 
requested to help them manage their finances.
 
HSBC agreed to with my provisional decision but explained their systems could only 
reimburse the interest and charges to the account that was charged  so in this case, Mr H 
and Mrs Ms joint account.
Mr H and Mrs M didnt agree with my provisional decision. The crux of their arguments was 
that my decision didnt go far enough to compensate them for HSBCs mistakes. They were 
also unhappy my decision didnt address HSBCs handling of Mrs Ms sole account. To put 
things right, Mr H and Mrs M asked for:
a refund of the arranged and unarranged overdraft on their joint account totaling 
£23,967.93;
a refund of the overdrawn balances from Mrs M sole account, for the whole period 
the nil marker or block should have been in place, totaling £9,935.33;
refund of fees charges and overdraft interest applied from 15 January 2014 to 
12 October 2015, totaling £668.44;
refund of fees, charges and overdraft interest after the nil marker from 
23 November 2015 to 12 October 2016, totaling £15.25;
refund the arranged overdraft amount of £4,800 plus interest; and
pay compensation of £100,000 for the emotional distress, humiliation, suffering and 
mental pain caused by HSBCs failures.
Ive considered everything both parties have said, alongside the information we already had 
on file. Having done so, my decision remains largely the same, and I wont be asking HSBC 
to do any more than I set out in my provisional decision. I know this isnt the outcome Mr H 
and Mrs M hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Before I set out my findings, I need to explain it wasnt a mistake on my part when I didnt 
mention Mrs Ms sole account  rather those concerns are going to be investigated in a 
separate case. While the issues concerning the joint account and Mrs Ms sole account are 
interlinked  only Mrs M is HSBCs customer in relation to that account, and we cannot 
comment on those issues in this joint complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered everything, Im upholding this complaint. Im aware my redress isnt what 
Mr H and Mrs M asked for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Like my provisional decision, this final decision will address the crux of Mr H and Mrs Ms 
complaint. While I wont explicitly comment on every point raised, I would like to assure them 
I have reviewed and considered everything we received and have on file.
When should HSBC have been aware gambling transactions were affecting Mr H and Mrs 
Ms finances?
Mr H and Mrs M complain they experienced financial difficulties because Mr H had a 
gambling addiction. Despite Mrs M making HSBC aware of this in late 2013, they say HSBC 
didnt take sufficient steps to help them manage their account effectively. HSBC disagree, 
and say they werent made aware of Mr Hs gambling addiction until early 2016.
HSBC no longer have recordings of calls that took place in 2013, and given the time thats 
passed, I dont consider this to be unusual. However, we have been provided with contact 
notes relating to Mr H and Mrs Ms account. These date back to 2013, so Ive used these to 
determine what was more likely to have been discussed, and when.
Having reviewed the contact notes, Ive not seen anything to suggest HSBC were told about 
Mr Hs gambling in 2013. However, the notes do support what HSBC say about Mrs M 
calling them in February 2016 to tell them about this. But Ive also seen notes that show 
Mrs M told HSBC Mr H struggled with gambling in November 2015 when they agreed to put 
a nil marker on the joint account. But whilst I accept late 2015 is the first point at which I can 
say HSBC had definitely been told of Mr Hs gambling, I cant fairly say HSBC wouldnt have 
been aware gambling may have been causing a problem before this date.
Ive seen copies of Mr H and Mrs Ms bank statements dating back to 2012. These show 
Mr H and Mrs Ms account was being used to pay for gambling transactions from April 2013. 
At that time their credit balance was high, and remained high, so there was nothing to 
suggest these transactions were causing any issues for Mr H and Mrs M. But, in 2014 things 
started to change. From January of that year, the frequency of these gambling transactions 
increased quite dramatically, and they exceeded £1,000 most days. This resulted in the 
account first going into an unarranged overdraft in May 2014.
Sums of money were transferred into Mr H and Mrs Ms account to bring it back into credit. 
However, further gambling transactions made their account go overdrawn again in 
June 2014. And in July 2014, Mrs M called HSBC and asked for a temporary overdraft to be 
applied to the joint account as they needed funds to cover essential bills. The application 
wasnt completed as Mr H was unable to complete security checks, so the pattern of 
transferring funds into the account, and going into unarranged overdrafts continued until late 
2016.
The statements have also shown that from December 2014, a significant number of payday 
loans were deposited in Mr H and Mrs Ms joint account. And on occasions, there were 
multiple loans in a given month  yet despite this, the account still utilised the unarranged 
overdraft facility.The information detailed above clearly demonstrates Mr H and Mrs Ms finances had 
markedly deteriorated from mid-2014, and in my view, problem gambling was the primary 
reason. So, while its possible HSBC may not have been contacted about Mr Hs gambling 
habits before November 2015, Im satisfied they had access to enough information to make 
them aware of the problem. It could be argued that July 2014 was when HSBC ought to 
have been aware Mr H and Mrs M were experiencing financial difficulties due to gambling. 
Thats because at that time, Mr H and Mrs M attempted to apply for an overdraft to enable 
them to pay essential bills. But I dont consider thats fair in the circumstances. I say that 
because of the amount of money Mr H and Mrs M had in their account in 2012 and 2013, 
and how quickly this amount reduced due to gambling transactions. So, in light of that, 
I consider HSBC had enough information to identify Mr H and Mrs M may have needed help 
in May 2014, when their account first became overdrawn.
Mr H and Mrs M maintain HSBC were told Mr H was suffering with a gambling problem in 
2013 and believe that is the point support should have been made available to them. But as 
Ive explained, the contact notes (that start from 2013) do not show any calls discussing 
gambling until November 2015. I appreciate their strength of feeling on the matter and want 
to assure them I dont consider theyve been dishonest with their recollection. But I must 
weigh up everything provided by both parties to decide whats most likely to have happened. 
And when reaching a decision, I also need to be fair to both parties. In doing so I dont 
consider its reasonable to ignore or place minimal weight on the contact notes from that 
time. Thats why I havent been persuaded to change my position on using May 2014 as the 
date HSBC ought to have been aware gambling was affecting Mr H and Mrs Ms finances.
Was it reasonable to allow Mr H and Mrs M to have unarranged overdrafts?
As Im satisfied HSBC ought to have known Mr H and Mrs M were in financial difficulties, the 
next thing I had to consider is whether it was reasonable for HSBC to allow Mr H and Mrs M 
to have unarranged overdrafts.
HSBC has maintained its for their customers to decide how they spend their money. They 
also explained any support provided was limited by the relevant legislation and regulation at 
the time  and the expectations on banks has changed considerably over the last six years. 
While I understand the point HSBC has made, having considered the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not satisfied HSBC acted as we would expect when they allowed Mr H and 
Mrs Ms account to go into unarranged overdrafts from May 2014 onwards.
I agree that the legislation and regulation that applied to banks when making lending 
decisions has evolved over the time period this complaint covers. However, despite these 
changes, the spirit of the regulation remained the same. So, throughout the timeframe this 
complaint concerns, HSBC was always obligated to carry out proportionate checks, ensure 
the lending was affordable, that repayments were sustainable for Mr H and Mrs M, and to 
monitor the repayment of the credit. I dont consider those expectations should differ simply 
because this was an unarranged (rather than an arranged) overdraft.
While overdrafts can be a helpful short-term solution, its always worth remembering they 
can become repayable immediately. So, before lending, a bank needs to satisfy itself a 
customer would be able to do so. Had HSBC met its obligations detailed above, they should 
have realised unarranged overdrafts werent suitable for Mr H and Mrs M. I say this because 
it was clear gambling wins and payday loans were frequently being used to keep Mr H and 
Mrs M afloat. These are clear indicators that Mr H and Mrs Ms financial situation was 
unsustainable, and this would - and should have highlighted additional borrowing could 
adversely impact Mr H and Mrs Ms financial situation. In my view, allowing Mr H and Mrs M 
to access funds through an unarranged overdraft was irresponsible.Its clear HSBC were aware of their obligations. This is because the terms and conditions 
that applied to Mr H and Mrs Ms account over the years clearly explained informal 
(unarranged) overdrafts requests are considered before theyre authorised. Im not satisfied 
HSBC did enough to consider the unarranged overdraft requests, and such as I dont agree 
they should have been authorised.
Mr H and Mrs M say other banks were acting more proactively, at that time, to assist 
customers struggling with gambling. Theyve also asked what legislation allowed HSBC to 
do absolutely nothing despite being aware of Mr Hs gambling.
Its not for me to comment on what other banks may have done had Mr H and Mrs M banked 
with them at the time. I can only consider the actions that took place, and that is exactly what 
I addressed in my provisional decision, and again here. I have clearly explained HSBC didnt 
act in line with the relevant regulations and legislation when it authorised the unarranged 
overdrafts from May 2014 onwards. There is little more I can add to what Ive already 
explained regarding this point, however, I cannot agree Ive said HSBC were allowed to do 
nothing. For clarity, my decision is that HSBC should have done more before authorising the 
unarranged overdrafts from May 2014 onwards.
Should HSBC have allowed Mr H to apply for arranged overdrafts?
Between late February 2019 and mid-March 2019, Mr H made nine online applications for 
overdrafts. The first application was for £300, and then the limit increased with each 
application until it reached the amount of £4,800. As these applications were made online in 
respect of a joint account, HSBC didnt obtain Mrs Ms consent.
When considering this point, the first thing I needed to determine is whether the lending was 
affordable for Mr H and Mrs M. To do this, I reviewed the information HSBC obtained during 
the application process.
In the first application for a £300 overdraft, Mr H said he received an income of just over 
£900 a month and that his outgoings were £0. HSBC have said this information, alongside 
the fact they received no other information suggesting Mr H and Mrs M may be a credit risk, 
meant the application was approved. While Ive taken this point on board, I cant say I agree 
this was appropriate.
Firstly, the application saying Mr H and Mrs M had no outgoings should have rang some 
alarm bells. I say this because it would be relatively unlikely for an adult to have no 
outgoings whatsoever  especially when theyre asking to borrow money. So, this alone 
should have prompted HSBC to ask more questions. But if they didnt do this with the first 
application, HSBC certainly should have identified something wasnt quite right with 
subsequent eight applications that provided the same income and expenditure information. 
And if the income and expenditure information was accurate, I consider its unlikely a 
customer would need to increase their overdraft so quickly and drastically over a three-week 
period of time. So again, HSBC should have asked more questions before authorising these 
applications.
HSBC had a significant amount of information that highlighted there was a strong possibility 
Mr H and Mrs M could suffer financial hardship due to Mr Hs gambling. HSBC may argue 
they couldnt have known if Mr H was still suffering with his addiction when he made the 
applications in 2019. But I cant agree with this sentiment because there were multiple 
gambling transactions made from the account around the time of the overdraft applications. 
So, even without the history of the account, there was enough account information for HSBC 
to question whether providing access to borrowing was the right thing for Mr H and Mrs M.But more importantly, the nil marker applied in 2015 should have made it apparent to HSBC 
that there was a conflict between both account holders. This means HSBC would have been 
aware one of the causes of this conflict was gambling. Had HSBC have taken this into 
consideration, they ought to have realised borrowing shouldnt be approved without the 
consent of both account holders. Not only is this a pragmatic way to approach a situation like 
this, HSBCs own terms and conditions say they would need consent from both account 
holders if theyre aware of a conflict. It has been disappointing to see this didnt happen  
especially when previous behaviours strongly suggest Mrs M wouldnt have consented to the 
overdrafts had she known about them at the application stage.
When reaching an outcome, we must consider all the circumstances of the complaint. And 
given the history of the joint account, I dont consider it was appropriate for HSBC to allow 
any of Mr Hs applications for an arranged overdraft on this account to go through without 
scrutinising the financial position (and gaining the consent) of both Mr H and Mrs M. Also, 
Ive not seen anything from HSBC that explains why they didnt think additional checks were 
warranted before authorising the overdraft applications. Without these checks, I cant 
reasonably say the arranged overdrafts were appropriate or wanted by both Mr H and 
Mrs M.
All the information weve been provided persuades me that Mrs M wouldnt have willingly 
given her consent to arranged overdrafts being applied to their joint account if she had been 
asked at the time. So, had HSBC done what wed expect them to do in the circumstances, 
I dont consider the overdrafts would have been applied to the joint account. In addition to 
this, Im not persuaded the overdrafts were suitable given the financial information HSBC 
were provided. So, taking everything into consideration, I cant agree HSBC treated Mr H 
and Mrs M fairly when they approved the overdraft applications.
Did HSBC provide the level of support we would expect? 
There are several ways banks can provide support for their customers, and this isnt limited 
to referring customers to organisations that may be able to help with any problems theyre 
currently facing. Instead, there are pragmatic steps they can take to ensure theyre always 
treating their customers fairly  amongst other things.
From what weve been provided, and what Ive said above, HSBC didnt do enough to 
support Mr H and Mrs M before and after they were explicitly told about Mr Hs gambling.
Ive already commented on where HSBC fell short when authorising the arranged and 
unarranged overdraft applications. So, I wont fully address those points again. But what 
I wanted to touch on was the amount of lending that was able to be approved on Mr H and 
Mrs Ms joint account without the consent of both of them.
Its not unusual for banks to only require the consent of one party to a joint account when 
making some changes, such as applying for an overdraft. And that is supported in the terms 
and conditions that applied to Mr H and Mrs Ms accounts. However, the same terms and 
conditions say HSBC will require the authority from both account holders if theyre notified of 
a dispute.
As mentioned earlier, the contact notes show Mrs M told HSBC about Mr Hs gambling 
addiction in November 2015. So, from this point, HSBC ought to have taken steps to ensure 
both Mr H and Mrs M agreed to any additional borrowing. As this didnt happen, Im not 
satisfied HSBC provided the level of support wed expect  or that their terms and conditions 
said they would provide.Having said that, a nil marker was placed on the joint account in November 2015, and this 
helped prevent unarranged overdrafts. So, HSBC did the right thing in applying this. 
However, things fell short at the end of February 2019 when the marker was removed 
following Mr Hs arranged overdraft applications. And I dont consider it was reasonable for 
this nil marker to be removed without Mrs Ms consent.
In February 2019, Mrs M reached out to HSBC for help because Mr H had started gambling 
again. At this time, she asked to be removed from the account, but HSBC said this couldnt 
be done without Mr Hs consent. I appreciate that in some circumstances its reasonable and 
necessary for both account holders to agree to one of them being removed from the 
account. However, Mrs M was in a difficult situation and it wouldnt have been possible for 
her to get Mr Hs consent at that time.
I cant see that HSBC were fully aware of the extent of the problems Mr H and Mrs M were 
experiencing at the time. So, it was good to see that they made some attempts to help by 
agreeing to block Mr Hs debit card when Mrs M asked. However, these blocks were able to 
be removed by Mr H if he visited a branch, and he did so on a number of occasions.
Mr H and Mrs M have been in a difficult situation for a number of years. And to be fair to 
HSBC, providing support in these situations can come with challenges  particularly given 
the sensitive nature of the issues. That being said, I do consider HSBC had gathered 
enough information over the years to know Mr H and Mrs M needed help, especially when 
Mrs M reached out to them in 2019. So, it was disappointing to see the history of the account 
wasnt fully taken into consideration at this time. And had they done that, HSBC would have 
been in a better position to ask the right questions to ensure they provided an appropriate 
level of support.
Ive seen that in March 2019 a repayment plan was put in place to repay the arranged 
overdraft. HSBC went through an income and expenditure, and it was agreed that Mr Hs 
monthly pension would be used to repay the balance owing.
Mr H and Mrs M adhered to this repayment plan and cleared the overdraft. However, this 
came with challenges as it meant they needed to heavily rely on their children for their day-
to-day living expenses. So, I can see why this would have been very difficult for them.
I also cant ignore what I detailed above about the arranged overdrafts being unsuitable for 
Mr H and Mrs M. Given the information Mrs M had provided in the lead up to setting up the 
repayment plan, I am concerned HSBC didnt review their lending decisions at that time. And 
had they properly done so, they ought to have realised themselves that they played a part in 
creating the situation Mr H and Mrs M found themselves in.
Did HSBC handle Mr H and Mrs Ms subject access request correctly?
In mid-March 2019 Mrs M called HSBC and made a subject access request after finding out 
there was an arranged overdraft on their joint account. And when doing so, she asked for 
information dating back to 2013. Mrs M told HSBC she needed this information because 
shed been making HSBC aware of Mr Hs gambling problem for around seven years, and 
she needed this information so that she could bring a complaint to our service.
Mr H and Mrs M say that when they received the information, the call recordings provided 
only dated back to 2018. This raised concerns for Mr H and Mrs M as they felt HSBC had 
failed to retain sufficient data. So, they made a second subject access request, and HSBC 
provided information they had retained since the first request had been made.Investigating this complaint has meant weve been provided with contact notes, copies of 
letters and call recordings. And given the timeframe that this complaint spans, and the level 
of contact Mr H and Mrs M have had with HSBC, Ive seen that HSBC retained a substantial 
amount of notes and information about the management of their account. So, I cant fairly 
say HSBC havent kept sufficient records of their communication with Mr H and Mrs M.
Having said that, I cant ignore the fact Mr H and Mrs M say they werent sent copies of call 
recordings that pre-date 2018. When addressing Mr H and Mrs Ms complaint about this, 
HSBC explained they only keep call recordings for 12 months. Its not uncommon for 
financial businesses to delete call recordings after that period of time, so I dont consider its 
wholly unreasonable HSBC may have struggled to find recordings that dated as far back as 
2013. But, if that was the case, it would have been helpful if HSBC had explained this when 
they completed the subject access request. Thats because they were aware of the reason 
Mr H and Mrs M requested this information.
I also need to place weight on the fact HSBC were able to provide our service with some call 
recordings that pre-date 2018 when sending us their file. However, it did take some time for 
some of these call recordings to be provided. Like I mentioned above, I dont consider it 
unusual for HSBC to have struggled to find recordings of calls that took place over this long 
period of time. But again, had this been properly explained to Mr H and Mrs M at the earliest 
opportunity, I consider it may have alleviated some of their concerns about HSBCs level of 
record keeping.
When Mr H and Mrs M complained about the subject access request, there were a number 
of calls made between Mrs M and HSBC. And there were occasions when Mrs M asked 
HSBC to call her to discuss the matter. It was clear Mr H and Mrs M were going through a 
difficult time and wanted to resolve matters as a quickly as possible. It was also clear Mr H 
and Mrs M needed a lot of information to enable them to understand the situation they had 
found themselves in. So, when HSBC missed making call backs, this would have had an 
impact on Mr H and Mrs M.
In my provisional decision I said I was pleased to see HSBC had acknowledged the impact 
missed call backs would have had on Mr H and Mrs M, and that HSBC had credited £25 to 
their joint account to recognise this. Mr H and Mrs M say the £25 was offered due to HSBC 
blocking Mrs Ms card, and maintain HSBC caused a great deal on inconvenience and 
confusion when dealing with the subject access requests.
I dont disagree HSBC could have handled the information request better. But I do place 
some weight on the volume of records that needed to be reviewed in order to fulfil this 
request given the information requested dated back to 2013. So, while things could have 
been better, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further to put things right in respect of 
this point. Thats because the overall award Im asking HSBC to pay recognises the impact 
their mistakes had on Mr H and Mrs M.
 
Putting things right
I consider HSBC should have done more to help prevent Mr H and Mrs M from experiencing 
financial difficulties. This is because they had access to enough information that would have 
indicated Mr H or Mrs M were struggling with gambling  before Mrs M discussed this with 
them. And once HSBC were aware of this, I also think they should have done more before 
approving arranged overdrafts on the joint account.Had HSBC taken steps at the right time, I dont consider they could have prevented all the 
financial problems Mr H and Mrs M experienced. However, HSBC could have prevented 
Mr H and Mrs M from frequently utilising arranged and unarranged overdrafts. And had they 
done that, Mr H and Mrs M wouldnt have needed to find funds to repay the overdrafts, or the 
interest and charges applied to them. And its for that reason HSBC should refund the 
interest, fees and charges applied to overdrawn balances from May 2014 onwards.
Mr H and Mrs M have asked to have all overdrafts amounts refunded to them. While I agree 
HSBC didnt do what Id expect, I cant agree its fair for them to repay the overdraft 
balances. Thats because I must place weight on the fact the overdrafts were utilised. 
I appreciate these overdrafts helped fund Mr Hs gambling habits, but that also means they 
helped fund any wins from those gambling transactions too. Having reviewed the bank 
statements from the account, I have seen money was transferred into the joint account from 
gambling companies. I have to place weight on that evidence, and when doing so, I dont 
consider its reasonable not to factor that into the redress I award.
HSBCs delay in supporting Mr H and Mrs M has had a substantial effect on them. Thats 
because theyve lost a substantial amount of money, and this matter had been ongoing for a 
period of around six years before the complaint was brought to our service.
If a customer is facing financial difficulties, we would expect them to let their bank know so 
that adequate support can be made available. Mrs M did exactly this, and she tried to take 
steps to prevent the joint account becoming overdrawn. Im not saying HSBC could and 
should have stopped all gambling transactions from being authorised. But there certainly 
was more HSBC should have done to prevent a debt being run up on the joint account.
The pattern of spending, Mrs M telling HSBC about the gambling, and the nil marker all 
should have alerted HSBC that it may not have been appropriate for arranged overdrafts to 
be authorised without the consent of both Mr H and Mrs M. But nothing was put in place to 
help until Mrs M realised an overdraft had already been authorised  and used.
There has been confusion about whether the nil marker dropped off after a year, or when 
Mr H first applied for an arranged overdraft. But the timing has no bearing on the severity of 
HSBCs mistake in this case. Thats because, in any event, it would have been prudent for 
HSBC to have alerted Mrs M before the nil marker dropped off given that she hadnt asked 
for it to be removed. And in not doing that, Mrs M was placed in a situation where she had 
little to no control over her own finances. This, in turn, meant she was inevitably left 
questioning whether she could truly trust there was a back stop to protect their financial 
position. And given everything that had happened over the years, this would have been an 
extremely distressing situation to find herself in. HSBC have argued they cant tell their 
customers how to spend their money. But in this case, Mr H and Mrs M werent only 
spending their own money  it was HSBCs, and money they were obligated to repay.
Weve been told that when it came to repay the overdraft, Mr H used all his monthly pension 
to do so. This left Mr H and Mrs M needing to live frugally and rely heavily on their children 
for day-to-day living expenses. This would have been incredibly difficult and somewhat 
humiliating for Mr H and Mrs M. But its something they went through in order to clear their 
debt as soon as possible. I appreciate a debt was created due to legitimate spending on the 
account. However, I cannot reasonably say HSBC werent part of the problem as they put 
Mr H and Mrs M in a position where they were able to run up thousands of pounds worth of 
debt. And this happened when HSBC had plenty of information to allow them to probe before 
giving Mr H and Mrs M credit.Mr H and Mrs M say they should be awarded £100,000 in recognition of the impact HSBCs 
mistakes had on them. I agree Mr H and Mrs M have been through an incredibly difficult 
time. I also acknowledge that their financial situation has changed dramatically, and HSBC 
played a part in that. While our service can make awards of that amount, I cant agree that is 
a fair or reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
I have taken on board all the points Mr H and Mrs M have made when asking me to revise 
my decision. However, our differences in opinion here come down to the way we interpret 
the evidence and the weight we place on it. So, while I acknowledge and agree HSBC need 
to do something to put things right, Ive not been persuaded the redress Ive awarded needs 
to be increased to resolve this complaint.
Overall, HSBCs failings exacerbated an already difficult situation. So, to put things right, 
I still consider HSBC should pay Mr H and Mrs M £2,500 in recognition of the distress and 
worry their mistakes have made. This amount covers the concerns raised about the lack of 
support provided by HSBC, and their handling of the subject access requests.
Mr H and Mrs M asked for any redress to be paid to Mrs Ms sole account. This is to so that 
they can more easily control their finances. HSBC have explained their systems arent able 
to refund the interest, charges, or fees to a different account. Given this limitation, I consider 
its reasonable that the interest, charges and fees are refunded to the Mr H and Mrs Ms joint 
account. However, the £2,500 compensation should be paid into Mrs Ms sole account.
Given my explanation above, Im upholding Mr H and Mrs M complaint.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr H and Mrs Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
To put things right, HSBC should:
refund interest, charges and fees applied to Mr H and Mrs Ms joint account from 
when it went overdrawn in May 2014, to them bringing their complaint to our service 
(minus any amounts already refunded). This can be credited to the joint account if 
HSBCs systems cannot credit the amount to Mrs Ms sole account.
Provide Mr H and Mrs M with a breakdown of how the refund of the interest, charges 
and fees has been calculated.
Pay £2,500 in recognition of the worry and stress Mr H and Mrs M experienced due 
to HSBCs failure to provide adequate support and mistakes in handling the subject 
access requests. This should be credited to Mrs Ms sole account as requested.
Interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to the refunds of the interest and 
charges applied to Mr H and Mrs Ms overdrawn balances. This should be calculated from 
the date of loss until the date of settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman