Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
chargecard in 1992. Mr B says the policy was mis-sold to him.
Its been agreed that Allianz Insurance Plc should take responsibility for the complaint. So, 
for clarity, Ill refer to Allianz in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr B says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mr Bs application form for the chargecard. This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mr B wanted to take it out and a space for his name 
and date of birth to be filled in. And the box has been ticked and Mr Bs name and date of 
birth have been filled in.
If Mr B didnt want the PPI I think he couldve left the PPI section blank or questioned it 
before signing the application form. But theres no suggestion he did this. So, based on the 
evidence I have, I think Allianz did make it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mr B chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid 
out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And hes told us he 
didnt have any savings or other means he couldve used to make his repayments if he 
wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Mr B off taking it out.
DRN-1079509My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman