DRN-4184099
The complaint
Miss C says Fairscore Ltd, trading as Updraft, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss C took out three instalment loans from Updraft. A summary of her borrowing follows:
loan taken outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 18/04/2021 4,000 36 158.11 5,662.60
2 12/11/2021 3,000 36 118.58 4,308.50
3 16/07/2022 3,000 36 117.03 4310.21
Miss C says she should have been given three loans concurrently, she was struggling to 
make her repayments. When she told Updraft this it offered a reduced payment plan bit 
didnt accept that the loans were ultimately unaffordable. She has missed payments and it 
has caused her severe stress.
Our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint in part. She said loans 2 and 3 should not have 
been given as Updrafts checks showed they would not be sustainable for Miss C.
Miss C accepted this assessment but Updraft disagreed. It said it affordability assessments 
showed Miss C had enough disposable income to afford each loan. Miss C borrowed to 
repay other debts but as she did not do this she didnt improve her situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Updraft lent to Miss C required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Updraft had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Miss C. In other words, it wasnt enough for Updraft to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Updraft did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Miss C. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Updraft complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Cs 
loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Updraft make fair lending decisions?
did Updraft act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Updraft asked for come information from Miss C before lending to her. It asked for 
her annual income and monthly outgoings. It validated her declared costs against national 
statistics and used the higher figure. For loan 3 Updraft reviewed Miss Cs recent bank 
statements. It also carried out a credit check to understand her existing credit commitments 
and her credit history. From these checks combined Updraft concluded Miss C would have 
monthly disposable income of £876.60, £540.13 and £768.44 respectively at the time of 
loans 1, 2 and 3 and so they were affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate but I am not persuaded each lending decision was 
fair. As the parties now agree that loan 1 was not leant irresponsibly I will focus here on 
loans 2 and 3.
Loan 2
Updrafts checks showed that Miss Cs overall indebtedness had increased significantly 
since she applied for loan 1. As Updraft calculated she was now spending £983.83 a month 
on her credit commitments. This was a high proportion of her income and a level at which I 
think Updraft ought to have realised Miss C would most likely struggle to repay a new loan 
sustainably. And Updraft was obliged to consider this, not just the pounds and pence 
affordability. It argues Miss C borrowed to repay credit card debt. From the available 
evidence I cant be sure if this was at the time of loan 2 or 3, but even assuming it was loan 
2 that wouldnt have reduced her monthly credit spend as Updrafts credit check showed she 
was spending £112 a month on credit card debt then. So I still think it ought to have been 
concerned as such a level of spend on credit is often an indicator of with current or future financial difficulties.
It follows I think Updraft was wrong to give loan 2 to Miss C.
Loan 3
Updraft reviewed Miss Cs bank statements as part of its checks for loan. It could see she 
was persistently reliant on her overdraft facility  and this loan was not taken to clear that 
debt. So I think it should have realised her finances were under pressure, and that she would 
in essence have to borrow to repay using her overdraft facility to fund the repayments. So it 
was not sustainably affordable for her. In addition, this was Miss Cs third loan from Updraft 
in around 15 months so it ought to have seen she was in a cycle of borrowing to repay and 
was simply juggling her debts.
Updraft also argued that this service had not upheld a very similar complaint when the 
customer had not used a loan as intended. But I can only consider the merits of this 
individual case here, and for the reasons set out above I am upholding Miss Cs complaint 
about loans 2 and 3.
I have not seen any evidence Miss C was treated unfairly in any other regard. She was 
unhappy Updraft offered a reduced payment plan as it would impact her credit file, but we 
would expect a lender to explore such options if a customer alerts it to being in financial 
difficulties.
Putting things right
It is right that Miss C should repay the capital she borrowed as she had the benefit of that 
money. But it is unfair she is charged interest and fees on loans that should not have been 
given to her.
So Updraft should:
Refund all the interest and charges on loans 2 and 3. So add up the total Miss C has 
repaid for each loan and deduct the sum from the capital amount of each loan.
If reworking Miss Cs loan accounts results in her having made overpayments these 
should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest, calculated from the date of 
the overpayments until the date of the settlement. *
If reworking Miss Cs loan accounts results in there being remaining capital 
outstanding Updraft must work with Miss to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information form Miss Cs credit file in relation to loans 2 and 3 
once any capital balance outstanding is repaid. 
*HMRC requires Updraft to deduct any tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss C a certificate showing
the deductions if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance it must do so
after the tax deduction.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Cs complaint in part. Fairscore Ltd, trading as Updraft, must put things 
right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman