DRN-1325056
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc ('Co-op') withdrew the overdraft facility on 
his bank account without notice. 
What happened
Mr A had an existing bank account with Co-op, and in July 2018 he applied for, and was 
accepted, for an overdraft facility. In June 2019, Co-op decided to remove Mr A's overdraft, 
so they wrote to him to let him know it would be withdrawn from early July 2019, and he 
would need to repay the overdrawn balance before this date.
The overdraft was removed by Co-op in July 2019, but Mr A didn't clear the overdraft, so he 
started to incur fees and charges. Co-op attempted to call Mr A and sent him letters in 
August 2019 and September 2019 to ask him to clear the overdrawn balance.
In mid-October 2019, Mr A complained to Co-op. He said his overdraft had been withdrawn 
without notice, and that he'd only been made aware when he'd returned to the UK after 
being away for three months and looked at his credit file. He felt he'd been treated unfairly 
as he hadn't been given the opportunity to clear the overdrawn balance before it affected his 
credit file. He also sent them a cheque to clear the outstanding balance.
Co-op didn't uphold the complaint. They said they'd written to Mr A the month before 
his overdraft had been withdrawn, and it had been removed in line with their terms and 
conditions. They also agreed to waive any further charges whilst the cheque was being 
processed. But they didn't think they'd done anything wrong. Mr A didn't agree, so he asked 
this service to look into his complaint.  
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt that Co-op had 
cancelled the overdraft in line with their terms and conditions. She also felt they'd done 
enough to attempt contact with Mr A, and that as he'd accessed his online banking on 
several occasions, he would have been aware his overdraft had been removed.  
Mr A didn't agree. He said as he'd been out of the UK he hadn't received any calls and he 
hadn't been able to access his online banking. He also said he hadn't received the letters 
Co-op had sent and felt they may have gone to the wrong address. 
As an agreement couldn't be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Mr A says that he didn't receive the letters Co-op sent him and raised concerns that they'd 
either been sent to the wrong address, or they hadn't actually been sent at all. However, I've 
seen copies of the letters which were sent to Mr A, and they were addressed with the correct 
house number. I've also seen system notes that confirmed when the letters were sent, and as these match the copies of the letters I've seen, I think it's more likely the letters were sent 
to Mr A when the Co-op said they were.
I also note Mr A feels that these letters should have been sent to him recorded delivery, 
however I haven't seen any evidence that Mr A had previously raised concerns with Co-op 
about his post not being received. So I don't think it's unreasonable these letters weren't sent 
to him by recorded delivery.
I've seen the important information Mr A received from Co-op when he initially received his 
overdraft. It says "This arranged overdraft has no fixed or minimum duration. We'll 
review your overdraft on an annual basis starting from the date we approve your 
application." and "We will normally notify you of any changes to be made one month before 
the end of each twelve month period." It also says "You may be required to repay all 
amounts owed to us in full immediately on our written demand at any time."
I recognise Mr A feels the timescale and notification of the withdrawal was unreasonable as 
he said he didn't get the letters from Co-op. However, looking at the system records from 
Co-op, I haven't seen any evidence that Mr A notified them he would be leaving the country 
for three months. So I can't say that it was unreasonable for Co-op to send the letter 
explaining the overdraft would be removed within a month, or for them to take the action 
they said they would - as they weren't aware of any reason Mr A wouldn't be able to meet 
their request.  
Mr A has told us he feels Co-op had a legal duty to send him notifications via text messages, 
and they should have emailed him to let him know as well. However, Ive seen system 
screenshots from Co-op which show they sent Mr A a text message in early July 2019 to let 
him know he'd exceeded his limit and was overdrawn. I've also seen evidence that the day 
after Co-op said they sent the text message to Mr A, he then logged into his online banking. 
So I think it's likely Mr A did receive the text message from Co-op and this prompted him to 
check his account.
Co-op have also confirmed its not part of their process to send emails to their customers as 
they can access their account balance from mobile or online banking. So I cant say Co-op 
have treated Mr A unfairly as they dont offer this as an option to their customers.
Ive also seen that Mr A had online banking, and evidence he accessed this in early July, 
shortly after the overdraft had been removed, and again in August 2019 and October 2019. 
I've also seen screen shots of the information which would have been visible to Mr A which 
included his overdrawn balance and overdraft facility which showed as £0.
Mr A has told us when he logged in to his online banking he was only able to see a blank 
screen, and couldn't access the above information. However, I've seen Co-op's case notes 
from early August 2019 which show Mr A called them on the same day he'd accessed his 
online banking. So I think its likely he was able to see some information showing his 
overdraft had been withdrawn to prompt him to call them.
Mr A also said that he wasn't aware that his overdraft had been removed until he returned to 
the UK in October 2019. However, I've seen case notes from the above call with Co-op, 
which say that Mr A was unhappy because his overdraft had been withdrawn and this was 
affecting his credit file. The notes say Co-op told Mr A that his overdraft had been removed 
in line with the account terms and conditions and if he wanted, they could discuss 
a repayment plan for him to clear the outstanding balance. Mr A then declined this and said 
he'd raise a subsequent complaint about the impact on his credit file.  When Mr A spoke to one of our investigators in October 2019, he said that he'd received a 
final response letter from Co-op dated September 2019. So I think it's likely this letter was 
sent in response to the phone call with Mr A I've mentioned above. And based on the 
evidence I've seen, I'm persuaded Mr A was aware in early August 2019 after he'd spoken to 
Co-op that his overdraft had been withdrawn, and that he needed to take steps to clear the 
outstanding balance. 
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Mr A, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information hes provided. I understand why Mr A feels strongly about 
what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I dont think 
Co-op have treated him unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman