DRN-3334999
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) took too long to handle 
her claim and declined it unfairly. 
What happened
Mrs J owns a flat above a shop. The shop reported damage to the ceiling and the landlord 
contacted Mrs J as it appeared water had leaked from somewhere and the joists were 
damaged. Mrs J called RSA to advise it. She subsequently told it she thought the shower 
was leaking, which had happened in the past. 
The landlords builder said the floor joists needed to be replaced and provided an estimate of 
£19,700. Mrs J sent this to RSA on 23 September 2020. RSA sent a loss adjuster to inspect 
the damage on 13 October 2020 and subsequently asked a structural engineer for its 
opinion. On 16 December 2020 RSA said most of the damage had occurred before Mrs J 
had bought the flat and that the claim would be referred to its technical team. 
Mrs J says she didnt hear from RSA until 12 February 2021, when it said it hadnt heard 
from the technical team and would raise a complaint about this. Having heard nothing by the 
8 March 2021 Mrs J made her own complaint. She says she was shocked when RSA 
contacted her about this and advised that her claim had been declined as the damage had 
existed before she had bought the property. 
RSA accepted her complaint in part in view of the delays and paid her £400 for the 
inconvenience caused. However, it said it had been correct to decline the claim, but it would 
be in touch about making a settlement offer to cover some internal damage. 
After a month without hearing further Mrs J referred her complaint to our service. She said it 
was unfair for RSA to decline the claim as she didnt know the condition of the joists when 
she bought the property. And the delay in sorting things out was now preventing her from 
selling the property. RSA subsequently paid Mrs J £500 as a gesture of goodwill towards the 
cost of repairs.
Our investigator looked into it, but she decided not to uphold the complaint.
She said RSA hadnt treated Mrs J unfairly in declining the claim as the damage appeared to 
be pre-existing, so this wasnt covered by the policy. She said the offer of £500 towards Mrs 
Js costs was fair given the policy didnt cover the damage. And, it wasnt unreasonable for 
RSA to assess the claim which would take some time, with most delays being due to third 
parties which was beyond RSAs control. This included liaising with Mrs Js previous insurers 
to see if it would consider the claim. It wouldnt as the cause of the leak reported by Mrs J 
(failed sealant in the shower) was specifically excluded by it. She said the £400 
compensation paid for the delays caused by RSA was fair. 
Mrs J said the work had now been completed. But as soon as the shower was used there 
had been a leak. She said shed claimed for this and this time RSA had sent a contractor to 
trace the leak, who rapidly identified several leaks, the worst being from the shower. She 
says RSA should have made similar investigations when she first claimed under the trace 
and access condition of the policy. This would have enabled her to use the shower and put 
her property up for sale nine months earlier. 
As Mrs J doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mrs J, so Ill 
explain why.
Ive carefully considered the expert reports from the loss adjuster and the structural engineer 
as well as the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) of the policy. I dont think RSA has acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. I think it did more than the policy required it to do in making 
the £500 payment as a gesture of goodwill.  
The loss assessors report of 13 October 2020 says the claim should be declined, but RSA 
made further enquires with the structural engineer. Based on its report RSA referred the 
matter to its technical team and subsequently decided the damage wasnt covered by the 
policy. 
The expert reports 
The loss adjuster was advised by Mrs Js son that the shower had leaked in the past and 
damaged the ceiling below. It said there was no damage or current evidence of a leak 
around or underneath Mrs Js shower, where the floor was dry. But it noted cracks in 
adjacent walls consistent with the failure of the joist below. With no access to the joists, it 
said the problem was more likely to do with the age of the property, parts of which were 
around 400 years old or incorrect installation when previously replaced. It concluded as 
there was no current leak the claim should be declined.
The structural engineer was able to examine the condition of the joists from below. It said the 
reason for the structural failure was rot caused by water escaping from the shower located 
above. It said the damage was serious and was very long standing, dating before Mrs J had 
bought the flat more than 11 years previously and: 
the need to undertake structural works arose prior to purchase by Mrs J
But it said it was possible that the damage had become worse due to leaks from the shower 
during Mrs Js ownership. It said RSA might consider: 
a contribution towards the works on the basis that whilst undoubtedly the majority of 
the rot happened prior to purchase by Mrs J, possibly there may or may not have 
been some contribution  caused by escapes of water during the period of 
ownership by Mrs J.
But the report also says:
There has been a continued problem of water escaping through the seal between 
the shower tray and the surrounding panelling within the shower enclosure.
I suspect this has been happening as a result of deflection of the floor construction
under loading (i.e. people/furniture).
Weighing up this evidence I think the damage was of a long-standing nature. Theres no 
evidence the shower was leaking in the recent past when the loss assessor attended. I think 
its more likely than not that any leakage of water contributing to the rotting of the joists during Mrs Js ownership were of a gradual maintenance related type. Rather than from a 
one-off incident such as a burst pipe which suddenly becomes apparent. 
And, if structural repair was already necessary before Mrs J bought the property, I think any 
additional contribution from leaks during her ownership (and certainly since the policy with 
RSA began in April 2020, only a few months before the claim was made), would be 
incidental to the pre-existing issues, which were excluded from the policy. 
This is why RSA suggested Mrs J contact her previous insurer to establish whether it was 
prepared to cover the problem. As more significant damage may have occurred during the 
period it insured the property. Unfortunately for Mrs J, the previous insurer said the likely 
cause of the damage was specifically not covered by its policy.
The policy exclusions
Buildings insurance policies dont usually cover every eventuality. What is and isnt covered 
is set out in the policy T&Cs. RSA declined the claim based on a specific exclusion in the 
T&Cs, which Ill explain below. 
I think the exclusions applying are clearly set out in the T&Cs and they are common in 
insurance of this type, so I dont think they are unreasonable. The T&Cs say that the policy 
doesnt cover gradually occurring problems or maintenance related issues:
wear and tear  damp, decay  mould  or anything that happens gradually over 
a period,
rot, unless it is caused directly by an escape of water incident specifically covered by 
this policy
It continues:
If you dont keep your home and belongings in good condition, you may find that 
damage has been caused by wear and tear or lack of maintenance, or that loss 
happened gradually over time. These arent things your insurance covers.
Whilst I think that these exclusions could be reasonably applied to the damage, RSA has 
cited another in declining Mrs Js claim:
Existing or deliberate damage 
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind:
Occurring or arising from an event, occurring before the insurance period starts,
Based on the expert evidence and the T&Cs I think RSAs decision to decline the claim was 
reasonable. I think the damage was long-standing with structural repairs required before Mrs 
J bought the property. The policy with RSA was only began in April 2020, a few months 
before the claim was made, with no evidence of recent leaks occurring since it had been 
arranged.  As I dont think the damage was covered by the policy, I dont think RSA hasnt 
treated Mrs J unfairly in declining her claim. 
Delays
I think the compensation paid for the delays is fair and is in line with the level of award our 
service would make in the circumstances. Some of the delays werent due to RSA. It was 
waiting for expert reports and liaising with her previous insurance company to establish if it 
would consider the claim. 
Identifying a leak
In respect of the additional points Mrs Js has made saying RSA failed to identify and 
remedy a leak from the shower. When it attended the loss adjuster found no evidence of a leak then. If the repairs Mrs J says were made included replacing the joists, I think its likely 
that the shower would need resealing subsequently.
The structural engineers opinion was that the shower seals may have leaked when the 
shower was being used with the floor flexing due to the failed joists. So, I think its likely that 
without this structural work being undertaken first, tracing any specific leak, and resealing 
the shower would be a short-term remedy at best. And, given the serious structural problems 
present I dont think its reasonable to argue that it was concerns over whether the shower 
had a leak that prevented Mrs J from selling the property at the time. 
As I dont think RSA has acted unfairly in declining the claim and I think the compensation it 
has already paid for delays is reasonable, it neednt do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman