DRN-3196121
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled his fraud claim after he was the victim 
of a scam.  
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, Mr W has explained that in July 2020 he was contacted by an individual 
purporting to be a police officer. Unknown to Mr W at the time, this officer was actually a 
fraudster.
The fraudster told Mr W that his local branch was being investigated and that they needed 
Mr Ws assistance. Mr W was told to attend his branch, not advising anyone that the police 
had contacted him and to withdraw £4,450, which would be collected by a police officer from 
his home. Mr W was told that if any branch staff asked what the funds were for, to tell them it 
was to purchase a car.
While at the branch, Santander said it read a scam script to Mr W and that he advised he 
was withdrawing the money for a car purchase. Mr W does not recall any scam script being 
read to him.
After providing the funds to the scammer, Mr W told his son about the call who thought it 
may be a scam. Mr W contacted Santander that same evening to raise a fraud claim.
Mr W has explained he wasnt very well on the day he attended the branch, that he had 
been in hospital the previous evening and slept poorly. Mr W has also told us that he has a 
mental health disorder which he has taken medication for, for around 20 to 30 years.
Santander investigated Mr Ws fraud claim and initially declined it, as it said Mr W authorised 
the withdrawal. Mr W was unhappy with the outcome and that Santander hadnt done more 
to question him when the withdrawal took place.
Santander maintained its decline of Mr Ws complaint but advised it would review any 
medical evidence Mr W could provide that could demonstrate Mr Ws decision making was 
affected on the day of the scam. This was provided by Mr W and as a result, Santander 
agreed in October to refund the withdrawal Mr W had made.
Mr W didnt accept Santanders outcome so brought the complaint to our service  he felt 
Santander should provide compensation for the impact on his mental health and the time 
taken for Santander to refund him.
One of our investigators considered the case. She thought Santander couldve done more to 
question Mr W when he attended the branch and had it done so, she thought the scam 
wouldve been uncovered. The investigator noted that since the scam took place, Mr Ws 
mental health had deteriorated, and he has been referred for additional mental health 
services. While the investigator acknowledged that Mr Ws distress was also caused by the 
scammers, she also thought Santander couldve reduced the upset caused to Mr W if it had 
prevented the scam from taking place and considered £600 was fair compensation to reflect 
this.
Santander agreed to the compensation amount and to send a written apology to Mr W. Mr W 
didnt agree with the investigator. He said the offer made does not compensate the value of 
his health and was unhappy with the apology letter offered.
As Mr W didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
While Santander has refunded the withdrawal Mr W made for the fraudster, I still need to 
consider whether it acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W when he first made 
the withdrawal, as part of my consideration of whether the compensation awarded is 
appropriate.
Santander has said it read a scam script to Mr W and confirmed the reason for the 
withdrawal with him. As part of the Banking Protocol, financial businesses commit to 
identifying unusual withdrawals, discreetly questioning the customer about the withdrawal 
(while keeping in mind that their customer may have been told that they are helping to catch 
corrupt bank staff having been provided with a cover story) and to take the customer to a 
quiet area for further questions if they have concerns. It recognises that detailed questions 
are often required by bank staff to understand when a customer may be the victim of fraud 
and for customers to realise they have fallen victim. While the Banking Protocol isnt limited 
to elderly or vulnerable customers, crime data analysis has identified that those aged over 
70 are at a greater risk of falling victim to fraud.
In this case, Mr W attended his branch to make the withdrawal, which was notably larger 
than any hed made in the past 12 months. So I think the fraudulent withdrawal was 
suspicious in comparison to Mr Ws normal spending.Mr W was in his 70s and retired when the scam occurred. As Ive explained, this age profile 
is one disproportionately targeted by scammers  which I think meant he was at a greater 
risk of becoming the victim of a scam.
Ive thought about the scam script that Santander says it read to Mr W, but I dont think it 
was sufficiently relevant to Mr Ws circumstances to break the spell the fraudsters had him 
under. Mr W has said he doesnt recall it being read. So I think its fair to conclude it didnt 
have much impact on him.
As Ive explained, the Banking Protocol recognises that banks may need to ask further 
questions in order to identify a customer is at risk of fraud. Santander says it determined that 
Mr W was withdrawing the money for a car but hasnt suggested any follow up questions 
were asked. Had Santander asked further questions about the apparent car purchase I think 
this scam wouldve come to light. I say this because Mr W had not been given any further 
details as part of his cover story  so I dont think it wouldve stood up to more than a basic 
level of enquiry.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander should have identified that Mr W was at risk of financial 
harm and done more to prevent this. Had it asked further questions when Mr W visited the 
branch, I think it couldve stopped the scam from occurring and stopped Mr W making the 
withdrawal. As Ive said, in this case, Santander has already refunded Mr W the loss to the 
fraudster, but this finding is nonetheless important when considering compensation due.
Mr W reported the scam to Santander the evening he fell victim to the scam. Santander were 
also made aware in a follow up call around 10 days later that Mr W had a mental health 
disorder. Santander has advised it wasnt aware of Mr Ws mental health disorder prior to the 
scam. Santander maintained its decline of Mr Ws claim at this point, although did make 
unsuccessful attempts to contact him the following month to request medical evidence  
before refunding Mr W fully in October. Overall I think the process of reimbursement couldve 
been quicker on Santanders part  there were several phone calls with Mr W and his family 
where further information about Mr Ws mental health couldve been requested, before the 
decision to decline his claim was made. I think the delay in reimbursing Mr W would no 
doubt have caused him further distress. Having reviewed Mr Ws statements for the time he 
was out of pocket, Im glad to see he doesnt appear to have been in financial difficulty as a 
result of the loss, the account still holding a positive balance  but nonetheless appreciate 
this wouldve been a significant sum of money to lose and one that wouldve caused him 
worry.
Mr W and his family have explained to us that this scam has sadly had a significant impact 
on Mr Ws mental health  and I can appreciate why Mr W feels that no level of financial 
reimbursement can put that right for him. I do have to consider though that the real culprits 
here are the scammers. Even if Santander had stopped this scam from happening, theres 
no knowing how Mr W wouldve still been impacted upon realisation that hed been tricked 
by this cruel scam.
Its not the role of our service to punish banks when things go wrong  only to consider the 
impact any failings have had on the individual customer and what can be done to put this 
right. In this case, taking everything into consideration, I think the £600 compensation 
recommended by the investigator fairly reflects the distress caused by Santander and is in 
line with the compensation bands documented on our website - so Im not recommending it 
awards anything further.
Ive also considered the apology letter Mr W received from Santander. I understand Mr W 
was unhappy with its contents  but it did provide the apology requested so I wont be asking 
Santander to provide anything further.I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for, but having considered everything as 
a whole, I think the outcome reached by the investigator was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £600 compensation to Mr W, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman