DRN-2978844
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited over the way it has handled and 
didnt pay for his fence and shed damage claim. This is a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P made a claim while he was away from his home. This was because his neighbour had 
notified him that his fence had fallen down. Mr P relayed this detail to Admiral, and he didnt 
specify what he thought had caused the damage at this point. Admirals claims handler 
suggested the damage had been caused by storm and set the claim up on this basis. 
Admiral said if it was storm damage the fence wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Admiral confirmed to Mr P that it would need to have an expert inspect and validate the 
damage so it could deal with the claim. Firstly, Mr P said he was given very short notice and 
couldnt accept the initial visit as he was working. Later a visit was unable to go ahead as Mr 
P was suffering with Covid 19. Mr P also told Admiral that hed carried out some of the 
repairs already and that the damage had actually been caused by vandalism. Mr P provided 
photographs to Admiral of the damage and Admiral declined the claim. It said it had no 
evidence to show the damage had been caused by a malicious act, as required under the 
policy. Admiral said it had attempted to inspect on a number of occasions and hadnt been 
able to. It said it had dealt with any issues raised within a reasonable time frame considering 
the pandemic.
In my provisional decision I said:
When Mr P first notified Admiral of the claim, he was clear that he had no idea what had 
caused the damage. It was Admiral who decided to register the claim as likely storm damage 
due to the conditions in the country at that time. Also, the Admiral claims handler stated 
during the call that storm damage to the fence was excluded under the policy. There was 
also a debate between Admiral and Mr P about emergency cover in relation to the garden. 
Admiral confirmed certain details with Mr P during this call. It said it could set up a storm 
claim for the shed, the excess applicable, the need for Mr P to get two quotes, and the 
options the policy allows Admiral regarding ways it might choose to settle the claim. It was 
clear from listening to the call that Mr P was keen to get on with the work, but Admiral did 
confirm there wasnt anything it could do before certain information had been gathered.
Admiral have provided a timeline of how it saw matters unfold after the claim notification. 
This timeline showed that from the first call Admiral said it emailed the customer and a 
surveyor attempted to call him all on the same day. There was no answer when the surveyor 
rang so he tried again a few days later. This time the surveyor did get Mr P and offered a 
Saturday appointment that Mr P declined. At this stage Admiral say Mr P told it he would 
work something out later in the week.
According to Admiral its surveyor had concerns shortly after this point. In further attempts to 
arrange a visit the surveyor felt Mr P was delaying an inspection, saying he was unavailable, 
but was also having repairs being done at the same time. About a week later Mr P rang 
Admiral to say he didnt want a surveyor to visit as he was now suffering with Covid 19. 
Admiral asked Mr P to send in photographs of the damage. The next day Mr P said he 
couldnt send anything in due to technical difficulties. The following day Mr P and the 
surveyor spoke and a further 2 days later Mr P confirmed he was still unwell and couldnt 
agree to an inspection. A few days after this Admiral said Mr P made contact to complain 
that nothing was happening. Admiral said it felt Mr P was still trying to avoid an inspection so 
to try and progress matters the surveyor reviewed the photos and details on file. At this point 
Admiral said it couldnt pay due to the concerns about the validity of the claim and being 
denied the opportunity to inspect it. Mr P sees this very differently, he felt Admiral was 
unprofessional.
Within the final response Admiral said:
Making a home insurance claim
We may request further information to support your claim such.If you do not provide such 
details when requested, it could mean we do not pay your claim or reduce the amount you 
are able to claim for.
Based on this, I am unable to uphold this aspect of your complaint, as we have no evidence, 
which suggests the damage was caused as a result a malicious act.
I think it was reasonable for Admiral to want to validate the claim. And for it to expect Mr P to 
prove his claim was covered under the policy. Thats what happens in any claim situation. I 
dont think Admiral acted unfairly when it said it hadnt seen suitable evidence. From what 
Ive seen Mr P doesnt appear to have provided anything to show the damage was caused 
by vandalism or malicious act. Without the inspection, or relevant evidence in place of this, I 
dont think Admiral needs to do any more.
Mr P is unhappy that Admiral logged his claim as potential storm damage. However, with the 
weather conditions at the time, and to ensure the claim was considered under the policy, I 
think it was reasonable for Admiral to suggest it was likely to be storm damage. It was also 
clear that if it did turn out to be storm then the fence wouldnt be covered. I think its fair for 
Admiral to be clear and upfront about such possibilities when any customer looks to make a 
claim.
When Mr P later said the damage wasnt storm it was vandalism Admiral reconsidered the 
claim. But to do this it confirmed that a visit was still required. However, Mr P had carried out 
a repair already so the damage couldnt be validated.
In terms of the damage to the shed roof our investigator said if damage by malicious act is 
ruled out then it would be reasonable to consider the damage under storm cover. He said it 
was accepted that storm conditions did occur around the time of the claim and that was how 
Admiral had initially set the claim up. Admiral in response to this said it would be happy to 
accept the claim. But Mr P hadnt allowed it to validate the claim. It stated that several 
attempts were made to inspect, and that Mr P had declined these and avoided calls to set up 
such a visit. Admiral said the only images it had seen showed the shed to be in poor 
condition and if it was to consider the claim it would need better images. Admiral confirmed 
that it reserved the right to make enquiries and at the most basic level this includes 
inspecting. Admiral pointed out that this was especially necessary when it appeared the 
customer was trying to avoid such an inspection. I think its reasonable for Admiral to take 
the same approach to the damaged shed, as it did regarding the fence. I think based on the 
lack of evidence Admiral doesnt need to do anything further.In relation to the time taken by Admiral in dealing with the claim I dont think it delayed the 
claim handling. It did make attempts to arrange an inspection and unfortunately a visit didnt 
take place. So, I think Admiral acted reasonably.
Mr P later raised concerns about a premium increase, but our investigator pointed Mr P back 
to Admiral to check on the reasons for this.
I think at one stage Mr P might have been considering legal proceedings against Admiral. I 
can confirm if Mr P chooses not to accept my decision, he can take such action.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral responded to confirm it had received the provisional decision but had no more to 
add.
Mr P did respond to confirm he was still unhappy with the outcome. He said he felt he did 
everything that had been asked of him regarding the claim. Mr P still thinks Admiral agreed 
to deal with his claim and then back tracked on paying him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points Mr P makes but I dont think hes said anything that requires me to 
change the details as set out in my provisional decision.
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain the provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman