DRN-3426094
The complaint
Mr R complains that Covea Insurance plc declined his pet insurance claim. My references to 
Covea include its agents.
What happened
Mr R took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for his dog on 20 April 2020. Covea became 
the insurer from the 20 April 2021 policy renewal when the previous insurer withdrew from 
the pet insurance market, the relevant policy terms were the same.
In December 2021 Mr R made a claim for treatment his dog received from 10 April 2021 to 
20 November 2021 for atopic dermatitis, an allergic skin condition causing itching which 
affected her eyes and skin. 
Covea declined the claim. It said Mr Rs dogs vet history showed she had the same or 
related symptoms before the policy started and that meant it was a pre-existing condition 
which the policy didnt cover.
Mr R complained to us. He said his dog had a couple of one off instances of allergic 
reactions over the years. He didnt think it fair for Covea to say she had an underlying 
medical condition before he took out the policy as she hadnt been on regular medication 
before. Mr R wants Covea to pay the claim and a compensation payment for his distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator said Covea had fairly declined the claim.
Mr R disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He emphasised that as his vet had 
only recently suggested his dog have daily medication to help her allergies that indicated she 
didnt have a pre-existing condition. And when he took out the policy his dog wasnt showing 
signs of being unwell.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Covea fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. Ill 
explain why.
The policy is clear theres no cover for treatment for a pre-existing condition. The policy 
definition of pre-existing condition includes:
Anillness that first showed clinical signs before your pet's cover started, or
An  illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as 
anillness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
An  illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, incident, illness 
or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the  illness or 
clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pet's body.
Ive seen Mr Rs dogs vet history from to July 2012 to November 2021. 
On 2 September 2013 the vet notes say:
Dermatology Recurrence / flare up of a previous condition id cyst between digits III & 
IV right fore. Try with ab's advise re poss allergies or FB /infection Diagnosis is 
cyst Owner elected to treat symptomatically. 
On 25 August 2016 the vet notes say:
Lumps that are getting bigger. The biggest one (Size of a 5 p coin) is ulcerated. Tx 
with antibiotics and antinflammatories and recheck in 3-4 daysDiagnosis: Lumps in 
the skin, one infected. 
On 30 August 2016 the vet notes say:
Added Notes: Clip and clean around cyst. Some sebaceous and purulent discharge 
came out. Adv to keep the cyst clean and to carry on with ab's. RV in a week time. 
Dermatology Re Assessment Diagnosis: cysts has burst The treatment options 
were discussed with the owner Owner elected to treat symptomatically.
On 27 September 2018 the vet notes say:
Diagnosis: ? conjunctivitis right eye. 
On 9 June 2020 (after the policy was taken out) the vet notes say:
Clinical Notes: Has a very painful and swollen digit on her right hind leg, 
conjunctivitis in both eyes Diagnosis: pad infection/conjunctivitis. 
On 10 April  2021 the treatment which Mr R claimed for started, the vet notes say:
Usually develops conjunctivitis in spring some green discharge from left eye and 
both eyes a bit wippy. some rashes axilar and ingvinal area but o said under control 
with sudocream conjunctivitis in both eyes worse in the left Diagnosis atopic 
dermatitis.
On 30 April 2021 the vet notes say:
Conjunctivitis cleared up, but now eyes gunky and blood shot again, , licking her 
FR paw, erythema and poss yeast problem Diagnosis: 
allergy/pododermatitis/conjunctivitis
Mr Rs dog continued to see the vet through to November 2021 for treatment for the problem 
with her eyes and/or pododermatitis (inflammation of the skin of her paw).
I note that on the claim form the vet put the date of start of illness as 10 April 2021 and from 
the vet notes thats when the atopic dermatitis was diagnosed. But the policy definition of 
pre-existing condition includes conditions that first showed clinical signs before Mr Rs policy 
started or were related to clinical signs Mr Rs dog had before the cover started.
From the evidence in the vet notes I think Covea reasonably understood that the 
dermatological and eye problems Mr Rs dog had before the policy started were more likely 
than not clinical signs of atopic dermatitis or at least related to that condition. Before the policy started she was seen by the vet for the same/very similar symptoms to the claim 
symptoms.
Mr R says as his dog hadnt been prescribed regular medication before the policy started 
she couldnt have had an underlying medical condition and she had no symptoms when he 
took out the policy. But she was prescribed medication each time the vet saw her before the 
policy started and the vet notes of 2013 and 2016 say Mr R wanted to treat symptomatically 
which is treatment that eases the symptoms without addressing the basic cause of the 
disease.
Also, the policy definition of pre-existing condition (which isnt an unusual definition to other 
pet insurance policies) refers to any clinical signs that occurred before the policy started, not 
that Mr Rs dog had to be on medication for those symptoms. It also doesnt make a 
difference to my decision that at the time Mr R bought the policy his dog wasnt showing 
signs of being unwell. The issue is that she had previously shown and been treated by a vet 
for the same/related clinical signs.
On the evidence I have I think Covea acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim on 
the basis that the claim was for a pre-existing condition.
I note Mr R says he had to chase Covea for a response to his complaint and it didnt do so in 
the eight weeks it had to respond under the relevant rules. But as he could have complained 
to us after that period even without Coveas response he wasnt disadvantaged in making a 
complaint to us. And as I think Covea acted fairly in declining the claim Ive no basis to say it 
has to pay Mr R compensation for any distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman