DRN-2045687
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance (Santander) was irresponsible when it agreed a conditional sale agreement for him 
in August 2018. 
Mr I has brought his complaint to this service via a representative but for simplicity I will refer 
to him throughout.
 
What happened
Mr I was granted a conditional sale agreement for a car with Santander, via an intermediary. 
Mr I would own the car once the finance had been repaid and in the meantime he was, in 
essence, paying for the use of it. 
The cash price of the car was £15,6391. Santander agreed a finance agreement for Mr I for 
the full amount which, plus £3,723 interest and fees, came to £19,362. This was to be repaid 
over 48 instalments of £297, with an optional final payment of £5,121 if he wished to 
purchase the car. 
I understand that Mr I made 12 payments until August 2019 and informed Santander in 
September that hed lost his job. He said that he shouldnt have been given the loan 
because he was too young and didnt know what he was entering into. Mr I also says that he 
had been employed for only six months on a zero hours contract when Santander agreed to 
lend to him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Is complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr I 
disagreed and asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Is complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for him and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come to 
this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Santander lent to Mr I. Its 
rules and guidance obliged Santander to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Santander needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
1 All figures rounded to the nearest pound for simplicity. 
CONC 5.3.1(G) stated that
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow further to 
meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G-6) or 
without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG2 4.3).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an 
appropriate assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The 
FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit 
being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation, amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the borrower. In other words the assessment needs to be 
borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its money, 
but of the risk to the borrower of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences as a result of the decision to lend. 
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the borrower. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an 
extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Is case, I have considered the 
following questions:
- did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Is finance application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
2 The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled Irresponsible Lending Guidance 
which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.- did Santander make a fair lending decision?
- did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Santander says it asked Mr I about his income and checked his credit file. It doesnt have the 
credit file results but it says he had little debt and it provided copies of three of Mr Is weekly 
payslips. Mr I had told Santander on his application that he was living with his parents and 
had been in his job for six months. Santander said Mr I would have been able to afford the 
loan repayments and that it didnt have any grounds not to accept his application. 
Given Mr Is circumstances, it may have been the case that Santander was correct to 
conclude he would have been able to afford the loan, but I cant say that Santander took 
reasonable and proportionate steps here to assess the affordability of its loan for Mr I. Mr I 
would need to pay almost a quarter of his monthly income for four years to meet his 
repayments, and Santander was required to take reasonable steps to check Mr I could do so 
in a sustainable manner, in other words while meeting his usual living costs and without 
having to borrow from elsewhere or go without. Santander didnt know what Mr Is usual 
living costs were and I cant see that it sought that information. 
Mr I has provided his bank statements. To be clear, Im not suggesting that Santander 
should have looked at these but I think these are a reasonable proxy for the information the 
lender would likely have found out, had it gone further in its affordability checks. I can see 
from these that Mr Is income for the months of May to August of 2018 was usually around 
£1,400, that he wasnt repaying any debt and seemed to have minimal living costs. Mr I 
confirmed that he didnt have a lot of financial responsibilities at that time beyond paying rent 
of £200 a month and his phone and travel costs came to less than £200. 
I think Santander would have found the loan to be affordable for Mr I, had it looked further 
into his finances, and I havent seen anything that I think would have suggested that the 
repayments wouldnt be sustainable for him.
I appreciate that Mr I feels very strongly that Santander shouldnt have agreed to lend to him 
because of his age and also because he was working as a contractor without guaranteed 
hours of work. However, Mr I told Santander that hed been employed for six months and his 
payslips show that his hours were full-time, his income was regular and hed been working 
since at least April 2018. And, unless Santander suspected, or ought to have reasonably 
suspected, that Mr I was compromised in his capacity to make financial decisions, it couldnt 
reasonably decline his loan on the basis of his age. 
Altogether, I dont think Santander was irresponsible or unfair to lend on this occasion. And I 
havent seen anything which makes me think the lender acted unfairly in any other way. 
Santander says it didnt know Mr I had lost his job until he contacted them to ask for a 
settlement figure in early September 2019. I understand the loan was settled in full later that 
month.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I am not upholding Mr Is complaint against Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance and so dont require it to pay 
him compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Michelle BoundyOmbudsman