DRN-2853641
The complaint
Mr C complained that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat was irresponsible to lend 
him money he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr C took out loans with Cashfloat as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 17/11/2017 28/02/2018 3 £300.00 £160.97
2 28/02/2018 03/04/2018 2 £200.00 £136.23
3 05/04/2018 08/02/2019 4 £500.00 £195.90
When Mr C complained to Cashfloat it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong but it 
offered to refund £50 to Mr C as a goodwill gesture in full and final settlement of his 
complaint. 
Mr C didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and he brought his complaint to 
us.
Our adjudicator felt that he hadnt seen enough to say Cashfloat had provided loan 1 
unfairly, but he said loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been lent given that the checks Cashfloat 
did for loan 2 showed that Mr C was having problems managing his money. He said 
Cashfloat saw that Mr C already had at least four open short term loans with other lenders 
and ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr C would be able to sustainably repay loan 2  
or any further loans.
Our adjudicator set out the steps he said Cashfloat should take to put things right for Mr C. 
This appeared to include paying the gesture of goodwill Cashfloat had offered alongside the 
normal redress we generally require a lender to pay in these circumstances. 
Cashfloat disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said:
as long as the loans are affordable and sustainable having other outstanding credit 
should not be an issue. The information from Mr C and the credit reference agency 
demonstrated that his lending with Cashfloat was both affordable and sustainable
Mr C was in the very early stages of a lending relationship with Cashfloat and, at the 
point of lending all 3 loans, there was nothing that should have given concern to the 
underwriters 
Mr C repaid his first loan on time and his second loan earlier than scheduled
he had declared adequate disposable income to repay his loans
Mr C had been employed by the same company for several years, which 
demonstrates stability and the likelihood of his income reducing during this period 
was minimal
Mr C was living with his parents which meant he had minimal non-discretionary 
outgoings.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Cs complaint.Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator about loan 1. Ive looked at the information 
Cashfloat recorded for Mr C, including income and expenditure details from the time and the 
checks it carried out. I agree that there isnt enough to say Cashfloat shouldnt have provided 
this loan. And as it seems Mr C hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators 
recommendation not to uphold his first loan, I dont think that I need to say more about it. 
But whilst it might also have looked like Mr C would be able to make the monthly repayments 
out of his disposable income for loan 2, I dont think that was borne out by what Cashfloat 
saw in its credit checks for this loan.
Looking at the information Cashfloat had gathered before agreeing loan 2, I think its fair to 
say that Cashfloat could see that Mr C had an established record of taking out short term 
loans and its credit checks showed that Mr C had at least four other short term high cost 
loans outstanding when he asked to borrow this loan from Cashfloat. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide short term financial help in the event of 
temporary money problems. So I think the information Cashfloat saw shouldve made 
Cashfloat realise that it looked like Mr C was having serious problems managing his money. 
Ive carefully considered what Cashfloat has said about this. Im not suggesting that having 
other outstanding credit is necessarily a bar to taking out a loan. And I appreciate that it isnt 
unusual for borrowers of this type of loan to have other credit on their record and sometimes 
an impaired credit history, as Mr C did. But I think Cashfloat shouldve realised that having 
multiple other short term loans outstanding when he applied for loan 2 suggested that Mr C 
was in financial difficulty and he had become over-reliant on using this sort of borrowing to 
supplement his income. 
What Mr C told Cashfloat about his financial situation and living arrangements looked to be 
seriously at odds with what Cashfloat could see on its credit checks. I think that the credit 
information it obtained should reasonably have led Cashfloat to the conclusion that the 
information Mr C had provided about his finances was unreliable and that it was likely that he 
was having serious problems managing his money. I dont think it was reasonable for 
Cashfloat to conclude that it was likely that Mr C would be able to repay this loan  or any 
further lending - in a sustainable way. 
Mr Cs repayment record doesnt mean he repaid the money he owed in a sustainable way. 
And even if Cashfloat declined other loan applications made by Mr C this doesn't mean that 
loans 2 and 3 were fairly provided and affordable. For the reasons I've explained, I dont 
think Cashfloat shouldve granted this loan or any further loan to Mr C and so, as things 
stand, Im planning on upholding his complaint about loans 2 and 3.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Cashfloat acted towards Mr C in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not planning to award any additional redress. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr C confirmed that he was happy with what Id said in my provisional decision. 
Ive heard nothing further from Cashfloat and the deadline for responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Our normal approach to redress is intended to put Mr C, as far as possible, in the position 
he wouldve been in had he not taken loans 2 and 3. But theyve been spent. So I think it is 
fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed on loans 2 
and 3, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest loans that 
shouldnt have been provided to him. So I think it is fair and reasonable for Cashfloat to 
refund everything Mr C has paid over and above the principal amount that he borrowed, 
with interest. 
It seems clear to me that Cashfloats goodwill offer was expressly intended as an alternative 
way to resolve the complaint swiftly and without involving a formal ombudsman decision. As 
that hasnt happened, I dont think in these circumstances that it is fair and reasonable to 
require Cashfloat to pay redress over and above what Ive set out.
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr C, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat should: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2 and 3, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr C the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".D. Remove from Mr Cs credit file any adverse entries for loans 2 and 3 recorded by 
Cashfloat.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat to take the steps 
I've set out above to put things right for Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman