DRN-3332254
The complaint
Ms A complains Nutmeg Savings and Investments Limited (Nutmeg) transferred her whole 
ISA investment in error. In correcting its mistake, she says it has failed to put her back in the 
position she would otherwise have been in and doesnt feel the offer for trouble and upset 
reflects the distress this matter has caused her.
What happened
Ms A holds an ISA Investment with Nutmeg. She instructed it to re-direct her monthly 
contribution to an alternative provider.
Nutmeg received two instructions from the third-party provider and instead of checking which 
instruction was correct proceeded to transfer the whole fund, rather than redirect the monthly 
contribution.
Ms A spotted the error quickly and complained to Nutmeg. It apologised for its mistake and 
corrected its error, returned the funds and calculated any loss to Ms A.  It paid £738 for 
missed market movement, £49.29 for the cost of buying and selling and £100 for the trouble 
and upset this matter had caused.
Ms A was dissatisfied with the redress offered by Nutmeg. It calculated the loss between 19 
July 2021 (when the funds were transferred away) and 9 August (when they were returned). 
But because the funds were not invested immediately, Ms A asks for the refund to be 
calculated up until the date they were reinvested. Because that hasnt happened Ms A feels 
the error has not put her back in the position, she would otherwise have been in.
An investigator looked into things for Ms A. After looking carefully at all the information, she 
felt the redress offered by Nutmeg was fair and reasonable and she didnt ask it to do 
anything further.
Ms A disagreed and asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In this case, there is no dispute that an error was made, which has since been corrected. 
The issue is whether the redress offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Ms A spotted this error quickly and brought this to its attention on 4 August and Nutmeg had 
the funds back on 6 August 2021. So, I think it acted quickly to redress the situation.
But when the funds were brought back it sent a message on 6 August that read:
We received a deposit to your account, but we cant invest it for you until you transfer it to 
the pot you want it invested in. Just follow the steps on your homepage on desktop or tablet. 
Once youve allocated your money to a pot, well invest it on the next trade cycle.
The next trade cycle was 9 August, so this accounts for the period of time Nutmeg have 
used to calculate the missed opportunity.
Ms A has said she didnt see why she should have to take any action, it seemed to her as 
though she was having to correct Nutmegs error. Whilst I understand why she may have felt 
aggrieved, the old investment pot had been closed and so a new one needed to be opened 
by Ms A.
I can also see Nutmeg followed up with a further instruction on 10 August 2021 on how to 
set up the investment pot and I have also taken into account Ms A had done this previously 
and so had some knowledge of the system already.
On balance I think the loss calculation between 19 July and 9 August is fair and I cant fairly 
hold Nutmeg responsible for any losses for not reinvesting when it wasnt in a position to do 
so until Ms A had selected her investment pot.
I understand Ms A thinks the level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience is 
disproportionate to the fees she has paid since opening the ISA. Ive not been provided with 
anything to suggest these fees havent been applied correctly and so ought to be refunded.
If they hadnt, then this would be a financial loss Id need to consider, and it would be 
separate from any distress and inconvenience payment. 
As such, I dont think the fees paid by Ms A is relevant to any award for distress and 
inconvenience I may recommend. That said, I dont underplay the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused Ms A. But Its fair to say the awards this service makes for trouble and 
upset are relatively modest, again reflecting the fact this is a free service and alternative to 
the courts. Because Nutmeg acted quickly to correct it error and minimise the impact on Ms 
A, I find £100 to be reasonable compensation and so Im not going to ask it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman