DRN-1044952
The complaint
Mrs O complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI. It was taken out during a telephone call in 
July 2004, some four months after Mrs Os card account was opened.
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited sold this policy, but St Andrews has accepted 
responsibility for the sale. To make things easier Ive referred to St Andrews throughout my 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs O disagrees with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Ive seen a copy of the credit card agreement which Mrs O signed in March 2004. On this 
agreement it states; You have requested: No Repayments Cover. So its clear that Mrs O 
was aware that the PPI was optional and that she didnt need to take it to get her credit card.
St Andrews has provided a copy of its computer records which show that the PPI was 
subsequently sold to Mrs O in a phone call. It doesnt still have a recording of this call, so I 
cant be sure all that was discussed with Mrs O. But I think its most likely that she did agree 
to take the PPI policy out during this call, knowing that she could choose not to do so. Ive 
also seen a copy of a letter St Andrews sent to Mrs O shortly after this call thanking her for 
applying for PPI. And I think Mrs O would have been likely to query with St Andrews why 
shed been sent the letter if she hadnt already agreed to take this cover.
St Andrews says this was an advised sale. This means that it needed to ensure that the 
policy was suitable for Mrs O. With no call recording, I dont know how it did this. But from 
what I know of her circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have 
been suitable. I say this because:
Mrs O appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mrs O says that she didnt need the cover the policy provided because she was 
eligible for generous sick pay from her employer. She also says that she had some savings she could have used to make her card repayments, although she cant now 
recall the amount of these at the time of this sale. But Mrs O appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. And the policy would have paid out in addition to any other means 
she might have had available. If shed been unable to work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid off ten per cent of the outstanding 
balance on her card account for up to twelve months. So I think she would still have 
valued the extra financial security which the policy gave her if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs O. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have cancelled the cover if it no longer met her needs.
 
St Andrews also needed to give Mrs O enough information about the policy for her to decide 
whether she wanted to take it. I think its likely that the information she was given could have 
been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for her, I dont think better information would have changed her mind about taking 
it. I think shed still have thought the policy gave her useful protection at an affordable cost.
So I dont think that Mrs O has lost out by anything that St Andrews may have done wrong 
when it sold her this PPI policy.
Ive thought about what Mrs O has said in response to our adjudicators initial assessment of 
her complaint. But these points havent changed my mind about not upholding it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman