DRN-2542622
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Pinnacle Insurance Plc has declined her pet insurance claim relating 
to dental treatment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy terms and conditions say that the cost of dental treatment will be covered 
provided its due to an accidental injury or illness and provided the pet had a dental 
examination carried out by a vet in the 12 months before the symptoms of the 
accidental injury or illness were first noticed. But Miss Cs pet hadnt had an 
examination in the 12 months prior to the treatment, which was in July 2020. So 
Pinnacle has acted in line with the policy in declining the claim, and I consider these 
terms to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
Miss C said shed adopted her pet in May 2019 so shed assumed the annual check-
up would be a year on. But there isnt anything to suggest thered been a check-up 
just prior to the adoption. Instead, notes suggest the last check-up was in 2018. And I 
dont think its fair to ask Pinnacle to reconsider paying the claim based on Miss Cs 
assumption. 
Miss C said that Covid-19 had meant that she couldnt take her pet to the vet for non-
emergency treatment. But in an email to the vet in July 2020, she acknowledged that 
shed missed the pets booster jabs and check-up in November 2019. This was 
because the pet is semi-feral so shed been unable to trap him. I recognise that, with 
the pets semi-feral nature, it must be challenging to take him to the vet for 
appointments. And I also recognise that there may have been some difficulty in 
visiting the vet without an emergency from around March 2020 until the appointment 
in July 2020. But I think there wouldve been sufficient opportunity between 
November 2019  when Miss C was aware of a need to visit the vet  and March 
2020 to take him. 
So, all things considered, I dont think Covid-19 was the cause of the delayed 
appointment and I conclude that Pinnacle has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with 
its terms and conditions in declining this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman