DRN-4117801
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr L says that when he switched accounts, he was left with an overdraft of £45 in his Monzo 
account. He says that due to various health conditions he wasnt as responsive as he could 
have been about the debt, but he says he replied to an email from Monzo that should have 
prevented a default being applied. Mr L clarifies that he received an email on 7 November 
2022 at 4.03pm requesting a repayment proposal by the next day and responded 15 minutes 
later. He says Monzo said it had no record of his reply and so defaulted the account on 9 
November 2022. Mr L said the situation left him feeling depressed, anxious and frustrated.
Monzo says it asked Mr L to contact it with a repayment plan by 8 November 2022 in order 
to avoid the default. It says it did not receive an email from Mr L on 7 November 2022 and, 
as the last communication it received was on 22 September 2022, it did nothing wrong by 
applying the default when it did.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld as she was satisfied Mr L 
had responded to Monzo in time to prevent the default. She recommended that Monzo 
should remove the default, pay Mr L £100 and discuss a repayment plan for the debt. 
Monzo responded to say, in summary, that it was unfair to be held liable for something it did 
not receive, especially as Mr L had multiple opportunities to respond prior to 7 November 
2022. It offered to credit Mr Ls account with the £45 needed to bring the balance to zero but 
would not remove the default as it was correctly added.
I note that Monzo credited Mr Ls account with £45 in June 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must make a decision 
based on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened.
In this case I have seen evidence to show that Mr L sent an email to Monzo on 7 November 
2022 in response to the one he received about preventing a default on his account. Im 
satisfied this email met the criteria required both in terms of timing and the repayment 
proposal therein.
I dont doubt Monzo when it says it has no record of the email, but I note that, initially, Monzo 
also couldnt locate the email it had sent to Mr L on 7 November 2022. Its notes say:
On the 9th November, we received an email from the customerstating that we had 
applied a default incorrectly and that we told them to get in touch by the 8th November, 
however we have been unable to locate where this was said. We also cannot locate the 
email the customer sent to us on the 7th November.
Furthermore, Monzo has made the point that even if it had received Mr Ls response on 7 
November this may not have been sufficient to prevent the default given the processes it still 
needed to follow. Im not satisfied that that is a reasonable argument given the email Mr L 
received says You can avoid this happening if you get in touch before 8 November 2022 
and make a plan to repay what you owe. You dont need to pay back everything in one go if 
itll put you under strain, and we can look at dierent repayment plans so its easier for you to 
manage. But to prevent the default, you need to reply to this message before 8 November 
2022 and let us know more about your situation.
So I find it more likely than not that Mr L sent the email to Monzo on 7 November 2022 and, 
although Monzo says it didnt receive it, Im satisfied that, had it done so, it would have been 
sufficient to prevent the default being applied.
As such, I dont consider it fair that Mr Ls credit file should be adversely affected by this 
default for six years and so it would be reasonable for Monzo to remove it. I also find £100 to 
be fair compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delay in doing so, although I note 
Monzo has already credited Mr Ls account with £45.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should:
Remove the default from Mr Ls account;
Pay him a further £55 for the ongoing distress this has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman