DRN-3963036
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd has delayed and declined his water damage claim 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D made a claim after finding a leak coming from a radiator. QIC arranged for a surveyor 
to inspect and validate the claim. The claim was accepted, and a repairer sent to work out 
the claim costs. As the claim costs worked out quite high QIC organised another surveyor to 
review the details and this time the claim was declined. Unhappy with this Mr D brought his 
claim to this service.
Our investigator upheld the claim. She said the initial surveyor clearly reported the water 
damage. This was backed up by the plumbers report confirming the radiator leak. There 
was further evidence from Mr Ds plasterer and as the heating system had been recently 
installed the water coming from it was shown to be clear by Mr D. All of this evidence 
undermined QICs second surveyors stance that the damage would have shown discoloured 
staining of the paintwork and plaster. Our investigator said QIC should consider the claim in 
line with the policy terms.
QIC didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
In my provisional decisions, I said:
I think its important to start with the expert evidence provided to Mr D.
Mr Ds plumber, Ill refer to as J said:
I attended Mr Ds property after a report of a leak coming through the ceiling. On attendance 
I traced the leak to a leaking radiator valve in the bedroom above, I drained the central 
heating system down and replaced the faulty valve.
After replacing the valve, I put a chemical inhibitor into the heating system to protect against 
corrosion and filled the system back up.
To me that detail appears clear. Mr D did have a leak at his home, and the plumber is clear 
about where the leak started.
Mr Ds plasterer, Ill refer to as M said:
On my inspection at the property It was evident there were signs of water damage to the 
ceilings and various walls.
The previous water leak caused corrosion to the existing plaster causing the plaster to shrink 
and crack.
If the ceilings were plasterboard then the signs of damage would be very different, there 
would have been water stains in areas or sagging were the board has dropped lower than 
the ceiling joist.
In this case the ceiling is the original lath and plaster causing the damage as stated above. 
Through my plastering career I have analysed this situation many times over and I can 
guarantee water was the main factor in causing the extent of damage.
I think M is also very clear about what has caused the damage.
QIC said in its final response:
Regretfully, during the site visit by our in-house Surveyor, he concluded that the damage is 
not the result of the event that you have notified us about and he is unable to recommend 
that your claim is covered. This was QICs second survey and refuted the findings of its own 
original surveyor. The original inspection had been in May and this follow up was in 
September.
This second report went on to say, there is no evidence of any water damage or staining to 
the walls, ceiling and floors in the study or hallway that you would expect from a leaking 
radiator".
The second surveyor went on the water within a central heating system is usually heavily 
discoloured due to magnetite which is the radiators rusting and breaking down internally. 
QIC said there was no sign of water damage consistent with a radiator leak.
QIC said the wooden floor in the study showed no sign of any water damage. It said the 
bedroom carpet where the radiator valve leaked shows no sign of damage. It followed up 
saying the ceiling and wall plaster cracks werent consistent with the claim. QIC said even 
though Mr D had told it he had cleaned up the floor it would still show some signs of minor 
damage.
The original surveyor said the claim was for the study and the hallway. Most importantly the 
original surveyor who visited a little while after the damage first occurred said there was 
clear visible damage. The study has been affected by the alleged escape of water. The 
ceiling and coving is evidently cracked and required removal and renewal. The floor is 
undamaged.
This surveyor also referred to the hall walls and ceiling having a distinctive crack due to the 
alleged escape of water. And said the ceiling would need to come down.
The only thing the two QIC surveyors appear to agree on is that there was no damage to the 
study floor. But Mr D had already confirmed that he had cleaned this up at the time of the 
incident. Im unclear if Mr D is claiming for the floor based on this.
For one surveyor to say there are clear signs of damage and the other to say there is no 
signs of damage is rather baffling. Especially when they both work for the same company. 
But to me the additional evidence provided by Mr D is persuasive. Its clear that the plumber 
and the plasterer have supported Mr Ds position and back up what was said by the first 
surveyor. Mr D has said that it seemed the second surveyors job was just to decline claims. 
I can see why he would think this.
So, based on this I think the agreed damage by everyone apart from the second in-house 
surveyor should be dealt with as part of the claim. I think that includes the damage to the 
hallway and study ceiling and walls (and appears to exclude the study floor).What Im not clear on and so I will take further evidence on are the landing, the stair and 
bedroom carpet, the computer, and the chandelier. Mr D said the repairer had added the 
cost of the landing damage to the hall part of the claim. But I havent seen enough comment 
on this through the survey reports to know. QIC said this was a separate incident but would 
require decoration as it is a continuation of the hallway, I dont think it was clear that it 
accepted this. If this work is needed to deal with the damaged area, then QIC should include 
it  but Im willing to hear more evidence on this from both sides.
Mr D had also referred to his cleaning and drying costs but Im not clear on what has or 
hasnt been provided or agreed in relation to these costs. Ill take further evidence from both 
parties on this point.
Regarding the kitchen the surveyor accepted there was water damage to base end panel 
units but the impression given was that the kitchen units werent included as part of this 
claim. Mr D has now said he intended to make a claim for the kitchen damage. The details of 
this claim such as photos havent been sent to QIC, but Mr D doesnt wish to miss the 
opportunity to claim. As thats not been claimed for yet it cant be considered as part of this 
complaint. Mr D will need to claim for this directly with QIC as a further or new claim.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr D responded both times and his main points were:
Bedroom carpet  this was only wet where the pipe beneath the leaking valve had touched 
the carpet. Mr D said the water ran down the pipe onto the underside of the floor to the 
ceiling plaster and then through the ceiling into the hallway and study below. He said the 
carpet was wet just in this small area. He said it dried out fairly quickly and is not a problem. 
So, in my second provisional decision I confirmed Mr D wasnt claiming for the floor.
Landing and stairs  the type of plaster and decoration used in the hallway also went up the 
stairway and landing. Mr D said the QIC surveyor pointed out it wouldnt be possible to do 
the hallway plaster without the landing and stairs. In my second provisional decision I 
accepted Mr Ds comments regarding the landing and stairs are reasonable so QIC should 
add these areas to the claim settlement.
Chandelier  Mr D said as this was in the study it was damaged by the water. He said he 
had kept it and it could be examined at any time. Mr D felt there was photo and video 
evidence to support this too and that QIC just wouldnt accept it. In my second provisional 
decision I said there was no reason to doubt what Mr D has said and QIC should include this 
item in the claim settlement.
Cleaning and drying costs  Mr D said these costs hadnt been discussed. Mr D had 
expected the second surveyor to deal with this and didnt seem to really deal with anything. 
Later the second surveyor called to decline the claim without providing any detail. And since 
then just wont engage further. So, in my second provisional decision I said based on all of 
the evidence I said QIC should include the cleaning and drying costs in the claim settlement.
Responses to my second provisional decision
To my second provisional decision Mr Ds main points were that it didnt feel very fair. He 
said QIC were getting more time. Mr D feels QIC have been given every opportunity by 
everyone concerned. Mr D feels that QIC need to act and he made every attempt to engage 
with QIC during the claim.Mr D asked if this service could fine QIC for the lack of action. Mr D also pointed out he had 
to repair the damage at his own expense and would like further interest applied to this.
QIC responded on the final day given by the first provisional decision and said it needed an 
extension but didnt explain why. It did respond to my second provisional decision and said it 
didnt agree with the outcome.
It said its second surveyor doesnt deny there is cracking. Instead this surveyor is saying the 
damage isnt consistent with the reported claim incident. QIC also said the first surveyor no 
longer works for them following an audit on a number of claims. QIC said the damage was 
inconsistent with the amount of water that supposedly escaped, and the second surveyor is 
far more qualified in structural waterproofing and remedial treatment for damp properties.
This surveyor said Mr D had to hire a pump. Leading to a question of why so much water 
needed to be removed but the study floor wasnt damaged and why didnt the ceiling above 
collapse.
QIC said there was no evidence the heating system had been replaced and the radiators 
didnt look brand new. QIC wants a copy of the invoice for the new heating system. QIC also 
said even if there was a new system this would be unlikely to include replacing all pipework. 
So, it maintains the water leaking would be discoloured and cause staining.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ds frustration. But, the second provisional decision upheld more of his 
points that I hadnt been able to uphold in the first provisional decision. So, although it might 
appear to be a time issue - it isnt. Mr D was able to produce more evidence to support his 
complaint. The reason for the second provisional decision was more about making sure both 
parties know what they need to respond to before I could issue my final decision. Mr D didnt 
raise any point about a computer, so Ive not made a finding on that. And although I 
understand what Mr D said about interest, I dont think theres reason for me to make an 
additional award of interest in this case. There was some evidence not available so I needed 
to ask him for it, that doesnt mean I should turn to QIC to pay interest to Mr D.
QIC did ask for more time but oddly hasnt produced any further evidence. Instead of 
providing evidence it has raised issue about the first of its own surveyors, asked questions 
and requesting more information. This is being raised now despite the original complaint 
from Mr D dating back to August 2021. I dont think thats fair or reasonable on QICs part. It 
had every opportunity to investigate and ask for any information it required during the claim 
handling. It appears now to be guessing about the updated heating system rather than 
producing any useful detail. Overall, it hasnt provided me with anything evidence wise to 
change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require QIC Europe Ltd to deal with:
the claim for damage to the hallway and study ceiling and walls.
the landing and stairs.
the chandelier.
cleaning and drying costs.My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require QIC Europe Ltd to deal with:
the claim for damage to the hallway and study ceiling and walls.
the landing and stairs.
the chandelier.
cleaning and drying costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman