DRN-3055452
The complaint
Mr Q complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wrongly re-debited a chargeback refund 
without any warning, which caused him to go into his overdraft and had an adverse impact 
on his credit file. He is also unhappy with the service he received after raising the issue with 
HSBC.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Q raised a chargeback of £476.99 after he didnt receive delivery of goods he had 
purchased. HSBC issued him with a temporary refund on 27 April 2020, but the 
merchant also provided a refund credit for the same amount 29 April 2020, and Mr Q 
ended up spending both amounts from his account. It wasnt until October 2019 that 
HSBC were informed by Visa that a refund had also been issued by the merchant. 
So they sent a letter to Mr Q on 19 October 2020 stating that they will be reapplying 
the debit on or after 26 October 2020, which they subsequently did on 3 November 
2020. I appreciate that Mr Q says he never received any notification from HSBC to 
say theyd be reapplying the debit, as he says he didnt receive the letter. But I can 
see that it is correctly addressed, and I have to take into account that the vast 
majority of correctly addressed mail is safely received by the addressed recipient. So 
I think its more likely than not that Mr Q did receive HSBCs letter, and ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the amount would be taken from his account.
I appreciate that Mr Q thinks that HSBC ought to have paid more consideration to his 
financial circumstances before reapplying the debit. However, a chargeback credit is 
only ever a temporary refund until the chargeback claim is complete, and Mr Q ought 
to have known that he wouldnt be entitled to a refund from both HSBC and the 
merchant. So, HSBC were entitled to recover it, and they were not obliged to 
consider his circumstances before doing so. I acknowledge the debit was reapplied 
several months after the refund had been paid. But this was due to a backlog of 
disputes and chargebacks that had been made during the Covid-19 pandemic. And 
in any event, the delay still wouldnt have meant that HSBC would be prevented from 
reapplying the refund. I also note that Mr Q didnt contact HSBC to inform them he 
had received the refund twice, which couldve also prevented them from having to 
claw back the money several months later. 
HSBC also agreed to amend Mr Qs credit file for the month of November when the 
debit was reapplied and he went into his overdraft, but I can see that he had to chase 
them in order to get this rectified. I appreciate it took longer than Mr Q was expecting, 
and he said that having the adverse information recorded on his file has had a 
negative impact on him. However, he has not been able to demonstrate this with any 
contemporaneous evidence, so Im not persuaded it has made any difference. And 
considering that HSBC were within their rights to take back the refund, there was no 
obligation on them to rectify any adverse credit data that resulted from Mr Q being in 
his overdraft in any event.  
I understand that Mr Q is unhappy with customer service he has received, such as 
HSBC failing to get in touch with him after being promised a call back, as well as 
delays in responding to his data request. HSBC has conceded that their service 
could have been better, and theyve offered a total of £400 compensation to Mr Q 
over several complaints. But Mr Q does not feel this is commensurate to the 
experience he has had and considers he should be paid a higher award.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had. And in order to award further compensation to Mr Q, I would have to be satisfied 
that the wrongful actions of HSBC have had a greater impact than just moderate 
inconvenience or upset, which I cant say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating for Mr Q. But I dont consider 
the actions of HSBC to warrant any further compensation at a higher level. I can see 
that they have sought to make things right by apologising to Mr Q, and £400 is 
already a substantial award of compensation. So, for the instances where HSBCs 
service did fall below an acceptable standard, I consider their offer of £400 to be fair 
compensation.
I also note that some elements of Mr Qs complaint relate to the service he received 
when HSBC was handling his complaint. However, complaint handling is not an 
activity that is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, so it is therefore not 
something that falls within the remit of this service to consider. I therefore will not be 
able to comment on any aspects of Mr Qs complaint that relate to HSBCs complaint 
handling. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr Q. But in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that the compensation offered by HSBC is fair, so I will not be directing them to take 
any further action.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc have made an offer to pay a total of £400.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
HSBC should pay Mr Q (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision (or pay him the remaining amount if they already paid part of the 
£400).
Mr Q should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between him and HSBC as to whether the £400 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman