DRN-2540250
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a claim he made on his home
insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr H got in touch with AXA to make a claim for storm damage to his
property. AXA appointed a surveyor to investigate his claim.
The surveyor didnt think the damage was down to storm. They said Mr Hs roofer had
informed them that his roof hadnt been properly laid a few years before. They felt the roof
damage wasnt consistent with storm. And the internal water damage looked as if itd been
going on for some time. Based on the surveyors report, AXA turned down the claim.
Mr H wasnt happy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the available local weather records showed thered been storm
conditions on or around the date of the claim. She thought the surveyors evidence showed it
was most likely that the damage was down to wear and tear rather than storm. So she
thought it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr Hs claim.
Mr H disagreed. He said thered been three named storms around the time of his claim. And
he felt the surveyor had manipulated the data to make the incident look worse than it was.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr Hs claim. I said:
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to
ask:
- Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
- Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
- Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
AXA has defined what it means by a storm in its policy wording. It says:
Storm- a period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph) *
or Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour
or Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours
or Hail of such intensity that is causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
*Equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale.
AXA doesnt think there were storm conditions on or around the date of Mr Hs loss. And our
investigator agreed. Ive also looked at the local weather conditions for the couple of weeks
around the date Mr H told AXA the damage occurred  4 March 2020. And while there
werent storm conditions on the day Mr H reported the damage, there were dry storm winds
of 48 mph on 1 March 2020. Two weeks beforehand, on 19 February 2020, there were peak
gusts of wind of up to 63 mph, which were accompanied by heavy rainfall. So I think there
was at least one storm which met AXAs definition of storm around the date Mr H made his
claim.
This means I disagree with our investigator and I think the answer to the first question is:
yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
AXAs surveyor didnt think the damage was consistent with storm damage. They felt the
internal damage had happened over a period of time and that the external damage was
down to poor workmanship. Based on this evidence, I think its most likely that the answer to
this question is no. But as Mr H has provided us with a photo of a ridge tile he says was
displaced by the winds and as storm conditions can cause both roof and internal damage,
Ive gone on to consider the third question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked carefully at the available evidence. Mr H has provided a video of water leaking
into his kitchen and photos of the skylight. He said the high winds had torn off the flashings
on the roof and thats how the water got in.
On the other hand, AXAs surveyor doesnt think the damage was down to storm. Their
report said Mr Hs roofer had advised that the roof has not been laid properly when it was
done two and a half years ago. Mr H had gone ahead with repairs and then noticed further
water getting in by the lantern area. The surveyor didnt think this damage was consistent
with storm and believed it was an ongoing issue. Their overall conclusion was that the
damage had been ongoing over time and wasnt due to storm. Ive considered the photos
the surveyor took and these do appear to suggest that the damage had been ongoing for
some time, due to the staining of the paintwork.
Ive weighed up what both parties have said and provided. Its possible water got in through
a dislodged ridge-tile and that the high winds tore off the flashing. But AXAs surveyor didnt
find any evidence to show damage of this nature to the roof. I appreciate Mr H had had
much of the repair work done by the time AXAs surveyor visited though, so its possible this
damage did exist prior to the repairs. Although given it appears Mr Hs roofer mentioned to
AXAs surveyor that itd been faulty installation of the roof thatd caused the damage rather
than storm damage, Im not currently persuaded that torn flashings were the most likely
cause of the water getting in.
Currently, AXAs surveyors evidence is the only expert evidence I have to consider, so Ive
placed significant weight on it. Their conclusion was that the main cause of the damage
wasnt a one-off incident of storm, they felt itd happened over time and was also down to
faulty workmanship. Damage which happens gradually is specifically excluded by the policy
terms. So I currently think it was fair for AXA to rely on its surveyors report to decide the
damage wasnt storm damage and to turn down Mr Hs claim. Its open to Mr H to obtain
independent expert evidence to counter AXAs findings though, at his own cost, in response
to this provisional decision for me to consider.Mr H has also now complained about the difficulties he had in getting in touch with AXA and
about the service he received. It doesnt look as though hes previously complained to AXA
about this issue, so it isnt something I can consider as part of this provisional decision. Mr H
will need to complain to AXA about the customer service he received as a new complaint,
before we can potentially help.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider.
AXA didnt send me anything more.
Mr H disagreed with my provisional decision. He provided me with some more photos and a 
detailed response, which Ive summarised. He said:
-The roof was in an excellent state and that the photos show replacement lead on the 
top ridge, which was blown away, together with two tiles. It directly ties into where the 
water was coming in;
-The damage couldnt have happened over time. The initial pictures that show the 
damage only show the start of the problem. It was a warm and sunny day when the 
surveyor came, so the water had dried;
-The surveyors photos are far duller than his own photos. And the photos of the 
previous damage AXA sent us should be ignored, as the extension hadnt been built 
when those photos were taken;
-Water travels from a high point to a low point. The skylight wasnt at fault  the water 
came from beyond it and travelled past. But the surveyor had focused on this and not 
on the trail of the water. If he had; hed have seen the missing tiles;
-Mr H had speculated the skylight was faulty, but this wasnt fact or supported by the 
manufacturer; builder or local council;
-All of Mr Hs photos show the damage worsening over time, which shows the 
damage mustve been a one-off event.
-It would be difficult to get a roof report now, as the works have been done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr Hs claim and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive thought carefully about everything hes said and sent me. 
Ive looked closely at the further photo evidence hes provided. Id also like to reassure him 
that in making my decision, Ive focused on the evidence from around the date of the claim  
rather than the historic evidence AXA sent us.
Its clear Mr H feels strongly that the storm around the time of his claim caused the damage 
to his home, rather than wear and tear over time. But while Ive considered what hes told me 
and sent me, its still the case than the only expert evidence I have to show me what the 
most likely cause of the damage was is AXAs surveyors report. 
AXAs surveyor referred to a discussion they had with Mr Hs roofer during their visit, rather 
than with Mr H himself. The roofer felt the roof hadnt been laid properly two and a half years 
before. Theyd ultimately found that the leak was coming through near the lantern area 
through to the ceiling below and into the kitchen. The surveyor concluded the lantern would 
need to be refitted and properly sealed to stop the water getting in. And they concluded that 
the water had been getting in through the lantern over time. While this may have been speculation by Mr Hs roofer, given it seems hed helped carry out repairs, I think it was 
reasonable for AXAs surveyor to take into account his opinion.
I appreciate Mr H had already had the repairs carried out by the time I initially reviewed his 
complaint, so he felt getting a report would be difficult. But in the absence of any other expert 
evidence to counter what AXAs surveyors said, Ive still placed significant weight on the 
surveyors assessment of the damage and its cause.
Having considered the report again, together with the evidence Mr H has provided, Im still 
more persuaded by the surveyors findings. They simply didnt find evidence that the roof or 
internal damage were down to storm. So it follows I think it was fair for AXA to rely on this 
evidence to turn down Mr Hs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman