DRN-3717722
Complaint
Mr C says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In October 2019, a Halifax account in Mr Cs name received a transfer of £300 from a third-
party. The funds were immediately withdrawn from a cash machine. Shortly afterwards, 
Halifax received a notification from the bank which sent the payment stating that the payer of 
the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Halifax reviewed the account, decided to 
close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr C.
After subsequently learning of the fraud marker, Mr C complained to Halifax. Halifax looked 
at Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr C remained dissatisfied he referred the matter 
to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Halifax has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr C is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Halifax must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Cs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Halifax also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr C was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr C allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Cs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Halifax had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Cs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Halifax has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered the 
account in Mr Cs name in October 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only 
matter which remains in dispute here is whether Mr C was complicit in this activity. 
Mr C says he had nothing to do with what happened as the account was opened without his 
knowledge or consent. He said that he was outside of the United Kingdom (U.K.) at the 
time all of this took place. Mr C also confirmed that he was living at the address recorded on 
the application and which all the correspondence regarding the account was sent to, at the 
time the account was opened. He also said that he lived alone at this address.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said and Ive tried to give him the benefit of the doubt here. 
But Im afraid that his version of events simply isnt implausible. Not only was an application 
for a bank account made using all of Mr Cs correct details, but the funds transferred to the 
account were withdrawn at a cash machine using a debit card and personal identification 
number (PIN), which were sent separately to Mr Cs address. 
In these circumstances, its difficult for me to see how an opportunistic fraudster would have 
had all of Mr Cs correct details to make the application and then been able to intercept a 
number of communications such as the debit card and PIN - which were sent separately to 
an address Mr C says he was living alone at, at the time. This is especially the case that 
there isnt anything to suggest that any other mail was intercepted or that any other fraud 
took place. I appreciate that Mr C says he was out of the U.K. at the time. However, hes not 
been able to demonstrate this and in any event this on its own doesnt mean that he didnt 
cooperate with another party.     
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Halifax did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered an account in Mr Cs name. And given what 
Ive said about the information and communications required to carry out the activity being 
sent to Mr Cs correct address, it was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more 
likely than not Mr C was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for 
Halifax to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im therefore 
not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr C 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman