DRN-2466038
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not refund him for 
transactions made on his credit card for a car purchase. 
What happened
Mr G is unhappy that NatWest will not refund him for transactions made on his credit card for 
a car purchase. As part of his complaint Mr G has raised a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). This claim was for breach of contract and 
misrepresentation with respect to the car purchase. Part of the purchase price for the car 
was paid on Mr Gs credit card in August 2018. 
In July 2020, NatWest wrote to Mr G. In that correspondence they said that they were unable 
to assist him with a chargeback claim because of the timescales allowed by the card 
scheme. They also refused to uphold Mr Gs complaint regarding the Section 75 claim as, in 
summary, they said there was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for a Section 75 
claim. This is because the invoice for the car was in the name of Mr Gs son and the car was 
for him. It said that Mr G didnt have a contractual relationship with the dealership the car 
was bought from. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, because he thought the 
chargeback wasnt raised in time. He also thought that there wasnt a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier link for a valid Section 75 claim. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. In summary, he thinks that there should be a valid 
Section 75 claim. He says his son was outside the reception area viewing the car at the time 
Mr G was completing the information on the invoice. Mr G also says he was the party to the 
contract, as he is the one that paid for the car on his credit card.  
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened, based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
The general effect of Section 75 makes the provider of the credit (NatWest in this case) 
jointly and severally liable where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by the supplier of goods or services financed by the credit, provided certain conditions are 
met. 
One of the conditions is that there is a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor 
and the supplier. This is sometimes referred to as a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) 
agreement, and the formal wording is set out in Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
A D-C-S agreement refers to the arrangements that need to exist between the relevant
parties in order to be able to make a Section 75 claim.
I can see that Mr G feels very strongly about this issue, and I have considered his 
submissions carefully. In summary, Mr G thinks that there should be a valid Section 75 
claim. He says his son was outside the reception area viewing the car at the time Mr G was 
completing the information on the invoice. Mr G also says he was the party to the contract as 
he is the one that paid for the car on his credit card.  
It is Mr G who is considered to be the debtor because he has a credit card with NatWest; the 
creditor is NatWest because it has agreed to provide credit to Mr G; and the supplier is the 
car dealership. However, I dont think the car dealership has a direct relationship with Mr G 
for a Section 75 claim, because I think Mr Gs son was the contracting party and not him. 
Although I dont doubt that Mr G has had some involvement in the process of helping with 
the car purchase, and while he might get some benefit from the car, Im not satisfied that this 
is enough to make him a contracting party for the requirements of a Section 75 claim. I say 
this due to several reasons, outlined below.
I consider it persuasive that the sale invoice for the car is in the name of Mr Gs son only. 
While this is not always a sole determining factor, I think this indicates that his son was the 
contracting party here. I have also carefully considered other surrounding evidence and note 
that Mr G did confirm that his son is the registered keeper of the car, and not Mr G. Mr G has 
also confirmed that his son is the only insured driver on the car. So, it would be his son that 
would have certain rights, obligations and responsibilities as a named person driving the car.
Mr G says that the car was bought for his son as a gift. So I think, that for the purposes of 
Section 75, all the above evidence serves as a relevant indicator of who is intended to be the 
contracting party in this instance. Therefore, I think, most likely it is Mr Gs son that is the 
contracting party. So, I think Mr Gs son entered into a contract to purchase the car for which 
Mr G provided the funds.
The D-C-S arrangement needs to exist between the debtor (Mr G), the creditor (NatWest), 
and the supplier (the car dealership). As Mr G had no contractual relationship with the 
supplier (because it was his son who entered into that contract), it seems there was no D-C-
S arrangement in place. So, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly in turning down the Section 
75 claim.
Could NatWest have done anything else to help Mr G?
Ive also thought about whether NatWest could have done anything else to help Mr G, such 
as should they have raised a chargeback. But I think the relevant time limits had elapsed for 
raising a chargeback by the time Mr G contacted NatWest. So, I dont think they acted 
unfairly by not raising a chargeback.
While Mr G has my sympathy, considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think NatWest has acted unfairly, so Im not asking them to take any action regarding this 
complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman