DRN-4118958
The complaint
Mr L complains about the administration of his stakeholder pension plan by ReAssure
Limited. He says ReAssure hasnt provided sufficient information about the different charges
deducted from his plan and that, the information it has provided is conflicting, so he cant be
satisfied that the correct amount in charges has been deducted.
Mr L also complains that he was given incorrect information about the applicable charges
and that ReAssure failed to provide him with an annual statement.
What happened
Mr L took out his stakeholder plan with another provider in 2011.
In September 2020, at around the time ReAssure took over the administration of his plan,
Mr Ls former provider sent him a final statement setting out the value of his plan as at the
end of August 2020.
Mr L was due to receive an annual statement at the beginning of 2021 but unfortunately
ReAssure omitted to send him that statement.
On 16 July 2021 ReAssure sent Mr L a yearly review of his pension plan which set out the
value of his plan, some projections and the charges applied by ReAssure.
Mr L then contacted ReAssure and asked for details of all charges relating to his plan.
On 3 August 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr L and provided information about the annual
management charges (AMCs) that applied to his plan. The information provided in that letter
was unfortunately incorrect.
On 6 August 2021 Mr L contacted ReAssure and informed it that the information in that
letter, in respect of the AMCs that applied to his plan, wasnt correct.
Mr L then contacted ReAssure on 11 August 2021 and complained about the information it
had provided. He said that he wanted to know how the annual management charges had
been applied to his plan.
Mr L also said he wanted full and precise details of all charges affecting his plan and or his
unit trust holdings. He asked ReAssure to identify every class of charge, such as stock
exchange dealing charges or external auditors charges, claimed by either ReAssure, or by
the fund manager. Mr L also requested that ReAssure confirm whether each charge was
taken before or after unit prices were determined and whether the annual charge referred to
in the policy review included all those charges.
ReAssure responded to Mr L on 18 August 2021. It confirmed there was no policy fee
applicable to his plan and no bid offer spread. It said the only charge applicable to his plan
was the tiered Annual Management Charge (AMC).
ReAssure explained the AMC was applied to his fund using three different tiers of fund
value. So, for instance the percentage applied to the first £24,999 invested in the funds in his
plan was different to the next tier. It set out the relevant tiers and respective charges.
ReAssure also said that AMCs were calculated and deducted daily and could fluctuate in line
with a change to the fund value.
Mr L complained to ReAssure. In summary he said it hadnt properly answered his questions 
about the type of charges applied to his plan and it hadnt demonstrated that the annual 
management charges had been properly applied in accordance with the tiers. He also 
questioned whether the fund value used for the AMC calculation was the total value of his 
unit trusts, or the value of each separate investment. Mr L also complained that ReAssure 
had not given any information about any fund charges.
ReAssure wrote to Mr L on 30 September 2021. It apologised for omitting to provide his
annual statement and said that it had contacted the relevant department and an annual
statement would be issued to him shortly.
ReAssure also apologised for providing incorrect information on 3 August 2021 and
confirmed the information, about the charges applied to his plan, in the letter of 18 August
2021 was correct.
ReAssure said that the annual management charge percentages in the tiered structure was
for both of the funds combined. It said that the annual management charge was deducted
daily and was reflected in the fund value. ReAssure also confirmed that there were no other
charges applicable to Mr Ls plan.
Mr L was unhappy with the response he had received from ReAssure as he didnt feel it
addressed the issue of whether the correct charges had been deducted from his plan. He
referred his complaint to our service.
On 10 December 2021 ReAssure sent Mr L a unit statement for his plan.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She noted
that Mr L had been sent incorrect information on 3 August 2021 and that he hadnt received
an annual statement. However, she took into account that ReAssure had acknowledged
those mistakes and had apologised.
The investigator said that annual management charges were applied on a tiered basis as set
out in the letter sent by ReAssure on 18 August 2021. So, she said she wouldnt be asking
ReAssure to do anything more.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said in summary that his complaint
was concerned with two sources of charges and not simply the charges to his plan. He didnt
agree that the investigator had obtained all the necessary information. Mr L reiterated that
we should ensure that ReAssure responded specifically to each of the questions raised in
his complaint.
We asked ReAssure to provide further information about the actual charges deducted from
Mr Ls plan.
ReAssure confirmed that the charges deducted are implicit charges, so they are deducted
from the units themselves. It provided the key features document sent to Mr L when his
application for the plan was accepted. That document set out the annual management tiered
percentages.
ReAssure also provided a transaction summary of the annual management chargesdeducted from the units in Mr Ls plan since the beginning of September 2020.
That information was shared with Mr L who said we had misunderstood his complaint, as his
main concern was the question of Investment Management Charges referred to in the policy
information document issued by ReAssure on 1 December 2021.
ReAssure said there was no investment management charge applicable for the two funds
that Mr Ls plan was invested in, and it provided fact sheets for those funds which confirmed 
this.
As no agreement was reached Mr Ls complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision where I upheld Mr Ls complaint in part and concluded that 
ReAssure should pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
administrative errors. Overall, I concluded that ReAssure had provided sufficient information 
to Mr L about the charges it had applied to his plan and the way in which the annual 
management charges had been calculated and deducted.
Below is an extract from that provisional decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Mr L is unhappy with the information he has been provided by ReAssure about the
charges applied to his pension plan. He would like to know what type of charges have been
applied by ReAssure and by the fund manager of the two funds he is invested in. Mr L also
wants to know that the charges have been applied correctly to his plan.
I note that Mr L has a stakeholder plan which means that the charges on his plan are
capped.
Charges applied to Mr Ls pension plan by ReAssure
When Mr L took out his pension plan in 2011, he was provided with a key features document
which set out the charges that applied to his plan. It explained that an annual management
charge was applied to his investments and how this was calculated.
It said:
Management charges are due and calculated each day based on the value of your fund on
that day. The rate used will be calculated at the beginning of each month and based on
1/365th of the appropriate Annual Management Charge shown as applying to that band.
These charges will normally be deducted from your fund monthly in arrears.
Fund Value Rate of Annual Management
Bands (£) Charge applicable to Band
0 to 25,000 1.000%
25,000 to 50,000 0.850%
50,000 and above 0.650%
So, the annual management charge is calculated as a percentage of the fund value, the
amount of which may change if the fund value fluctuates. I note this is an implicit charge as
ReAssure deducts the annual management charges from the units themselves, rather thancharging Mr L separately.
Mr Ls pension plan is invested in two funds and ReAssure has confirmed that the annual
management charge band is applied to the total combined value of both funds.
ReAssure also referred to an investment management charge (IMC) in the information it
provided to Mr L about his plan.
ReAssure has given some explanation about this type of charge on its website, as follows:
Investment Management Charges (IMCs) are charges or expenses incurred when trading or
maintaining the underlying investments, including taxes. Trading costs currently include
items such as stamp duty and dealing commissions, while administration costs primarily
include investment management and custodian fees.
However, ReAssure has confirmed that this charge doesnt apply to the two funds Mr Ls
plan is invested in. I can see the fund fact sheets provided both state there is 0% IMC
charge taken from the fund.
In ReAssures Guide to Unit Linked funds it gives some explanation about the deductions
taken from its funds.
The fund deductions we make fall into two categories, those that are charges or expenses
incurred when trading or maintaining the underlying investments, including taxes, and those
that are charges we make in line with your policy documents. These deductions will result in
a decrease in the value of your investment. For stakeholder products, ReAssure will ensure
that the maximum charge documented in policy terms and conditions is not breached.
Any charges or expenses incurred in trading and administering the assets held within the
Base Funds are charged directly to the Base Funds. Trading costs currently include such
items as stamp duty and dealing commission, while administration costs primarily include
investment management and custodial fees. We apply these charges to the Base Funds as
they occur.
I consider the charges incurred when trading or maintaining the underlying investments fall
within the remit of the manager of each fund, and I note the way the fund is managed is
overseen by ReAssures governance forums.
Annual management charges
ReAssure has confirmed that no plan fees are applied to Mr Ls plan and there is no bid -
offer spread, which is where there is a difference in the buying and selling price of the units.
ReAssure has explained that the only charge applicable to his plan, and by this I consider it
means applied directly by ReAssure, is the annual management charge.
In its letter of 18 August 2021, it said:
The only charge applicable to this policy is tiered Annual Management Charge (AMC).
This charge works on a tiered basis, therefore, different parts of fund value have different
AMC rates applicable.
The structure for this is set out in the table below;Floor Amount Percentage
0 to £24,999.99 1.000%
£25,000.00 to £49,999.99 0.850%
£50,000.00 and above 0.650%
I note ReAssure has acknowledged that the information it provided to Mr L about annual
management charges on 3 August 2021 was incorrect. And I also take into account that it
acknowledged its mistake on 18 August 2021, so relatively soon after that mistake was
made.
I am satisfied that the information provided by ReAssure in its key features document about
the annual management charges accords with the information it provided on 18 August
2021. So, I consider on balance that the annual management charges applicable to Mr Ls
plan are as set out in the letter of 18 August 2021, as reproduced above.
Were the annual management charges correctly applied?
Mr L has stated on several occasions that he wanted ReAssure to demonstrate it had
correctly applied the AMCs to his plan. Although, I note more recently he has said, in
response to information provided to him about those deductions, that this was not his main
concern.
My role here is to consider the complaint brought by Mr L against ReAssure. This is an
informal resolution service, and as set out above, I need to consider what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint - so I dont think it is appropriate for me to
effectively assume the role of an auditor and reconcile all the deductions taken from Mr Ls
plan.
Having said that, I have looked carefully at the transaction summary provided and, as far as
I can tell, the amount deducted from the units accords broadly with the tiered percentages of
annual management charges, taking into account the value of Mr Ls plan. I note that when
the value of the plan fluctuates that will impact the amount deducted even though the tiered
percentages remain the same.
Investment management charges (IMCs)
Mr L has correctly pointed out that ReAssure referred to another type of charge in the plan
information it provided in December 2021; the investment management charge, which I have
referred to above.
In that letter ReAssure referred in a general way to the different charges and said:
Explicit charges are taken from your policy value and premiums and can include charges
such as policy fees and bid-offer spread. There are also charges that are taken from the
daily prices of every unit you're invested in. These are called Implicit charges, and include
Annual Management Charges (AMCs) and Investment Management Charges (IMCs) and
are used to cover the cost of administering your policy. Learn more at
www.reassure.co.uk/charges
Mr L would like to know how this charge has been applied to his plan. Mr L has also asked
for details of all the expenses incurred by the fund managers, such as stock exchange
dealing charges and external auditors charges.
I appreciate that Mr L would like to know which charges have been taken from his plan andfrom the investments within his plan. And, of course, charges are important because they
have an impact on investment return.
As I have said, ReAssure has confirmed that the investment management charge deducted
from Mr Ls fund is 0 percent. This is confirmed in the fund fact sheet which is available from
the ReAssure Fund Centre on its website.
I consider it more likely than not that some expenses such as trading costs will have been
taken from the funds themselves because any fund will inevitably have some running costs.
So, it may well be that 0 percent is an approximation of the costs, taking into account the
large overall value of the fund and the comparatively small amount of trading costs.
However, I dont think it would be proportionate in the circumstances to ask ReAssure to
provide details to Mr L of every expense deducted from the base fund and how that in turn
relates to his fund value. I consider the most important issue for Mr L, as the investor, is the
impact of any charges on his return. So, where the investment management charge is, in
effect, 0 percent  then the impact must be fairly minimal.
And I dont think it is my role here to check whether the fund managers have correctly
deducted the expenses of running each fund. Firstly, I dont have any specific complaint
asserting that the expenses have in fact been incorrectly deducted from the base fund, and
in what way, or any evidence of mismanagement. Secondly, ReAssure has governance
forums which oversee the management of its funds. And thirdly, if the funds were being
incorrectly managed, then that is primarily a regulatory issue. Whereas my role is to consider
the individual dispute between Mr L and ReAssure within the framework of our informal 
dispute resolution service.
I also note there is information available about these funds in the public domain on the
ReAssure website and on the Trustnet website.
Summary
Overall, I am satisfied on balance, and notwithstanding my comments immediately below,
that ReAssure has provided sufficient information to Mr L about the charges it has applied to
his plan and the way the annual management charges have been calculated and deducted.
Administrative errors
It is accepted by ReAssure that it sent out incorrect information about the annual
management charges on 3 August 2021. As I have said, it did acknowledge that mistake
fairly quickly. However, I also note that Mr L had to bring the error to its attention in the first
place. This wasnt a case of ReAssure realising of its own accord that it had provided
incorrect information.
I think this error made Mr L concerned about whether ReAssure was properly applying the
correct annual management charges to his pension plan. And this wasnt helped by the fact
that no annual statement had been sent at the beginning of that same year, which I think is
likely to have reinforced the feeling that information was missing or incorrect.
I am satisfied therefore that Mr L was caused distress and inconvenience by the combination
of those two factors. And I therefore think ReAssure should pay some compensation to
address that fact. Given the nature of the error, the relatively short time taken to rectify it and
the overall impact on Mr L, I consider £150 is a fair and reasonable sum to reflect the
distress and inconvenience caused.Summary
ReAssure should pay £150 compensation to Mr L for the distress and inconvenience caused
by the administrative errors it made.
ReAssure acknowledged my provisional decision and said it had no further representations.
Mr L also acknowledged the decision and in summary he said:
He noted that I had understood the difference between the management of the plan 
and the management of the investments that were the subject of that plan.
He also noted the distinction between payment for out-of-pocket expenses such as 
stamp duty, dealing commission, overdraft interest or custody fees, and payments 
that yield profit to ReAssure and another business that manages the funds.
He said he would accept my decision on condition that I asked ReAssure to confirm 
that the manager of the funds takes its profit out of ReAssures annual management 
charge. As he said that the fund manager could not be carrying out its role without 
charge. 
He said if this wasnt confirmed in response to such a request, then it appeared that 
either a) he was paying profit charges in addition to ReAssures Annual Management 
Charge or b) there was a possibility that ReAssure hadnt disclosed the fund 
managers profit charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the representations made by Mr L in response to my provisional 
decision and I note he would like specific information about the implicit charges or profit 
charge deducted from his funds by the fund manager and how any such charges are 
funded. 
I agree with Mr L that it is unlikely that the manager of the funds held within his plan is 
providing its investment services without charge. 
I also think it is fair and reasonable to ask ReAssure to provide information about what 
charges it deducts from Mr Ls plan and I am satisfied that it has done so here, by giving 
specific information about the annual management charge deductions. And I note it has also 
provided some information in relation to the investment management charge and explained 
that for these funds it is 0 percent. 
However, if ReAssure pays some of the money it receives from the annual management 
charge to a third party, such as the fund manager, then I would consider that to be a 
commercial decision by ReAssure. On that basis, that is not information which would be 
appropriate for me to ask it to disclose. And, importantly, not information that I think it is 
necessary to obtain in order to fairly and reasonably determine this complaint.  This 
complaint is essentially about the charges deducted from Mr Ls pension plan and the funds 
within the plan, however it has been brought against ReAssure. ReAssure has confirmed 
what charges it takes and how those charges are calculated. It has also provided specific 
information about how those charges were applied to Mr Ls plan over the relevant period. 
So, I consider that to be the relevant information to determine this complaint against 
ReAssure.  Therefore, having considered the representations made, I still remain of the view set out in 
my provisional decision. For the reasons I have already outlined there, ReAssure should pay 
£150 to Mr L. However, I am not asking it to provide any further information to Mr L.    
Putting things right
ReAssure should pay £150 to Mr L for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ls complaint against ReAssure Limited is upheld in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman