DRN-3712859
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) did not provide 
enough information about the travel insurance that they held as part of their packaged bank 
account.
They say that they were not told about the need to declare pre-existing medical conditions 
and this led them to having a claim declined by the provider of the travel insurance.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered what Mr and Mrs L and Co-op had said and they 
concluded that enough information was provided by Co-op. Mr and Mrs L did not agree with 
this and therefore their complaint was passed to me to issue a final decision.
This decision will only be considering whether Co-op has done anything wrong regarding 
how it sold the account. It will not be looking at the travel insurance claim itself, as this has 
been dealt with separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that 
to help me decide this case. And having considered everything provided, I dont think that 
Co-op has done anything wrong. Let me explain why.
Co-op is not the provider of the travel insurance, so it is only responsible for providing Mr 
and Mrs L with the important information about the insurance policy. 
In this instance I do not know what Mr and Mrs L were told during the sales process. So I 
accept it is possible that the specifics of the travel insurance terms and exclusions werent 
discussed with them. However, I think its just as likely that the need to declare medical 
conditions to the travel insurer was discussed with them, but over the course of time, Mr and 
Mrs L have simply forgotten that it was ever mentioned. Afterall the account was sold to 
them a number of years ago. 
That said though, I have looked at the documentation that wouldve been provided as part of 
the sales process and I am satisfied that made it clear that pre-existing medical conditions 
are not automatically covered under the travel insurance policy. I am also satisfied that this 
requirement is clearly set out in a number of other documents that were likely sent out to Mr 
and Mrs L over the years they held their account. So I dont think that Co-op did anything 
wrong in relation to this.
I note that Mr and Mrs L say that they contacted Co-op over the years to inform it that they 
were going abroad. They say that during these calls they should have been asked if they 
had declared their medical conditions. I cant see that Co-op were obliged to do this  after 
all Co-op would only need to know this information to ensure that any overseas debit card 
usage is not incorrectly declined. Furthermore, the documentation that they were provided 
with over the years clearly set out the phone number they needed to contact if they wanted 
to declare medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs L have referred to information provided to them by a third party, in which they 
say they were told that they had a reasonable claim and that Co-op were behind the times 
with the way that they provided information about the travel insurance policies. Mr and Mrs L 
also have highlighted that if this service does not uphold this complaint we are siding with 
big business over the client. 
I should explain that the financial ombudsman service is an informal dispute resolution 
service that is independent and impartial. With this in mind, I would need to be satisfied on 
balance that Co-op has actually done something wrong for me to recommend an award of 
compensation. In this instance Co-op has provided Mr and Mrs L with a number of 
communications that clearly set out that they would have to declare medical conditions to the 
travel insurer, for those conditions to be covered under the travel insurance cover. This is all 
Co-op needed to do though and therefore I cant uphold this complaint. This is not because I 
am siding with Co-op, it is because there are no grounds under which I can reasonably 
uphold this complaint as I cant see that Co-op has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman