DRN-1632462
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Arrow Global Limiteds handling of his credit card balance. He thinks 
they bought his debt unfairly from his credit card provider.
What happened
Mr L has a credit card. Due to some financial difficulties over the last couple of years, Mr L 
entered into a repayment arrangement with his credit card provider. He was paying £2 a 
month towards his outstanding balance.
Mr L received a letter in November 2019. It told him that his provider had sold his debt to 
Arrow Global, and Mr L had to make arrangements with them to continue making his agreed 
repayments. 
Mr L complained about this to Arrow Global. He said it had caused him inconvenience and 
wasnt necessary as hed made all his required payments on time. Arrow Global responded 
to explain the transfer had been done for many customers, not just Mr L and it was a 
business decision made by his provider. They said the transfer had been done in line with 
the regulators guidelines. Their response also confirmed that Mr Ls repayment plan would 
remain unchanged following the transfer.
Mr L wasnt happy with this so brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
agree with Mr L. She explained that Arrow Global hadnt acted unfairly and had given Mr L 
notice that the transfer had taken place. They also provided all the relevant information to 
enable Mr L to re-set his repayment arrangement up.
Mr L didnt agree with this, so its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be asking
Arrow Global to do anything. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls credit card confirm that his credit card provider can 
transfer the agreement. What I must decide is if Arrow Global notified Mr L and it was done 
in a fair way, with no detriment to Mr L. And in this case, I think it was.
Arrow Global bought Mr Ls debt from his provider on 30 September 2019. Mr L made his 
regular payment to his provider on 12 October 2019, which they allocated to his debt with 
Arrow Global to reduce it accordingly. Arrow Global and Mr Ls provider wrote to Mr L on
4 November explaining the debt had been transferred. The letter also explained what Mr L 
needed to do next to make sure his repayment plan carried on as he expected it to. Mr L has 
confirmed he received this letter. Im satisfied that Arrow Global explained clearly to
Mr L what his next steps were and how his outstanding debt would be managed.
As Mr Ls next regular payment wasnt due until 12 November 2019, he had enough time to 
make the changes he needed to and ensure the payment was made to Arrow Global. AsMr L paid his repayment over the telephone, I dont think the change of company caused him 
any inconvenience. The new telephone number he needed to call was included on the letters 
he received, and all he needed to do was call and make the payment as normal. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman