DRN-1196480
Complaint
Mr R says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly provided 
him with a loan. 
Background
Mr R took one loan instalment loan from Satsuma. This loan was for £1,000 and began on 7 
September 2018, with 12 monthly instalments due of £166 to repay it in full. But, Mr R repaid 
his loan early on 14 January 2019.
In our adjudicators assessment he didnt think that Satsuma had treated Mr R unfairly when 
it approved the loan. This was because it carried out proportionate checks and the 
information it gathered suggested that Mr R would be in a position to be able to meet the 
repayments he was committed to making. So he didnt think it was wrong of Satsuma to 
have provided this loan.  
Mr R didnt accept the adjudicators findings, in response he said he only repaid the loan by 
borrowing from a family member, who then committed suicide. Mr R says that should be 
enough to reach a different outcome on the case. 
Satsuma appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Before I explain the decision, Ive reached on this case, I just wanted to say how sorry I am 
to have heard what has happened not only to Mr R but his wider family this year. In no way 
does the outcome that Ive reached mean that I underestimate the pain and suffering that he 
says he has been through as a result of what has happened. And I have kept this in mind 
when thinking about the case, but I also have to consider what Satsuma knew about Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time the loan was granted. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether 
Mr R could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Satsuma says it agreed to Mr Rs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and expenditure. And, based on what he declared, the information suggested that Mr R 
would be able to make the repayments he was committing to. So, in these circumstances, it 
wasnt irresponsible to provide these loans. 
I accept that Mr Rs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Satsuma obtained via the credit checks. 
And Mr Rs actual financial position might well have been apparent if further information  
such as bank statements or a copy of his actual credit report - had been obtained. 
But Satsuma could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think the checks it 
carried out were proportionate. Taking into account the information Mr R provided about his 
income (£2,925) and his expenditure (£944) the monthly repayments of £166 appeared 
affordable based on this information. 
Mr R only took one loan, so while further, more in-depth checks may well have been 
necessary and reasonable had it continued to lend to him, that didnt happen. So I dont think 
it was unreasonable of Satsuma to have relied on the information it was provided and 
gathered. 
I also dont think it had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being 
unsustainable for Mr R. In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take further 
steps to verify the information he had provided  such as asking Mr R for evidence of his 
income and outgoings which Satsuma couldve gathered from his bank statements, bills or a 
copy of his credit report. 
So based on the information that Satsuma had available at the time of the lending decision, I 
dont think it was wrong of it to have provided Mr R with this loan. 
Ive also thought about the credit file data that Satsuma obtained before it lent the loan to Mr 
R and whether that ought to have led it to make further enquires, or indeed cancel the 
application. 
But, what I would add at this point, is that the information Satsuma saw wasnt exactly the 
same as what Mr R may have seen on his actual credit report. For example, Satsuma was 
aware of the headline information  like the number of new accounts hed opened in the 
previous three months; whether he was insolvent; and whether there had been any adverse 
credit file data recorded in the six months leading up to this loan being approved. Those 
headlines wouldnt have raised any concerns at the time.
Based on the credit information Satsuma had available, I dont think this on its own wouldve 
led it to decline the applications for credit. So, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to have 
provided this loan, solely based on the information it gathered from the credit reference 
agency. In addition, I dont think it had any reason to doubt the information Mr R gave it 
when he applied for the loans.I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment for Mr R, but I want to assure 
him that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to 
me. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020. 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman