DRN-3561564
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) wont extend their mortgage 
term. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have an interest-only mortgage with TMB. In 2016, the mortgage term came to 
an end. Mr and Mrs C asked for an extension. TMB initially said it wasnt prepared to extend 
the term but then did so after Mr and Mrs C complained. 
TMB extended the term for five years, until October 2021, which it says is when it 
understood Mr C would be retiring at 72. In 2020, Mr and Mrs C asked for the term to be 
extended again. 
TMB said no, and that it expected Mr and Mrs C to repay their mortgage by October 2021. It 
maintained that position in response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, and said Mr and Mrs C 
didnt have an acceptable plan for the eventual repayment of the mortgage. TMB also said it 
could go through an income and expenditure review with Mr and Mrs C to look at what 
alternative options might be available to them, such as moving some or all of the mortgage 
onto a capital and interest repayment basis. 
Our Investigator concluded that TMBs decision wasnt unreasonable and that TMB had 
considered Mr and Mrs Cs request fairly. She thought there was a risk that Mr and Mrs Cs 
plan for repayment of the mortgage (the sale of their property to their son) wouldnt happen, 
particularly given that this was the same plan they had had when they asked for the first term 
extension in 2016. She also said extending the term further could put Mr and Mrs C in a 
worse position in the long term.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept that conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
said TMB had been inflexible, contrary to how it should have behaved due to the coronavirus 
pandemic. TMB had given them no alternatives other than to repay the mortgage, and they 
felt their age was being used against them. 
They reiterated their plan to repay the mortgage by selling the property to their son, and said 
that while their mortgage balance is around £455,000, they have more than £400,000 equity 
in the property. The value of the property had continued to rise, and this trajectory is 
predicted to carry on. They also said Mr C has a life insurance policy which could pay out 
more than the mortgage balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the Investigator did, for much the same reasons.
The starting point here is that Mr and Mrs C agreed when they took out the mortgage that 
they would repay it at the end of the term. That was initially in 2016, and then 2021. I note 
that TMB wrote to Mr and Mrs C when it extended the term in 2016, explaining that they 
would need to consider how they would repay their mortgage in 2021, and that the five-year 
extension it had granted didnt mean it would be prepared to extend the term again later.
So I think Mr and Mrs C knew what was expected of them. And there was no obligation on 
TMB to extend the term when Mr and Mrs C asked it to. That was always going to be subject 
to an assessment of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  including their plans for the ultimate 
repayment of the capital they had borrowed.
Im satisfied that TMB assessed the request Mr and Mrs C made in 2020 for a second term 
extension as far as it could based on the information it had, and that it did so fairly. It also 
explained to Mr and Mrs C why it wouldnt extend the term again: that is, it wasnt happy with 
their repayment plan. It said Mr and Mrs C had asked for an extra five years in 2016 so their 
son would have time to raise the money he needed to buy the property from them. It couldnt 
see why another five years should be necessary.
Following the Financial Ombudsman Services involvement, Mr and Mrs C and their son 
provided more information, including their sons business accounts for the last three years. 
Mr and Mrs C also explained that their sons business had been badly affected by the 
pandemic but has been growing year on year; their son said he expects this to continue and 
that he will be in a position to get a mortgage himself in order to buy the property, within five 
years. 
TMB considered this information but didnt change its mind about extending the mortgage 
term. It said it still thought Mr and Mrs Cs repayment plan was speculative. It also said that it 
didnt think extending the term would be in Mr and Mrs Cs best interests in the 
circumstances, given that they would have to pay five years worth of additional interest, the 
propertys value might fall, or they might not be in a position to move in five years. 
I dont consider TMBs position to be unreasonable, taking into account the relevant 
regulatory rules and guidance it had to follow. The relevant rules say lenders must treat 
borrowers who are unable to repay the capital they borrowed fairly, and in doing so consider 
their best interests. I think TMB did take into account Mr and Mrs Cs best interests here, and 
had reasonable concerns about their repayment plan and what could happen in the future.
Mr and Mrs C are confident that they have a viable plan for repayment. But that plan is the 
same one they expected to come to fruition in 2021, and it didnt work out as expected then. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs Cs sons business was badly affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic, and Ive kept in mind the regulators guidance for mortgage lenders in light of the 
pandemic and the support they were expected to provide. However, that support didnt mean 
TMB necessarily should have agreed to a term extension or that it should do so now.
Circumstances can and do change; that applies to Mr and Mrs C, their son and his business, 
the property and mortgage markets, and the wider economic climate. All of those are 
relevant here, and I think TMB had valid concerns; theres a real risk that Mr and Mrs Cs 
plan may not work out and they will be in a worse position in five years, for the reasons TMB 
has pointed to. And Mr and Mrs C have, as they have said, equity in the property  so they 
do have options if they ultimately have to sell it.Against this background and in all the circumstances, and also bearing in mind that I must 
consider what is fair and reasonable to both Mr and Mrs C and TMB, I dont consider that 
TMBs decision not to allow the mortgage to run for another five years was unfair or 
unreasonable. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken account of everything both TMB and Mr 
and Mrs C have said, including the existence of a life insurance policy in Mr Cs name. I 
dont think the policy helps Mr and Mrs C since it would only pay out in certain unfortunate 
circumstances.
I also dont think TMBs decision is evidence of unfair treatment of Mr and Mrs C on grounds 
of their age (theyre in their seventies) as they have suggested. Mr and Mrs Cs age isnt a 
reason TMB gave for turning down their request, and I find nothing to suggest otherwise. As 
Ive set out above, the extended term was ending and TMB looked at their repayment plan 
and best interests  and I think that approach was fair and reasonable. 
Finally, I can see that Mr and Mrs C just want to keep the property, and keep it in the family. 
I recognise that this is particularly important given that their son runs his business from it. My 
decision, while it represents the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services involvement in 
this case, doesnt mean there are no avenues remaining to Mr and Mrs C. TMB has said it 
will look at what options might now be open to them if they discuss their financial situation 
with it. I leave it to Mr and Mrs C and TMB to discuss a way forward.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman