DRN-3298981
The complaint
Mr G complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was taken for repairs following an accident. But Mr G said the repairs were of a 
poor standard. UKI told Mr G to get a report on the rectification work needed from a 
manufacturer approved garage. It then asked him to get an independent assessors report 
about the further repairs needed. Mr G did this, but UKI commissioned a further independent 
assessor to report on the rectification needed due to the high cost. 
His estimate was lower but UKI couldnt provide a garage to carry out the repairs for this 
amount. UKI paid Mr G cash in lieu of repairs, and it paid him £250 compensation for delays 
in the claim and the poor repairs. Mr G wanted UKI to pay the difference between the two 
estimates and further compensation for his travel costs and time spent.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
report provided by UKIs assessor was more persuasive and so he thought UKI could rely on 
it and its estimate of the repair costs. He said UKI had agreed to provide another garage to 
do the rectification work, but Mr G would need to return the cash in lieu payment. And he 
thought UKIs offer of compensation for its errors was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G replied that he thought his assessors report was more detailed and reliable than UKIs 
and he explained why he thought this. Mr G said UKI had agreed to reimburse his travel 
costs, but it hadnt done so. Mr G rejected UKIs offer to have the rectification work carried 
out at a manufacturer approved garage. Mr G asked for an ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr G could reasonably expect his car to be fully repaired the first time around. And I 
can see that this matter has been ongoing for almost two years. I can understand that this 
must be very frustrating for Mr G. 
I think its been established that the initial repairs to Mr Gs car were poor. He was asked to 
prove his claim and he provided engineering evidence that the rectification costs would cost 
£4,672.42. But the cash settlement paid by UKI, based on its own independent assessors 
report, was £1,185.08. 
Thats quite a difference. But were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage 
to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the 
insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether 
an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify 
its decision about the cost of additional repairs.
UKIs engineer considered Mr Gs assessors report and decided that a further independent 
assessment was needed because the rectification costs were high. So it commissioned its 
own independent assessor. From what I can see, UKIs assessor agreed with many of the 
rectification points required. But he considered that many of these could be rectified more 
easily, and cheaply, than Mr Gs assessor thought.
I can see that UKIs assessors report was passed to Mr Gs assessor for comment. And 
then I can see that UKI reviewed these comments. Its engineer concluded that these 
comments didnt change his acceptance of UKIs assessors report. 
Where there is a dispute about repairs, we think obtaining an independent assessors report 
is a fair way of trying to resolve the issue. But there have been two reports provided and the 
issue remains. And, as Ive said above, its not for me to comment on what the expert 
engineers think needs to be replaced or otherwise rectified. I can see that UKI considered all 
the evidence available in justifying its decision about the cost of the repairs. And so I cant 
say it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing this.
But I think UKI has proposed a reasonable way forward. It initially wasnt able to source a 
garage that would undertake the rectification work for the amount its assessor costed. But it 
has now agreed to have the further repairs made at a manufacturer approved garage if Mr G 
were to return the cash in lieu settlement. 
I can understand that Mr G wants the repairs to be done correctly. But I think the assurance 
of having them done at the manufacturer approved garage, which I think he has wanted for 
some time, should give him confidence. 
I can see that UKIs engineer offered at one stage to oversee the repairs to ensure that they 
were completed 100%. But I would expect UKI to ensure that the further repairs were 
completed correctly and to inspect them before the car was returned to Mr G again.
UKI paid Mr G £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its initial delays in the 
claim and by the repairs requiring rectification. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as its in keeping with our published guidance.  
Mr G also said UKI had agreed to reimburse him for his travel costs in taking the car back 
and forward to the garage. He estimated this cost to be £104. And UKI has confirmed to us 
that it is willing to refund this amount as it agreed with Mr G in April 2021.
So I think UKI has offered a reasonable solution to resolve its dispute with Mr G. I think its 
now for Mr G to contact UKI to make the necessary arrangements to return the cash in lieu 
payment, have his car repairs rectified at a manufacturer approved garage and collect the 
reimbursement of his travel costs, if he so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman