The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) made mistakes when 
calculating his loan repayments and interest rate. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for the following reasons: 
I wouldnt expect a business to be bound by a genuine error. In this case, Im
satisfied there was a genuine systems error that meant the loan information wasn't
correctly displayed. But that hasnt led to any additional costs being incurred by Mr H
and his loan agreement remained in place.
Mr H says that Yorkshire Bank repeatedly told him his loan was fine and there were
no issues. As a result, Mr H says he decided not to take out another loan with a
different business on better terms. Whilst Mr H has sent us a copy of the proposed
loan agreement, it's not clear why the other loan didn't proceed. Yorkshire Bank has
searched its records but has been unable to trace a call from Mr H during this period.
I'm satisfied the loan terms and interest rate were accepted by Mr H when he agreed
to proceed in January 2019 and that he had the necessary information about the
interest rate.
Mr H accepted a loan agreement that said he would make 83 repayments of £283.78
and a final repayment of £283.53 at an interest rate of 22.9%. Whilst I agree
Yorkshire Bank made errors that incorrectly stated the position of his loan for around
four months, his loan repayments were not affected, and he hasnt lost out financially.
Yorkshire Bank has apologised for its errors and paid Mr H £100 to reflect the trouble
and upset caused. Im satisfied £100 fairly reflects the impact of Yorkshire Banks
errors so Im not telling it to increase its offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
DRN-1774088Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman