DRN-3547684
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money when he attempted to open a current account.
What happened
On 3 August 2021 Mr R applied online to open a M Plus Account with Virgin Money. Virgin 
Money says Mr R was unable to provide the appropriate ID so the application couldnt 
continue. On 25 August 2021 an advisor at Virgin Money arranged for a new application to 
be completed so that Mr R could provide an alternate form of ID in branch. But this 
application was also declined.
Mr R provided further information along with the required ID, as such Virgin Money 
overturned the decision and an M plus account was opened for Mr R. While Virgin Money 
says they treated Mr R fairly and in line with their processes, it did acknowledge that Mr R 
was concerned he wouldnt have access to a current account during this time. As such it 
offered Mr R £50 as a gesture of good will.
Mr R is unhappy that his application was declined, that this impacted his credit file and 
overall, he feels he has treated unfairly. He is unhappy with Virgin Moneys offer of £50 and 
says this doesnt acknowledge the distress he encountered. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld, but Mr R 
remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Current account 
I can see that originally Mr R attempted to open an M Plus Account online, but his 
application hadnt progressed. I can see he contacted Virgin Money to find out why. Having 
reviewed the contact notes I can see that Virgin Money told Mr R that his application hadnt 
progressed as Mr R hadnt updated photo ID. I can also see that Mr R was told that if he 
didnt have the required ID, he could go to branch with a non-standard form of ID. As a result 
of the delay in uploading ID this application expired. 
I have reviewed Virgin Moneys website which says:
As such, I am satisfied Mr R ought to have been aware that in order to open an account with 
Virgin Money he needed to provide the required information. As such, I cant conclude that 
Virgin Money was at fault for the application expiring, as it couldnt continue with this 
application until it had satisfied the identification checks required.
Having reviewed the contact notes provided by Virgin Money I can see that a further 
application as attempted on 25 August. This was due to Mr R raising concerns about his 
original application not progressing. Mr R didnt provide any information, the advisor simply 
re-keyed the information provided form the previous application. But this application was 
declined. I can see that Virgin Money wrote to Mr R on 26 August 2021 explaining that the 
application had been declined due to it using a scoring system and information provided 
from credit reference agencies. However, it did explain that its credit scoring system was 
confidential, therefore it was unable to provide any further information.
I understand that Mr R is unhappy that further information wasnt provided regarding his 
application being declined. But as Virgin Money explained in its letter to Mr R, this 
information is confidential, and it is not obliged to share business sensitive information. 
However, I have reviewed information provided by Virgin Moneys underwriters which 
confirms the application was declined in line with their scoring system. As such, I am 
satisfised Mr R was treated fairly and in line with how other customers would have been 
treated in the same circumstances.
On 25 August 2021 Mr R contested his application being declined. I can see from the system 
notes provided that Mr R provided further information in branch and his information was 
used to overturn the decision to decline Mr Rs application. This resulted in Mr R 
successfully opening an M Plus account.
Credit file
Mr R has raised concerns about the number or searches on his credit file. Virgin Money has 
confirmed that two searches were carried out. The first search was when Mr R applied for an 
account on 3 August 2021. I appreciate Mr Rs application for the M plus account wasnt 
successful at this time but as I explained above, I cant hold Virgin Money responsible for 
this. And I am satisfied Mr R made an application I think its reasonable for Virgin Money to 
have carried out a search.
A second search was carried out when the second application was processed. Again, this is 
in line with Virgin Money processes. It is obliged to accurately report this information to credit 
reference agencies, as such I cant conclude it has acted unfairly.
Gesture of goodwill
I understand that Virgin Money paid Mr R £50 as a gesture of good will and this was paid 
directly into Mr Rs account. As I have explained above, I cant fairly conclude that Virgin 
Money has acted unreasonable or treated Mr R unfairly. As such, the payment of £50 is 
more than I would have asked Virgin Money to pay Mr R if it hadnt offered to do so already. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Jade RoweOmbudsman