DRN-3308566
The complaint
Mr M complaints that Shop Direct Finance Company, trading as Very (Shop Direct), lent to 
him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M applied for credit with Shop Direct in October 2017. On 21 October 2017 he opened a 
catalogue shopping account with a credit limit of £600.
Mr M says that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided him with the credit. He says it didnt take 
account of his financial situation at the time and that it should have refused him credit. He 
says Shop Direct didnt check it was affordable for him and that he has struggled with debt 
ever since.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think Shop Direct had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions. 
Mr M disagreed. He added that as there was no end date to the credit this allowed interest to 
continue to be applied.
  
As Mr M did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Shop 
Direct acted unfairly and lent to Mr M irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayments amount, Mr Ms borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Shop Direct has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Mr Ms account. It 
says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Mr M in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Shop Direct saw that Mr M was in default on one credit account. 
But this alone wasnt necessarily a reason not to lend to him. It also checked his declared 
income of £18.501 with a credit reference agency and this showed that this was the 
minimum amount he earned. Mr M also told Shop Direct that he worked full-time, lived with 
his parents and didnt have any dependants. Other information from the credit check showed 
that Mr M had a total credit limit available to him at the time of £1,800  just 10% of his gross 
income. It also showed that hed had no arrears in any borrowing in 23 out of the previous 24 
months.
 
Based on this a credit limit of £600 appeared affordable and Mr M didnt appear to be 
overindebted. 
Mr M says that meeting the repayments was difficult and stressful and have contributed 
towards his ill health. But it seems that Mr M generally maintained his repayments until 
November 2018  over a year after he opened the credit facility. Mr M stopped making 
payments at this point and Shop Direct wasnt able to contact him to discuss this. And it 
doesnt seem that Mr M made contact with Shop Direct to ask for help, either.
 
In May 2019 a default notice was issued, and the account was later passed to a third-party 
debt collection agency. I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances.
After Mr M received our adjudicators view he mentioned that he was unhappy because 
interest continued to accrue during the course of the credit agreement and that he paid 
interest on the interest when it wasnt paid off. 
The terms and conditions of the agreement do explain how interest will be applied so I dont 
think Shop Direct acted unfairly here. Mr M entered into a Buy now, pay later arrangement 
as part of the lending agreement which deferred interest and was only applied at the end of 
a set period (in this case 12 months) if he hadnt paid the cash price in full by then. Again, I 
dont think this was unfair to Mr M.
On balance, I dont think Mr M lost out as a result of anything Shop Direct did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It follows that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman