DRN-4037429
The complaint
Mr A complains Nelson Insurance Company Ltd have unfairly declined his Car Insurance 
claim.
All references to Nelson also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having a vehicle stolen isnt a nice experience in any circumstances. And for this Mr A has 
my natural sympathy for whats happened. 
However, having reviewed everything available to me, I agree with the conclusions reached 
by the investigator and do not uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A will be disappointed 
by this, but Ill explain why.
Mr A said the initial Police report was incorrect and provided the police and Nelson 
with revised versions of events. This includes two different submissions of the 
version of events from representatives of Mr A. 
Having reviewed these, I can see they differ from the original  but also significantly 
from each other. And Ive not seen anything that supports either of these versions of 
events over what was initially provided to the Police, or which explains why they 
themselves differ so significantly.
Nelson said the initial Police report, which details the keys were left in the vehicle by 
Mr A, is likely a more accurate reflection of what happened.
Because of this, Nelson concluded Mr A hadnt taken precautions to safeguard his 
vehicle, a general condition of the policy, and declined his claim.
On reviewing everything available to me, Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
Nelson have acted unfairly here. So, I dont think its decision to decline the claim is 
obviously wrong.
Mr A said he was in shock when he provided the initial report to the police and 
explained his use of English is limited. However, for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont think Nelson have acted incorrectly in relying on the police report as likely being 
the most accurate description of events.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman