DRN-4131341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined their 
travel insurance claim and about its service. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs G took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover their 
multi-destination trip through Europe from 8 to 20 September 2022 which included a 7 day 
cruise. The relevant sections of the policy were insured by Red Sands. 
On 11 September 2022, a few days into the trip, Mr G began to feel very unwell. To board 
the cruise on 12 September he and Mrs G had to sign a no Covid-19 declaration so he did a 
lateral flow test (LFT) for Covid-19 and unfortunately tested positive. The positive test meant 
he and Mrs G were unable to board the cruise ship or continue the trip as planned. The tour 
provider told them they had to return to the UK. 
On 11 September 2022 Mr and Mrs G contacted Red Sands to tell it about the situation. 
Red Sands said the policy wouldnt cover any additional expenses they incurred as a result 
of testing positive for Covid-19 as they hadnt taken out the Overseas Return Quarantine 
Endorsement (ORQE) with the policy. The tour provider arranged for flights to return Mr and 
Mrs G to the UK on 12 September 2022 which Mr and Mrs G paid for.
On their return Mr and Mrs G made a curtailment claim for their unused and additional costs. 
Red Sands declined the claim saying that as it hadnt approved the return home it couldnt 
consider the claim. It also said Mr and Mrs G could have continued with their trip once Mr G 
had tested negative for Covid-19.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Red Sands. In response it asked for proof of a positive Covid-
19 test. Mr G sent Red Sands a photograph of the LFTs hed taken between 11 and 
18 September 2022 and provided evidence of the tests being recorded on the NHS website 
on 14 September 2022. He said hed been unable to record the test results on the website 
before 14 September as he didnt have access to a computer until that date. 
Red Sands declined the claim again. It said it didnt accept photographs of LFTs as proof of 
Covid-19 and as Mr G couldnt provide proof of him testing positive before cutting short the 
trip on 12 September 2022 the claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs G complained to us about Red Sands handling and decline of their claim. They 
want Red Sands to pay their claim in full.
Our investigator said Red Sands had unfairly declined the claim. He recommended that 
Red Sands pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms plus interest and pay Mr and 
Mrs G £100 compensation for their distress and inconvenience its poor handling of their 
claim caused.
Mr and Mrs G accepted our investigators recommendation. Red Sands didnt respond to our 
investigators recommendation despite him chasing it for a response several times so the 
complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Red Sands has had fair opportunity to respond to our investigators 
recommendation. It hasnt done so and I think its reasonable for me to now make a decision 
on the complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think Red Sands unreasonably declined the claim and handled the claim unfairly. I uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
The trip was cut short due to Mr G testing positive for Covid-19. The curtailment section of 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy says:
We will pay:
Up to the amount shown in the schedule of cover for your proportional share of any 
unused pre-paid accommodation, car hire and excursions that are directly related to 
your trip, which you have paid and cannot get back from anyone else in the first 
instance, or which cannot be transferred or used for another purpose, as well as any 
additional travel expenses incurred to get you home.
If:
... you, anyone insured on this policy, or a travel companion, were diagnosed with an 
infectious disease during your trip (including contracting Covid-19)
Provided:
... you are able to provide evidence from a medical professional confirming the 
illness, infectious disease, injury or death.
So Mr and Mrs Gs policy covered any unused accommodation/excursions and additional 
travel expenses to return home if Mr and/or Mrs G were diagnosed with Covid-19, which is 
what happened to Mr G.
In order to consider the claim for these costs Red Sands asked Mr G to provide proof of 
testing positive for Covid-19, which I think is a reasonable request and in line with the above 
policy terms. Red Sands then said it wouldnt accept Mr Gs photograph of his positive LFTs 
from 11 September as proof because it couldnt tell the date of the tests or who the tests 
belonged to. But in this case Mr and Mrs G first contacted Red Sands on 11 September 
before they returned to the UK to tell it about the situation, so Im satisfied that Mr G had 
tested positive for Covid-19 on that date. Hes provide evidence of the LFTs hed taken and 
his explanation as to why he wasnt able to log the results on the NHS website until 
14 September 2022 is understandable and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The policy says Mr and Mrs G need to provide evidence from a medical professional 
confirming the illness (or) infectious disease. But I accept Mr and Mrs Gs evidence as to 
why he didnt physically visit a doctors surgery either abroad or when back in the UK. As 
people were told not to visit the GP if they had tested positive for Covid-19 I think Mr Gs 
decision was reasonable.In the all circumstances I think its reasonable for Red Sands to accept the LFTs evidence 
that Mr G provided as sufficient evidence that he had tested positive for Covid-19 from 
11 September 2022.
Red Sands also suggested Mr and Mrs G could have stayed abroad and continue the trip 
once he tested negative for Covid-19. I dont think Red Sands could reasonably reject the 
claim on that basis. Mr Gs positive result meant he and Mrs G couldnt start the 7 days 
cruise the next day and by the time Mr G tested negative on 17 September the cruise was 
several hundred kilometres away in another country. 
I dont think its reasonable for Red Sands to have expected Mr and Mrs G to join the cruise 
at that stage. Red Sands have a letter from the tour provider saying that Mr and Mrs Gs 
holiday came to an end in the city they were in when Mr G tested positive. And even if they 
could have theoretically joined the cruise after 17 September, the practical issues mean that 
I think its unlikely that could have happened and even if they had joined there would have 
been additional travel costs which Red Sands may have had to pay. Anyway Im satisfied 
that an insured event under the curtailment section of the policy happened.
Red Sands should pay the claim as Ive detailed below.
Red Sands unfairly handled Mr and Mrs Gs claim. It gave them conflicting information about 
why it was declining the claim. It told Mr and Mrs G there was no cover for their 
circumstances because they hadnt bought ORQE cover for the policy when their 
circumstances were an insured event under the policy they had. 
Its clear from Mr Gs correspondence with Red Sands that its unfair handling of the claim 
caused him and Mrs G considerable frustration. Red Sands has given no reason why it 
shouldnt pay compensation and I think our investigators recommendation of £100 
compensation is a reasonable amount to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
Red Sands unfair handling of the claim caused.
Putting things right
Red Sands should pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms plus interest as Ive 
detailed below. It should also pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its unfair service caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms plus interest at 8% simple a year 
from the date of claim to the date of settlement, and 
pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its unfair 
handling of the claim caused.*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs G how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman