DRN-3634303
The complaint
This complaint is about the way in which The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform has 
dealt with Mr Bs mortgage account after the term came to an end in 2019. 
To settle the complaint Mr B wants Platform to reimburse all interest and costs charged by 
Platform from 1 July 2021, the cost to Mr B of taking out bridging finance (£9,163.75) 
compensation for additional stamp duty (£7,000) paid by the buyer of the property because 
completion took place after 30 June 2021. In addition, Mr B would like compensation of 
£5,000 for stress and anxiety caused.
The complaint has been brought on Mr Bs behalf by a family member, Mrs B, but for clarity I 
will refer primarily to Mr B. 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence so 
I dont need to repeat everything thats happened here. The investigator set out a detailed 
timeline of events in his letter dated 20 June 2022, a copy of which all parties have received. 
So rather than repeat all the background here I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr B or Mrs B being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr B had an interest-only mortgage with Platform taken out in 2006 over a ten-year term. 
The mortgage was originally in the joint names of Mr B and his wife. I am sorry to note that 
she passed away in October 2019. On the mortgage application from 2006, it is stated that 
the mortgage would be repaid by future sale of property, prior to the end of the term and 
this is also stated in the mortgage offer.
The mortgage term came  to an end in 2016 but the balance wasnt repaid. In 2019 Platform 
took possession of the property. Platform marketed the property for sale, but the sale 
couldnt go ahead due to issues with the title to the property and a parcel of land that hadnt 
been correctly registered at the time Mr B had purchased the property, some years before 
the mortgage with Platform was taken out. Mr B was subsequently able to acquire this land, 
but it didnt form part of the property secured by the mortgage. But the issue with this land 
meant Platform couldnt sell and Mr B also wasnt able to go ahead with an equity release 
mortgage in 2019.
Resolving these legal issues led to delay in further action being taken, and in 2020 the 
pandemic also impacted on the abilities of both Mr B and Platform to progress matters.
By 2021 the legal issues had been resolved and Mr B wanted to sell the property, but 
Platform wouldnt agree to this. Mrs B then agreed to buy the property from Mr B, but this 
was outside Platforms policy and so it wasnt able to consent to this.
In September 2021 the mortgage was repaid via a bridging loan and Mr B then sold the 
property to Mrs B.
Mr B complained about the way Platform had handled things. Mr B thought Platform had 
agreed he could market and sell the property, and that hed be able to go back into the 
property to redecorate and carry out improvements before doing so. He also thought it 
wasnt fair that Platform wouldnt allow him to sell the property to a family member, Mrs B.
Platform didnt uphold the complaint, so it was raised with our service. An investigator looked 
at what had happened. In a detailed letter dated 20 June 2022 he gave his reasons why he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The investigator also looked at detailed further 
points raised by Mrs B about the transaction and provided detailed responses to her, but 
didnt change his mind. He thought Platform had acted fairly.
Mr B still didnt think Platform had done the right thing and so it now falls to me to issue a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Ive also noted all the points Mrs B has made in relation to her involvement in the matter. But 
Mrs B is not a party to this complaint; she is representing Mr B in the same way as other 
consumers might employ a solicitor or accountant to represent them. The role of a 
representative is to bring the complaint on behalf of the consumer, not to raise their own 
grievances against the business or make any claim for their own losses. So although Ive 
read everything Mrs B has said, my review of this complaint is limited solely to the events as 
they relate to Mr B.
I am very sorry to note that Mr Bs wife passed away suddenly in 2019. I know this has been 
a very upsetting and stressful time for the family. However, I have to review the complaint on 
the basis of the evidence, and not be swayed by emotion. So although I acknowledge what a 
difficult time this has been for Mr B, Im afraid that I have disappointing news for him; Im not 
upholding the complaint.
Having reviewed everything thats happened, I dont think Platform has treated Mr B unfairly.The starting point is that the mortgage should have been repaid in 2016. It was reasonable 
for Platform to allow a short time to enable Mr B to raise the funds to repay the mortgage, 
but when that hadnt happened by 2019, three years after the term had expired, Platform 
was entitled to take possession.
I can see how important it was for Mr B to want to get back into the property, and in 2019 
hed had an offer of an equity release mortgage. This didnt go ahead, for reasons that 
werent anything to do with Platform, but were because a parcel of land hadnt been properly 
registered with the title. This wasnt something for which I can hold Platform responsible. It 
was a conveyancing issue that should have been identified when Mr B bought the property 
in 1984.
Unfortunately, resolving this issue led to delays in progressing any attempts by Mr B to repay 
the mortgage, or by Platform to sell the property. In addition, the pandemic in 2020 resulted 
in delay, again for reasons outside the control either of Mr B or Platform.
In early 2021 Mr Bs solicitors approached Platform about selling the property. I can see from 
the e-mail exchange that the parties were at cross-purposes here. Mr B was under the 
impression that he was allowed to go into the property so he could re-decorate and sell it 
himself. Platform, however, wouldnt permit this. 
I dont think this was unreasonable of Platform. Once a lender has taken possession, there is 
no obligation to allow the borrower back into possession; indeed, this creates an additional 
risk for the lender, because if the borrower refuses to leave, the lender has to go back to 
court for a Warrant of Restitution. So for that reason, lenders will not usually allow a 
borrower to re-enter a property once its been repossessed.
I can understand that Mr B still thought of it as his property, but from a legal perspective, it 
was not. Platform was entitled to want to retain control of the marketing and sale.
In the spring of 2021 Platform was led to believe that Mr B had a source of funds to enable 
him to repay the mortgage. Im satisfied that it wasnt until late June 2021 that Platform first 
became aware that the proposal was actually for the property to be sold to Mrs B. This was 
outside Platforms policy. 
Im satisfied Platform was entitled to withhold its consent to this sale. Its important when a 
property is taken into possession that any sale is what is called an arms length transaction. 
This means the parties to the transaction are acting independently and have no relationship 
to one another. That wasnt the case here, as Mrs B was a family member of Mr B and so I 
think Platform was justified in saying that it wouldnt accept redemption of the mortgage 
direct from Mrs B on a purchase by her of the property.
I think its likely Mr Bs solicitors didnt fully appreciate the implications of a sale to a family 
member where the property is in possession by the mortgagee, or that Mr B in fact had no 
legal power to sell the property once Platform had taken possession. The only thing Platform 
would consent to  reasonably in my opinion  was redemption of the mortgage by way of 
funds provided directly by Mr B.
I acknowledge that it was inconvenient and costly for Mr B to take out bridging finance in 
order to pay off the mortgage, and then repay the bridging finance by selling the property to 
Mrs B. However, Im not persuaded that it was unfair of Platform to withhold its consent to 
the sale of the property to Mrs B. Platform is entitled to decide the level of risk to which it is 
prepared to be exposed, and I think from a legal perspective, Platforms stance was justified.Because Mrs B isnt a party to the complaint, her claim for the additional stamp duty she had 
to pay when she eventually purchased the property from Mr B isnt something that falls 
within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. But after taking everything Mrs B (on his 
behalf) and Platform have said, and after careful evaluation of all the evidence, Im unable to 
find Platform did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman