DRN-1422143
The complaint
Mr J complains about issues he's experienced with a car supplied with finance from Close 
Brothers Limited.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr J was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers.
Mr J experienced issues with the car including insecure engine mounts, engine noise and 
shaking. He reported the issues to the supplying dealer but was unable to resolve things, so 
he complained to Close Brothers.
Close Brothers contacted the dealer who said it would carry out repairs. It replaced the 
engine mounts, changed the timing chain and gave the car a full service.
Following the repairs, Mr J still had concerns about a banging noise from the engine. Close 
Brothers arranged for an independent inspection. The engineer concluded that there was a 
noise from the engine once it warmed up and that further investigations were required.
Mr J continued to experienced issues with the car losing power and shaking. He reported 
these issues to the supplying dealer but no further repairs have been carried out. Mr J says 
he's had to stop using the car because it shakes uncontrollably.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service. He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the supplying dealer had already had one 
opportunity to repair the car and that the repairs hadn't been successful. She thought Mr J 
should be allowed to reject the car.
Close Brothers didn't reply to the investigators view, so I've been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, there's an 
implied term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all the relevant 
information including (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid.
Where a fault occurs within the first 6 months there's a presumption that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can show otherwise. The 
business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the repair isn't successful the 
consumer can reject the car.I can see that Mr J experienced issued with the car within a week of collecting it. The issues 
included the car shaking and noise from the engine. The car was returned to the supplying 
dealer for repairs but Mr J continued to experience issues with the car losing power and 
shaking. The independent inspection carried out in May 2019 concluded that the car had 
unexpected engine noise and that the fault codes displayed were possible related to the big 
ends or VVT units. It also found pressurisation of the coolant after the road test.
Close Brothers has said that it spoke to the dealer who stated that it hadn't been made 
aware of any issues since it carried out the repairs. Mr J provided screenshots of text 
messages which showed that he'd contacted the dealer in May, June and July 2019 to make 
it aware of the ongoing issues. This service has confirmed with the dealer that it hasn't 
carried out any further repairs since the first repairs in January 2019.
 
Putting things right
Based on what I've seen, and taking into account all the available evidence including the 
independent inspection, I'm persuaded that the repairs carried out by the dealer were 
unsuccessful. The independent inspection report mentions unexplained engine noise and 
identified some fault codes. Given that the independent inspection was carried out shortly 
after the car had been repaired, and attributing due weight to Mr J's testimony that he 
continued to experience shaking and engine noise after the repairs had been carried out, I 
think its more likely than not that these faults were present or developing at the point of 
supply and that the repairs were unsuccessful. Under the relevant legislation, Mr J is allowed 
to reject the car.
I can see that the car hasn't covered much mileage since the independent inspection was 
carried out in May 2019. Given that Mr J had to return the car to the supplying dealer for 
repairs on more than one occasion, and taking into account that he's had to make 
arrangements for alternative transport, I think it's reasonable to ask Close Brothers to 
compensate him for the inconvenience he's suffered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr J
Refund Mr J's deposit of £500 together with 8% interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund 3 x monthly instalments for loss of use 
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience 
Remove any adverse information from Mr J's credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman