DRN-2979843
The complaint
Miss K complains that Equifax Limited has changed her credit score despite her 
circumstances remaining broadly consistent. 
What happened
In June 2019 and July 2019 Miss K viewed her Equifax credit file and noted her score was 
477 and rated excellent. In September 2019 she again viewed her credit file and the score 
had dropped to 357 with a rating as poor. She believed nothing had changed on her report to 
warrant this change and complained to Equifax.
In its final response Equifax set out a list of possible factors which could change her score 
including that the credit rating indicates where Miss K stands compared to the overall 
borrowing population and it noted her borrowing level had decreased. Miss K said Equifax 
had proven her case because nothing detrimental had occurred and her borrowings had 
gone down. She said she hadnt taken any further loans, missed any payments or been late 
with any payments. She said her account was exactly as it was in June and July and Equifax 
had caused her to appear to lenders as a poor borrower. She said she had been refused a 
mortgage based on this incorrect credit score and her property had been repossessed.
Our investigator didnt think Equifax had acted incorrectly in the way it handled Miss Ks 
credit report. He said Equifaxs credit score is their own interpretation of a consumers 
financial position and this score is not shared with lenders. He said lenders would be 
provided with the credit report not Equifaxs score or summaries such as excellent or 
poor.
Miss K rejected this view. She said there was no explanation as to why Equifax had reduced 
her credit score. She said lenders had relied on Equifaxs credit score and rating to 
determine her credit worthiness. Miss K said it hadnt been shown that she had done 
something that would have allowed Equifax to reduce her credit score and rating. She asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I wrote a provisional decision on 12 March 2021. I said: 
Firstly, I can see this has been quite stressful for Miss K and I sympathise with her 
situation. Ive been provided with a lot of evidence and submissions in this case - 
particularly from Miss K. I thank her for this as its enabled me to better understand the 
details of her complaint. Ive read all the evidence which has been sent to me and taken 
it on board but if I dont comment on every aspect its because I dont think I need to in 
order to reach my decision.
Miss K would like to know why her credit score dropped when her circumstances 
remained broadly consistent. Equifax provided an explanation as to why the score may 
have changed between July and September. It explained there are lots of factors 
involved in creating the credit score. And these factors can change, as can the 
algorithms used to create the score.
Ultimately it is up to Equifax to decide what factors to consider and how to build its credit 
score. This is not something I can interfere with. However, it would be Equifaxs 
responsibility if, for example, it put the wrong details on the file from a lender, or if data 
had been flagged by a customer as wrong and Equifax didnt make any enquiries. So, in 
order to establish whether Equifax has acted fairly I can look to see if there may be any 
incorrect information on the credit file.
Ive looked at the Equifax credit file for June, July and September 2019 and I note that 
Miss K has a second mortgage with another provider, F. The details of the mortgage 
with F have been recorded as follows:
On the report dated:
14 June 2019 - the balance is £9,214, updated 6 June 2018;
10 July 2019 - the balance is £9,214, updated 6 June 2018;
4 Sep 2019 - the balance is £9,285, updated 17 July 2019.
There are no adverse markers recorded.
Miss K provided a copy of her bank statements to evidence she made the payments to 
F on time. I asked Equifax to clarify what information it received from F, and when, to 
establish if the credit file was updated in a timely manner. I also, with Miss Ks 
permission, asked F to confirm when it had sent updates to Equifax. Equifax responded 
to my request, but I didnt receive any information from F.
Equifax told me F did not provide it with data so the last update on the July report was 
from June 2018. It said the balance increased to £9,285 when F provided its update on 
17 July 2019. It said the July update was the only update it could see. It went on to say 
the F account was the only account which showed the current balance had increased 
between June and September 2019 and this would explain the drop in score.
It is the lenders responsibility to ensure correct data is given to credit reference 
agencies. So, in this instance it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Equifax responsible if that 
information was inaccurate. And I note on Miss Ks credit file from another provider that 
there was also a gap in reporting from F.
Equifax provided an explanation to Miss K about why her score reduced. But it didnt 
include an explanation of the inconsistent reporting from F and what effect this may 
have had on her credit score between July and September. Im satisfied Equifax did not 
cause an error, but Im persuaded it could have explained the data better to Miss K. So, 
subject to any further information I might receive from either party Im minded to instruct 
Equifax to pay Miss K £200 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her.
Miss K complains she was denied a mortgage because of her Equifax credit score 
which, from June to September dropped from 477 excellent to 357 poor. She is adamant 
the score of 357 with the poor rating is the reason she was denied finance. Miss K 
provided evidence in the form of screen shots that the lender accessed her credit report 
at the time when she needed a mortgage to prevent her property from being 
repossessed. Equifax explained the credit score calculated by Equifax and provided to 
Miss K is not given to lenders. The lender will see the contents of the credit file, as the 
potential lender has in this case, evidenced by Miss Ks screenshot. But even if this 
lender did see the Equifax credit score, which I think unlikely, I dont believe I have 
enough evidence to be satisfied the decision by the mortgage lender was because of 
this drop in score and that Equifax made an error. I do think it more likely the lender 
made its decision based on its own score which may have included the content of the 
report itself and other information Miss K provided, or the lender had access to. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss K, but I hope Ive been able to give 
her some clarity on what I believe has happened.
Miss K accepted my provisional decision although was disappointed with the compensation 
of only £200. Equifax disputed my provisional decision on the basis that it believed 
complaints related to its own credit score did not fall within this services jurisdiction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I believe my provisional decision still stands. Equifax has raised a question 
over the Financial Ombudsman Services (FOS) jurisdiction in relation to this complaint. 
Specifically, it said:
The Equifax score system is a complex system based on algorithms. One single 
change in data can change multiple chrematistics that impacts a score and it doesnt 
tell us the reasoning behind a change in the score. The score is an extra service that 
we provide to consumers and this isnt a regulated activity under your rules. 
As advised, we do not provide our credit score to lenders, it is there purely as a 
guideline only, the lenders use their own systems to calculate their own score and 
this is advised to consumers.
So it therefore does not impact a credit worthiness or a lenders decision.
Making a complaint to the FOS about their Equifax score isnt going to change 
anything with the Equifax score product itself. Miss K did not dispute anything on her 
report meaning the Equifax score was correctly calculating the information provided 
by the lender. Her complaint relates purely on the Equifax Score.
The rules under which I am obliged to operate are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
Rules published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. These say we 
can only look at complaints about regulated activities. The relevant rules here say providing 
credit information services or credit references are regulated activities under articles 89A 
and 89B of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
Equifax has said that its credit score is not a regulated activity. It has referred to two other 
separate complaints brought to this service. Its important to note that my role is to look at 
the individual circumstances of each complaint when making a decision. So while Miss Ks 
complaint may be similar to others I must decide the outcome based on the details of her 
specific complaint. 
Our service has explained to Equifax that we are satisfied this falls within our jurisdiction; we 
are able to consider complaints about credit scoring. We explained that weve not seen 
anything in legislation or law that specifically excludes this from the regulated activity of 
providing credit references. But even if this is wrong, our service considers credit scoring 
to be ancillary to that regulated activity. I accept that these scores are Equifaxs own score 
and are not made available to prospective lenders or other third party organisations. 
However, the very nature of how the score is calculated comes from that individuals own 
financial standing and the information that is held and known about that individual. While 
some cases may well fail on their merits (because lenders arent privy to the score), that doesnt mean we are unable to consider them. Equifax has not responded to this 
clafification.
Equifax has said Miss K did not dispute anything on her report meaning the Equifax score 
was correctly calculated. Im not disputing the score was correctly calculated based on the 
information provided by third parties, but Im persuaded Miss K did dispute her report. She 
did not understand why her score had gone down given her circumstances hadnt changed. 
And on that basis she wasnt to know if the problem was the calculation or the information. 
Its reasonable to expect Equifax to be able to help her understand what the underlying issue 
was. As there were inconsistencies in the reporting from one specific lender I do think 
Equifax could have explained to Miss K how these inconsistencies may have impacted its 
calculation of her credit score, even if it wasnt responsible for them. 
Equifax did not provide any further evidence or arguments relating to my assessment of the 
particulars of Miss Ks complaint and Miss K accepted my analysis. So I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions in my provisional decision. 
Miss K was disappointed with the compensation of £200. I do understand Miss Ks 
frustration. But as I explained in my provisional decision Equifax isnt responsible for the 
incorrect data. That is Fs responsibility. But Equifax could have helped her understand her 
report better and I consider £200 fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Putting things right
My decision is, for the reasons outlined above, to instruct Equifax Limited to pay
Miss K £200 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her.
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint and instruct Equifax Limited to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman