DRN-3004697
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined her critical illness claim.
In bringing her complaint to our service Mrs K has been assisted by a third party but, for 
ease of reference, Ill only refer to Mrs K.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mrs K joined her employers group critical illness scheme in April 2017, which provides her 
£10,000 of cover. Before joining the scheme, Mrs K was diagnosed with several medical 
conditions including pernicious anaemia, fibromyalgia and temporomandibular disorders 
(TMD).
Mrs K made a critical illness claim for total and permanent disability (TPD) and loss of 
independent existence (LOIE). The claim was made in relation to conditions Mrs K has been 
diagnosed with since October 2017. This includes  but isnt limited to  anxiety and 
depressive disorder, spondylitis, carpel tunnel and tendonitis, dercum disease and 
patellofemoral disease. 
Aviva rejected the claim and so Mrs K complained about their decision. Aviva responded to 
the complaint but their position didnt change. In short, theyve said:
They havent established whether the policy definition for either TPD or LOIE has 
been met. But theyve declined the claim as they know they wont be able to accept it 
because the associated conditions clause applies. 
The associated conditions clause applies indefinitely for TPD and LOIE. 
Mrs K suffered from listed associated conditions for TPD before cover commenced 
and so they cannot pay a claim under that definition  this is the case even if the 
conditions Mrs K has been diagnosed with since cover commenced are unrelated to 
the pre-cover symptoms and conditions. 
Although they cant see Mrs K has suffered a listed associated condition for LOIE, it 
is their chief medical officers (CMO) opinion that her pre-cover conditions are related 
to her inability to work. And so, they would therefore be related to any inability to 
perform the tasks listed under LOIE.
They noted Mrs Ks point that the conditions and symptoms shes suffered from after 
joining the scheme are, in their own right, causing a permanent and total incapacity 
to work as well as a loss of independent existence. And that these are un-associated 
to any of the medical problems she had before cover commenced. Aviva however 
referred to submissions that Mrs K gave to our service in January 2020  relating to a 
separate income protection claim  where they felt she explained her inability to carry 
out LOIE tasks were because, or at least partly related, to pre-policy diagnoses. 
The matter was considered by one of our investigators but she didnt think Aviva had unfairly 
declined the claim. In short, she said:
In respect of TPD, she acknowledged Mrs Ks point that the conditions claimed for 
arent related to her pre-existing conditions. However, as Mrs K was diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia and suffered from chronic pain and fatigue, she had a listed associated 
condition before joining the scheme.  And the associated conditions exclusion applies 
even if the current incapacity is unrelated to the associated condition(s). 
In respect of LOIE, she explained there wasnt anything to show Mrs K had suffered 
from any of the specific LOIE associated conditions. 
However, she noted that Mrs K previously said that the fibromyalgia (and other 
impairments) made it difficult to cope on a daily basis, and impacted on her anxiety 
and depression. And so, she could understand why Aviva had concluded that Mrs Ks 
inability to perform the tasks under the LOIE definition may, at least partly, relate to 
fibromyalgia. And the policy excludes claims were the critical illness is related to an 
existing symptom or condition. 
She also thought the opinion of the CMO was persuasive in that they considered it 
would be difficult to separate specific symptoms and say that they are caused by one 
condition rather than another. 
Because of this, and in the absence of any compelling medical evidence to show 
Mrs Ks incapacity isnt in any way connected to the associated conditions, she didnt 
think Aviva were unfairly applying the associated conditions clause. 
Mrs K disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to reassure Mrs K that Ive 
given careful consideration to the points shes raised. I dont underestimate the severity of 
her health conditions or the impact they have on her. But, what I must consider here is 
whether Aviva has fairly declined the claim. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs 
K but I think they have and for similar reasons to that of our investigator. Ill explain why.
The relevant policy terms say:
1 What benefits are covered
The purpose of this policy is to pay a lump sum benefit if a member or child is:
diagnosed with a critical illness;Critical illnesses are defined as an illness covered by this policy. The policy schedule will 
show whether the policyholder chose Standard or Extended cover. Mrs Ks policy 
schedule shows that it provides extended cover, which includes LOIE, as well as TPD as an 
additional cover benefit. 
The policy terms then go on to say:
9 What is not covered?...
Associated critical illnesses and operations
We will not pay claims if the member or child has had an associated condition 
prior to the date they joined your policy (whether this was insured with us or another 
insurer).

For all critical illnesses and operations, except for:
total permanent disability;
loss of independent existence  permanent and irreversible 
paralysis of limbs  total and irreversible;
if a member or child does not suffer the critical illness or undergo an operation 
during the first two years from the date they joined your policy (whether this was 
insured with us [or] another insurer) we will not exclude claims due to an associated 
condition. 
This means that for LOIE or TPD critical illness claims, the two-year limit doesnt apply for 
associated conditions. And so, the associated conditions clause applies indefinitely 
throughout the period of cover for any claims relating to these critical illnesses. 
Associated conditions are defined as:
Any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease or treatment which is either;
recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the 
occurrence of a critical illness or operation, or
is listed in the associated conditions column of the critical illness/operation 
table which begins on page 4. 
Aviva has relied on the associated conditions clause to decline Mrs Ks critical illness 
claim(s) for both TPD and LOIE. Ill firstly look at whether theyve acted fairly by applying it 
for the TPD claim.
The associated conditions clause requires only one part of the definition to be met. And the 
listed associated conditions column for TPD includes: 
Multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, motor neurone disease, or any disease or 
disorder of the brain, spinal cord or column. Arthritis. Chronic or recurrent mental 
illness. Chronic or recurrent back, neck, joint or muscle pain. Chronic or current 
fatigue. Mrs K has explained to our service that fibromyalgia has caused her to suffer from chronic 
fatigue and bodily pains  which are common symptoms for this condition. As Mrs K was 
diagnosed with fibromyalgia before joining the scheme, Im satisfied that she had an 
associated condition before cover commenced. And, as the associated condition clause 
applies indefinitely for TPD critical illness claims, it follows that I think Aviva can apply it 
here.
I understand Mrs K says that the conditions she has been diagnosed with since joining the 
scheme are separate from her to her fibromyalgia symptoms. That however isnt the test 
here. The policy terms are in clear in that the exclusion applies in the event the member has 
any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease or treatment for a listed associated 
condition. As per the above, Mrs K has suffered symptoms of at least one of the listed 
associated conditions before she joined the scheme. Because of this, I think Aviva has fairly 
applied the associated conditions clause for Mrs Ks TPD critical illness claim. 
The LOIE critical illness claim is however somewhat different as the list of associated 
conditions isnt as comprehensive as those for TPD. The list includes multiple sclerosis, 
muscular dystrophy, motor neurone disease, or any disease or disorder of the brain, spinal 
cord or column. I understand Mrs K hasnt had any symptoms or diagnoses related to these 
listed conditions. So, this part of the associated conditions clause doesnt apply in this 
instance.
Aviva, however, has applied the exclusion clause on the basis that that Mrs K has had a 
symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease or treatment  prior to joining the scheme - which 
is recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the occurrence of a 
critical illness or operation.
At which point, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the critical illness here is 
LOIE. And so, Aviva hasnt tried to define the symptoms or conditions from which Mrs K 
suffers from as critical illnesses. Theyve only considered whether the conditions she was 
diagnosed with prior to joining the scheme, in the opinion of a medical specialist, are related 
to the occurrence of the LOIE (which is the critical illness). 
In Mrs Ks case, Aviva accept that fibromyalgia isnt listed in the associated condition column 
against claims for LOIE. But they say it is a condition/illness whereby the symptoms of it 
have, in part, led to Mrs Ks inability to perform the LOIE tasks. In support of their position, 
theyve referred to a submission Mrs K made to our service in January 2020. 
Within this submission, Mrs K says:
I refer to Avivas guidance at page 7 of the conditions relating to the Group Critical 
Illness Scheme which sets out the definition of loss of independence on a permanent 
basis. The guidance states that at least 3 of the 6 conditions have to be satisfied in 
order for me to be accepted as having loss of independent existence on a permanent 
and irreversible basis. 
Fibromyalgia and other impairments now make it difficult for me to cope on a daily 
basis. Fibromyalgia is chronic and permanent condition which is not reversible and 
which may cause further decline in my health. Bodily pains have had a significant 
effect on my physical and mental health and there is not a day that goes by that I do 
not suffer pain of some sort. These pains also impact on anxiety and depression and 
there are times, particularly when I am suffering more pain that normal, that I still feel 
frustrated, depressed and anxious about my healthAnd;
Fibromyalgia is a neurological disorder resulting from a chemical imbalance in the 
brain. This causes me swelling and numbness in my hands and feet. I also suffer 
from confusion, memory fog; delayed responses; difficulty planning and executing my 
plans. Problems with remembering names, dates and time. I forget to take my 
medication, complete tasks and become easily distracted. Fibromyalgia is known to 
be associated with anxiety and depression and is adversely affected by this. 
Fibromyalgia is a chronic and permanent condition that falls within the meaning of 
critical illness conditions set out at page 3 of Avivas guidance. It is irreversible and it 
is not going to improve. If anything, as a progressive condition, this may cause 
further deterioration in my health. 
Fibromyalgia, TMD, tinnitus all have physical and psychological impact on my health.
I suffer from chronic fatigue on a regular basis. This causes what is best described as 
flu like symptoms, headaches and bodily pains, in particular effecting my joints. 
Swollen lymph nodes in my neck and arm pits. Extreme fatigue often restricts me to 
bed for a couple of days or so. Regular afternoon naps. Forgetfulness, sore throat, 
difficulty swallowing, eating and talking. 
I appreciate Mrs K suffers from various other conditions that have been diagnosed since 
joining the scheme. And that she says these, in their own right, have independently caused 
her LOIE. However, I think the above statements from Mrs K make it clear that her 
fibromyalgia  which was diagnosed prior to joining the scheme  impacts her ability to cope 
on a daily basis and is a cause of her LOIE. From this, I think its reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude that this would therefore affect her ability to complete the LOIE tasks. 
I think its also relevant that Avivas CMO says fibromyalgia is a spectrum disorder with 
much overlap of psychological and physical features. It is impossible to differentiate specific 
symptoms and signs and absolutely define them as caused by one particular diagnosis as 
opposed to another. I consider this medical opinion to be persuasive in explaining that it 
would be difficult to differentiate between the symptoms Mrs K experiences from her multiple 
diagnosed conditions  and also whether the symptoms started in the period before Mrs K 
joined the scheme or after. 
Because of this, I think Aviva have acted fairly  and in line with the policy terms  by 
concluding Mrs Ks fibromyalgia is related to the occurrence of the LOIE (the critical illness) 
claimed for. And again, as the associated condition clause applies indefinitely for LOIE 
critical illness claims, it follows that I dont consider it unreasonable for Aviva to apply it here.
I understand Mrs K is considering the possibility of obtaining a private medical report to 
support her claim. But, as she is aware, therell likely be a cost in doing so. I therefore 
appreciate why she is weighing up this option against the policy benefit that would be 
payable if the claim is successful. This is a decision for Mrs K to make but, if further medical 
evidence is obtained, then she should first share it with Aviva for their consideration.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs K is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Aviva has unfairly declined her critical illness claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman