DRN-4386815
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that hes been charged a fee for the packaged bank account hes held with 
National Westminster Bank Plc for many years.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr O opened a fee-free account in 1993 which was converted to an Advantage Premier 
packaged account in 1999. It was migrated to a fee-free Black Account in 2012 when 
NatWest decided to streamline its product range. And then it was switched to a Premier 
Reward Black packaged bank account in 2016. Mr O closed the account in January of 
this year.
Mr O recalls being told he had to convert to a packaged bank account in 1999 in order to 
be given the mortgage he wanted. He says he didnt realise he was being charged a fee 
as he doesnt read his statements or open any post or read any emails hes sent in 
relation to his account. 
NatWest says Mr O would have chosen to upgrade his account and its records show the 
second upgrade was actioned in branch. He would have been given information which 
would have helped him decide whether the account was right for him given the costs and 
benefits. And hes benefited from the rewards paid to him over the years since the most 
recent conversion.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint and didnt think NatWest mis-sold 
the account. Mr O disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Os complaint. Having done so, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for much the same reasons. I note, in 
particular that:
Given the length of time thats passed, I dont think its unreasonable NatWest hasnt 
been able to provide much information or documentation from the time that the various 
account changes took place. Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, 
my role is to make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  
keeping in mind everything Ive seen and have been told by both parties.
In his submissions, Mr O has focussed on the original account conversion that took place 
in 1999. On the one hand he suggests he knew his account was being changed in order 
to get the mortgage he wanted, but he also says he didnt realise he was being charged. 
Those two arguments seem somewhat at odds with each other  he knew something 
was changing, but didnt know what.
Mr O held fee-free accounts before and in between holding packaged accounts, for a 
number of years. I think its unlikely the conversions happened without some direct 
intervention from Mr O.
I accept Mr O has given an honest recollection of what happened. But given the time 
thats passed, I dont think its more like than not that NatWest changed Mr Os account 
twice to a packaged one without his knowledge or consent just because its unable to 
provide evidence. Or that it didnt provide sufficient, clear information about the fees and 
related benefits in order for him to make an informed choice about the changes. 
Ive seen nothing which suggests Mr O couldnt, or hasnt, derived benefits from holding 
these accounts. Its possible he hasnt taken advantage of all the benefits on offer, and 
for which he was eligible, over the years. But that doesnt mean the fees should be 
refunded. And its possible the reason he hasnt made the most of the benefits on offer is 
because, by his own admission, hes chosen not to read any of the correspondence that 
NatWest has sent him over the years.
Overall, having considered the circumstances surrounding this complaint, Im not persuaded 
I cant fairly instruct NatWest to refund any of the fees Mr O has been charged over the 
years.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman