DRN-2657211
The complaint
Ms O complains about the excess charged by American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) when she made a claim on her mobile phone insurance.
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to the parties so Ill only provide a summary 
of what happened.
Ms O has a packaged bank account with a high street bank which includes, as a 
benefit, mobile phone insurance underwritten by AIG
Her phone was damaged and Ms O contacted AIG to claim on her policy
She was offered the option of having the phone repaired - for which she would be 
charged an excess of £50 - but the approved repair shop local to her was closed 
because of Covid 19 
The next nearest approved repairer was many miles away and so Ms O opted to 
have the phone replaced for which she had to pay a £100 excess
She complained to AIG but it maintained its position. Our investigator said, bearing in 
mind the impact of Covid 19, she didnt think AIG had acted fairly and should refund 
the extra £50 Ms O had paid together with interest at 8% simple.
AIG disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When assessing complaints about insurance claims I will consider the terms and conditions 
of the policy in reaching my decision, but I will also keep in mind what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in those particular circumstances. And having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that AIG has acted unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The terms of the policy explain the excess that will be paid in the event of a claim, in 
this case £50 for a repair and £100 for a replacement
Covid 19 caused a number of impacts on society including the closure of retail outlets 
and restrictions on the ability to travel freely 
When discussing the claim, AIG agreed it wasnt practical at that time for Ms O to 
travel the significant distance to the nearest open repairer to have the phone repaired 
but it didnt offer any alternative options other than to have the phone replaced
In the end, Ms O had little choice but to accept the replacement phone and the higher 
excess that went with it as she was reliant on the phone for her work
Bearing in mind the impact of Covid 19 I mentioned above, I dont think it was 
reasonable for AIG to expect Ms O to travel as far as she would have had to, to have 
her phone repaired at this time
I think it could have done more to offer alternative solutions and while I acknowledge 
it says it doesnt do this for consumers with this particular level of cover, I think it 
would have been fair to do so in Ms Os particular circumstances at the time
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint and directing AIG to 
refund the £50 extra excess paid together with interest on top.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct American International Group UK 
Limited to pay Ms O £50 together with interest at 8% a year simple* from the day she paid 
the excess to the day the settlement is made.
 American International Group UK Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Ms O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple*.
* If American International Group UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms O a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman