DRN-3534315
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr A made three payments from his Monzo account, the details of which Ive 
set out below:
- £161.94 card payment on 19 June 2020
- £804 international payment (via a third-party payment service provider) on 8 July 
2020
- £4,002 international payment (via a third-party payment service provider) on 16 July 
2020
It appears he believed he was investing in an advertising scheme  where he would receive 
returns based on the number of people that clicked on adverts. 
Mr A did raise a query about the final payment in mid-July 2020, but he didnt report the 
matter as a scam until March 2021 after hed attempted to make a withdrawal from the 
platform. Monzo said he was too late to raise a dispute about the card payment through the 
card issuers chargeback scheme.  And because the other two payments were made 
internationally they werent covered under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code which requires it signatories to reimburse victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances (Monzo isnt a signatory to the Code 
but have agreed to adhere to its principles).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought that the £4,002 payment 
ought to have stood out as being unusual to Monzo and it should have spoken to Mr A 
before the payment took place. The investigators initial view was that such an intervention 
wouldnt have made a difference to Mr As decision to go ahead. But after further 
submissions from Mr A, they were satisfied that the scam had enough concerning features 
for Monzo to have recognised Mr A was at risk of financial harm from fraud. However, they 
also thought Mr A didnt carry out enough due diligence before going ahead with the 
investment, so they thought that liability for that payment should be split 50/50.
Monzo didnt agree that the payment should have stood out as being unusual and said it 
couldnt be expected to pick up on every slightly irregular payment. So, it said it had no 
reason to ask Mr A any questions about the payment. It also pointed to the various articles, 
blogs and warnings about scams that are available to customers on its application and 
website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr A authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. The payments were made using the services of a third-party 
payment service provider that allows users to make international payments from their Monzo 
account. As they were international payments, they arent covered under the provisions of 
the CRM Code. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In relation to the card payment, Mr A raised a dispute about it too long after it happened for 
Monzo to have raised a chargeback under the relevant scheme rules. So, Monzo couldnt 
have disputed it for Mr A. I also dont think, given its size, it should have stood out as being 
remarkable to Monzo and I dont think it made a mistake by letting the payment proceed. 
Ive reviewed Mr As bank statements for the six months prior to the disputed transactions 
and I cant see that hes made any other international payments in that time (or even in the 
six months before that). However, again taking into account its size, I dont think the first 
international payment should have caused Monzo concern.  By the time he made the £4,002 
payment, Mr A had, of course, made one other international payment, but the second 
international payment was by far the largest payment he made during that period and was 
being made to a new payee. Considering these factors, I think that payment (but not the two 
Mr A authorised before it) ought to have stood out as being unusual and suspicious. In the 
particular circumstances of this case, I think Monzo should have made further enquiries with 
Mr A before allowing the payment to proceed. 
Though this scam isnt as common as other kinds of trading-based investment scams, it did 
share many of the same features. Mr A was contacted out of the blue by a business which 
isnt regulated and was given an account manager. He was encouraged to make a small 
initial investment which appeared to rapidly gain in value, before being persuaded to invest 
larger amounts. Its not entirely clear how much profit hed supposedly made at the point he 
sent the £4,002 payment, but Mr A has provided screenshots to show that his total deposits 
of around $6,000 eventually yielded a return of over $78,000. If real, that would be quite an 
extraordinary (and entirely unrealistic) return.
While I wouldnt have expected Monzo to interrogate Mr A about the payment, theres no 
reason to think he wouldnt have revealed most, if not all, of the above information if asked a 
few simple, probing questions about what he was doing. And, confronted with that information, Monzo would have been in a position to give a very strong warning to Mr A that 
he was likely falling victim to a scam.
I cant know for sure whether such a warning would have dissuaded Mr A from making 
further payments, but taking into account the fact hed only invested a relatively modest 
amount before the £4,002 payment and in the absence of any evidence to suggest hed 
have carried on regardless, I think its more likely than not. 
Ive also considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility for what happened. He 
acknowledges that he didnt really carry out any significant research on the company that 
had made unsolicited contact with him. And, as already noted, though its not entirely clear 
how much profit Mr A thought hed made by the time the £4,002 payment was made, the 
returns he appears to be making were wholly unrealistic and simply too good to be true. Its 
also worth remembering that, from what I can see, this profit was being made from 
advertising revenue and its difficult to understand how such a source could have yielded 
such high short-term gains. 
So, I think the fair outcome here is that Monzo and Mr A share liability for the £4,002 
payment. Monzo should refund 50% of that loss. As I think its more likely than not that an 
intervention by Monzo would have prevented Mr As loss, I think interest should be paid from 
the date of the transaction to the date of settlement. Though I havent had sight of the 
account from which the funds came, Ive noted Mr As comments about his financial 
struggles since the fraud and I think its likely he would have used the money had it not been 
lost, so I think interest should be paid at 8% simple per annum. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Pay Mr A £2,001 
- Pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per annum from the date of the transaction 
to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman