DRN-1324604
 
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the compensation amount Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) offered 
following the payment of a claim which was previously declined. 
What happened
Mr N was self-employed and had an income protection policy. He made a claim in 2009 but 
Chubb declined it. Mr N didn't take it any further at that point. 
In 2019, following a conversation with a friend, Mr N contacted Chubb. Chubb reviewed the 
claim from 2009 and accepted it. The claim was settled and Chubb made a payment of 
£1,962.46 in total, which included 8% simple interest from the date of when the claim should 
have been settled. Chubb also paid £100 compensation to Mr N for the trouble and upset 
caused to him.
Mr N was unhappy with the compensation amount as he said the claim should have been 
paid in 2009. He said he was too ill to work and had to sell his tools and jewellery in order to 
buy food. Mr N says he wouldn't have faced the hardship had Chubb paid the claim when it 
should have in 2009.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she thought a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation was £250. She said because Chubb didn't pay the claim in 2009, 
this had a resulting impact on Mr N and caused him trouble and upset at an already difficult 
time for him. She recommended £250 compensation. 
Chubb didn't accept the investigators recommendation and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. It thinks the amount of compensation is disproportionate to the amount 
of the claim.
Mr N has also asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint but understands why the 
investigator hasn't recommended £2,000 compensation (which is what he thought was a fair 
resolution to this complaint). 
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The amount Chubb paid in 2019 for the claim Mr N made is not in dispute. Its the £100 
compensation that Chubb paid for the trouble and upset caused which is the point of 
contention. 
So, the key issue for me to decide on this complaint is whether the compensation payment 
of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Chubb says the amount recommended by the investigator on this complaint is not 
proportionate to the amount paid on the claim. I can see that Chubb paid a total amount of 
£1,962.46 for the claim. However, while I appreciate Chubbs comments, when we look at 
awards for trouble and upset, we look at the impact on the consumer. So, in this case, its 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr N as a result of Chubb not accepting the claim in 2009. 
 Mr N has said he suffered a stroke and was therefore unable to work. He had no income 
while he wasnt working and that had an impact on his daily life. Hes said he had to sell his 
tools and jewellery to put food on the table. 
Chubb has also said Mr N had the opportunity to raise the issues at the time and/or refer the 
decline of the claim in 2009 to this service. I acknowledge these comments too. However, 
Ive considered that Mr N wasn't well and may not necessarily have been able to pursue the 
matter at the time. At the same time, however, Ive considered that he could have referred to 
Chubb and not left it for ten years before doing so. But, nevertheless, he contacted Chubb in 
2019 and this time, Chubb had the chance to put things right for him and I can see it did do 
this. 
Im not persuaded Chubb ought to pay Mr N £2,000 compensation. But I am persuaded that 
£250 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Overall, there was an impact to Mr N as a result of Chubb not accepting the claim 
in 2009. Chubb should therefore pay Mr N a total of £250 compensation (an additional £150) 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
I can see that Chubb offered to re-instate the policy for Mr N. However, Mr N hasn't taken 
this offer as far as I can see. This is a matter between Mr N and Chubb to arrange should Mr 
N decide to do this. 
Putting things right
I think Chubb should pay Mr N £250 in total as compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Nr Ns complaint against Chubb European 
Group SE. 
Chubb European Group SE should now pay Mr N £250 compensation in total. This should 
be paid within 28 days of us telling it Mr N has accepted my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman