DRN-3457589
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the total loss settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
paid when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Os car was damaged in a collision with another vehicle and he made a claim to his 
insurer, Admiral. Mr Os car was deemed uneconomical (check) to repair and so Admiral 
settled Mr Os claim as a total loss settlement. It paid the market value for his car in line with 
the policy. 
Mr O said the settlement Admiral paid wasnt enough to replace his car for a similar one. But 
Admiral said it had correctly followed its and our approach in deciding a valuation for his car 
by relying on the motor trade guides. 
Mr O remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought 
Admiral had reached its valuation fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr O didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation for a vehicle. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its 
valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. Mr Os policy with Admiral say the most it will 
pay in the event of a claim is the market value of his car. It defines this as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Unless the car is a unique or classic car, we find the main motor trade guides are a reliable 
way to reach a valuation. They provide valuations based on likely selling prices for the month 
of loss based on the same car make and model, condition, age and mileage as Mr Os. They 
provide retail transacted valuation guides which is the average price that Mr O  or anyone 
 might expect to pay for a similar car from a retail garage. 
We find advertised prices are less reliable as they are what the seller believes the car is 
worth, can vary widely and tend to have a margin built in to negotiate a final sale price. 
So in line with our approach Ive checked the main motor trade guides and found that the 
total loss settlement Admiral paid Mr O for his car is the highest of the retail transacted 
valuations. This means that I dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably in settling his claim 
as it did. 
Mr O has provided newspaper articles about the rising cost of second hand cars. He says 
this demonstrates that the value Admiral has paid for his car is too low. 
But as Admiral has relied on the guides based on the likely selling prices for the month of 
loss, I dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably. 
I understand Mr O will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, Im not asking Admiral to increase the settlement it has paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman