DRN-3565535
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited proportionately settled a claim 
he made on his car insurance policy instead of settling it in full.
References to Advantage includes its agents who are acting on its behalf.
What happened
In 2018, Mr M took out an Advantage motor insurance policy with a broker, Ill call H. It was 
taken through a price comparison site and renewed annually thereafter. In October 2021 he 
renewed his policy over the telephone. He made a claim a few days later because his car 
was stolen.  
Advantage said hed answered the question incorrectly which asked how long he had been 
resident in the UK. It said the information had remained the same on the policy at each 
renewal since inception. It calculated that Mr M had only paid 80% of the premium he should 
have, so it said it was entitled to settle 80% of his claim. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. He said the accident was 
three days after he renewed his policy, and he had not received the policy documents to 
review and amend the information accordingly. He also questioned Advantages valuation of 
his car. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
Advantages valuation of Mr Ms car was in line with the valuation guide figures they had 
seen. They said Advantage had shown Mr M hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Our investigator also thought Advantages decision to pay 80% of Mr Ms 
claim was fair. 
Mr M doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says:
He informed the call handlers he spoke to at renewal he was born in another country. 
He had IT problems and couldnt access his policy information.
The cooling off period had not yet passed to allow him to amend the policy. 
The comparison website evidence the investigator relied on was falsified.
Advantage failed to give him legal representation to assist with his complaint. 
It knew his residency status a long time ago from previous claims. 
Our investigator didnt change their mind. They didnt think the 14 days cooling off period 
was relevant because Mr M made a claim which meant hed used the policy. They didnt 
think Mr M would have changed the details even if he had accessed the policy 
documentation, because he hadnt in the previous years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. 
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive taken everything he and Advantage has said into 
consideration, but I havent commented on it all here. Rather, Ive focused on the points 
which remain in dispute and on explaining the reasons for my decision.  
Mr M says Advantage should have provide legal assistance in relation to this claim. I 
understand Mr M had legal expenses insurance as part of his policy. However, this covers 
legal costs for certain disputes following an accident and in defending prosecution for 
motoring offences. As Mr M hasnt been involved in a road traffic accident and isnt facing 
prosecution in relation to his claim, I dont think the cover would apply here. Nevertheless, if 
he thinks there are grounds to claim for legal expenses, hell need to contact the cover 
providers directly.
Misrepresentation
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. 
Advantage thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he stated in his initial application that he had been a resident in the UK since birth. It 
provided evidence of the question Mr M would have seen at inception and Im satisfied a 
clear question was asked via the comparison site. Advantage has provided Mr Ms policy 
documentation from inception and it states Mr M was a permanent resident in the UK since 
birth. So, I dont think Mr M took reasonable care when answering this question at inception.
Mr M provided a screen shot from the comparison site which shows it pre-populated with the 
correct date, this would suggest at some point Mr M has answered this question correctly. 
However, I dont think its enough to show he had answered correctly when he first took out 
the policy in 2018. Especially as Mr M suggests he used this site often and its not clear from 
the evidence provided whether this screenshot is showing details he entered in 2018 or 
more recently. 
The renewal invitation sent each year will have been pre-populated with the information used 
for the previous years policy. Ive looked at the 2021 renewal reminder sent to Mr M, it 
includes his statement of insurance and it was sent around a month before he phoned to 
renew his policy. It states he has been a UK resident since birth, so Im satisfied the agents 
he spoke to at renewal were not responsible for this being incorrect on Mr Ms policy.  
I understand Mr M is unlikely to have reviewed the policy documentation sent following his 
renewal, as the accident happened so soon after, but Im not persuaded it would have made 
a difference if he had received and reviewed the paperwork. I say this because, the 
information was the same on the policy documentation for previous years and I cant see Mr 
M made attempts to update the details in the past. Furthermore, the 2021 renewal invitation 
had been sent prior to renewal, and contained the same information regarding residency. 
The documents also ask Mr M to check the information is correct and if it isnt to correct it 
before the policy starts. So, I would expect Mr M to have drawn the incorrect information to the agents attention during the renewal call, but he didnt.  
While I accept Mr M told the agent where he was from originally, I dont think its enough to 
have made them aware his details were incorrect and needed to be updated. I find it was 
said in passing as they discussed prices. H has said it would only expect its agents to ask 
questions regarding Mr Ms details that are likely to change each year. The rest of the 
information such as when he became a UK resident would be assumed to be the same as 
the previous year. I think thats reasonable. 
I understand Mr M says Advantage should have been aware of his residency information as 
he had provided his driving licence for claims he made in previous years. When a claim is 
made, Advantage wont necessarily check all the details it holds for the policyholder. 
Ultimately, Mr M had a responsibility to ensure the information Advantage held for him was 
accurate, but I dont think he did. Therefore, I dont think he took reasonable care not to 
misrepresent information when he renewed his policy. 
Advantage has provided its underwriting criteria which shows it would have charged Mr M 
more if he hadnt made this misrepresentation. It has also shown that his premium would 
have been £611.81 not including the optional extras. This means Im satisfied Mr Ms 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
When a qualifying misrepresentation is made, the remedies available to the insurer under 
CIDRA depends on whether it was deliberate or reckless, or careless. I dont think Mr M 
deliberately misrepresented information and I havent seen anything to make me think he 
didnt care whether the information Advantage had was correct. As Im satisfied Mr Ms 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions Advantage can 
take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA says where the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it can settle the claim 
proportionally according to the proportion of the premium the consumer paid. Advantage 
says Mr M paid £486.76 (not including the optional extras he hed taken with the policy), 
when he should have paid £611.81. This means he paid 80% of the total premium payable. 
In light of all this, I think its decision to settle 80% of Mr Ms claim is fair and reasonable and I 
dont think it needs to pay him the additional 20% it deducted. 
Cooling off period
I must agree with our investigator, the terms state: you have the right to cancel this policy 
within the first 14 days without incurring a penalty and without giving a reason. I find the 
cooling off period is intended to give the policyholder the opportunity to cancel the policy 
without penalty if they change their mind. The terms also say if a claim is paid out before 
cancellation, he wouldnt be entitled to a refund. As Mr M made a claim, I find he has 
therefore benefitted from and committed to the policy. For this reason, I dont think the fact 
the incident occurred during the cooling off period changes things.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman