DRN-4159548
Complaint
Ms O complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt 
have been accepted for it. 
Background
In November 2017, Moneybarn provided Ms O with finance for a used car. The cash price of 
the vehicle was £7,300.00 and Ms O paid a deposit of £900. Ms O applied for a loan to cover 
the remaining £6,400.00 The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £5,979.38 and the 
total amount to be repaid of £13,279.38 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of 
£209.82. 
In October 2022, Ms O complained that the payments to her agreement were unaffordable 
and so the finance should never have been provided to her. Moneybarn looked at the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. It said that the checks completed before the agreement was 
entered into confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Ms Os complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Ms O unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Ms Os 
complaint should be upheld. Ms O disagreed with our adjudicator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Os complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms O could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to 
her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Ms Os complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Ms O. During this assessment, Ms O provided details of her monthly income. 
Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Ms O which showed some low 
outstanding balances on existing credit. 
But when the amount Ms O already owed plus a reasonable amount for Ms Os living 
expenses, based on statistical data from the Office of National Statistics, were deducted 
from her monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand,       
Ms O says she was already struggling at the time and that these payments were 
unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Ms O and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Moneybarn carried out did go 
far enough. In my view, Moneybarn needed to take further steps to verify Ms Os actual living 
costs, rather than rely on statistical data, in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Ms O. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a reasonable understanding about 
Ms Os regular living expenses as well as her income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Ms O has provided us with  including her bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Ms Os committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from her monthly 
income at the time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
What Im required to think about here in order to determine whether Moneybarn acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Ms O, is whether Ms O had sufficient disposable income to enable 
her to make the monthly payments to this agreement. And having considered everything, Im 
satisfied that the available information indicates that Ms O did have sufficient funds left over 
to make her monthly payments in a sustainable manner. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Ms O did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. Im 
therefore satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Ms O when it agreed to provide 
the funds and Im not upholding Ms Os complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms O. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman