DRN-3366965
The complaint
Mr I complains that Close Brothers Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
This means that to uphold this complaint I have to be satisfied that the car was faulty at the 
point of sale. The car was elderly and had covered 66,000 miles when it was acquired by Mr 
I. I am aware that he has told this service that he encountered problems shortly after 
acquisition. I gather the diesel particulate (DPF) warning light came on and he sought the 
advice of a mechanic friend who recommended he take it back to the dealer. He says the 
dealer reset the warning light. The dealer has no record of this.
When the light came on again in December 2020 some five months after acquisition the car 
was taken back to the dealer and its records show that the DPF was cleaned. I appreciate 
Mr I disputes this. However, the key is whether that car was fit for purpose in July 2020 and 
whether the DPF was cleaned or was properly cleaned in December 2020 does not have 
any direct bearing on its state at the point of sale.
The car broke down in June 2021 after having covered some 14,000 miles since acquisition. 
The diagnostic report identified a knocking noise from the cylinder. The engine was stripped 
and after Mr I had raised a complaint with Close Brothers it arranged for an independent 
engineer to carry out an inspection. The inspector said that his work was limited by the 
dismantled state of the engine, but concluded that we would consider the reported faults 
would not have been present or developing at finance inception, based on the length of time 
and mileage covered since finance inception.
Mr I didnt accept that and asked the inspector to consider the diagnostic report from August 
2021. The inspector was not persuaded that this allowed him to conclude the car was faulty 
at the point of sale. 
The car was elderly and it will have suffered wear and tear. The DPF will have needed to be 
cleaned as it normal for diesel engines. That does not mean that the dirty DPF would be 
something that would lead me to say that the car was faulty at the point of sale. It is a routine 
maintenance issue. Nor does it mean that this was the cause of the breakdown which 
happened almost a year later and after a significant mileage have been covered by Mr I.
Quite simply I do not have sufficient evidence to show that the car was faulty when sold. I 
can understand Mr Is position, but while it is regrettable, older cars do suffer from faults and 
that does not mean this car was faulty when sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman