DRN-3932769
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and the handling of the claim 
they made on their home insurance policy.
Mrs G and Mr G have used a representative during the complaint process. For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, or actions taken by the representative as 
made by Mrs G and Mr G throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G held a home insurance policy underwritten by EIL. On 30 August, a local 
contractor fitted a shelf in their property. Unfortunately, during this process, the contractor 
screwed through a water pipe in the wall.
Mrs G and Mr G were unaware of this at first. But in late September, they became aware of 
damage to their flooring. Following this, the damage to the water pipe was discovered and 
repaired. But Mrs G and Mr Gs property was left with water damage across several rooms 
and so, they contacted EIL to make a claim on their home insurance policy.
In October 2021 EIL instructed a contractor, who Ill refer to as B, to inspect the damage 
and compile a report listing the necessary repairs. B did so acting as an agent of EIL and so, 
EIL remained responsible for the work B carried out. This repair work was carried out in 
January 2022, at the request of Mrs G and Mr G, and the property was deemed to be dry.
But Mrs G and Mr G were unhappy with the quality of the repairs. And they maintained the 
property was still wet. So, Mrs G and Mr G appointed a loss assessor, who Ill refer to as C, 
to deal with the claim on their behalf. 
In February 2022, EIL offered a cash settlement to Mrs G and Mr G. But this offer was 
rejected, and they maintained the property was still wet. Conversation around this continued 
until May 2022, when EIL agreed to appoint another contractor, who Ill refer to as S, to 
reinspect the property. Again, S acted as an agent of EIL, with EIL remaining responsible for 
their actions. S provided a report which supported Mrs G and Mr Gs testimony, stating 
drying was still required as well as work to repair the water damaged rooms.
Further delays were encountered arranging this additional work and Mrs G and Mr G 
remained unhappy. So, they raised a complaint. Mrs G and Mr G were unhappy that B had 
failed to repair their property appropriately in January 2021. And they were unhappy with 
how their claim had been handled since that time, which they felt had left them living in a 
damp home with mould present when they had a young child and several pets. So, they 
wanted the claim progressed to completion as a matter of urgency. And they wanted 
alternative accommodation to be agreed, while also being compensated for the 
inconvenience and suffering they had been caused.
EIL responded to the complaint and upheld it. While they didnt think there was evidence to 
say for certain that B were wrong to say the drying had been completed, EIL recognised S 
felt the damage present in May 2022 was claim related and so, they accepted B had failed to 
repair the damage which had in turn left Mrs G and Mr G living in a damp house with their 
family.
But they did feel certain delays during the claim process had been caused by C, rather than 
themselves, which had continued to elongate the claim. So, considering the above, EIL paid 
Mrs G and Mr G £500 to recognise the upset and suffering theyd been caused. Mrs G and 
Mr G remained unhappy with this and so, they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He was satisfied, based on the 
balance of probability and the report compiled by S, that B hadnt dried Mrs G and Mr Gs 
property appropriately. So, he thought Mrs G and Mr G were left living in a damp property for 
longer than they shouldve been. But he did recognise that there had been delays in S 
completing the rectification work that he felt was caused by C, rather than S or EIL. So, he 
didnt think EIL were responsible for all of the delays.  
Having considered the above, and the fact Mrs G and Mr G were left living in a damp 
property with a young child and several pets, and the testimony Mrs G and Mr G provided 
about their suffering, our investigator thought EIL should pay a further £250 compensation, 
taking the total offer to £750.
Mrs G and Mr G accepted this recommendation. But EIL didnt, providing no further 
comments explaining why. As EIL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I recognise EIL have accepted the claim shouldve been handled better by B. This is stated 
within their response to Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint alongside their offer of £500 
compensation. As this isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss this in detail. But for 
completeness, I want to confirm Ive read the inspection report from S, who attended Mrs G 
and Mr Gs property in May 2022. And I think its clear from this report that the repairs 
recommended and quoted for were for damage that arose from the initial insurable event, 
where a contractor screwed through Mrs G and Mr Gs water pipe.
While I understand B, and the contractor they used to dry the house, suggested the 
continued dampness may have been as a result of further leaks, Ive seen no evidence to 
support this. So, on the balance of probability, I think the dampness present in Mrs G and Mr 
Gs house arose from the leak in August 2021 and so, I think it follows that B failed to 
complete the required repairs to ensure the property was dry in January 2022.
And because of this failure, I think it follows that Mrs G and Mr G were left living in a damp 
property for longer than they shouldve been. So, Im satisfied EIL have acted unfairly. Ive 
then turned to the main area of dispute, which centres around what EIL should do to put 
things right.Putting things right
When thinking about what EIL should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mrs G and Mr G back in the position they wouldve been, had EIL acted 
fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had EIL acted fairly, I think Mrs G and Mr Gs property wouldve been made 
dry correctly in January 2022. While I appreciate there was a period of time between 
October 2021 to Bs contractor attending in January 2022, I can see the claim was placed on 
hold at Mrs G and Mr Gs request. So, I dont think EIL are responsible for any delays during 
that period of time.
But as Ive explained within my decision, I dont think the property was made dry in January 
2022. And so, I think Mrs G and Mr G were left living in a damp property that required further 
repairs from January 2022 to May 2022, when EIL took the decision to appoint S. 
The scope of my decision runs up to the date EIL issued their final response, in September 
2022, and I recognise at this time the repair works had still not been completed. But I also 
recognise that between June  September 2022, there we delays caused by C and their 
failure to respond to EILs requests. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold EIL 
responsible for all of the delays between January to September 2022.
So, I think EIL should compensate Mrs G and Mr G for the suffering and inconvenience they 
felt between January  May 2022, living in a damp property with pets and a young child. I 
appreciate the stress this wouldve caused them, and the worry they wouldve felt regarding 
the damp and the health impact this may have on themselves and their child. I think this 
wouldve been a significant worry, over a lengthy period of time.
But I recognise EIL have already paid Mrs G and Mr G £500 to recognise this. And I can see 
they agreed to alternative accommodation costs for the period of time the necessary repairs 
are carried out. So, I do think EIL have made attempts to recognise the seriousness of the 
situation, and their failures throughout this. And I must consider this when ensuring my 
decision remains fair to both parties.
I can see our investigator recommended EIL pay Mrs G and Mr G a further £250 to bring the 
total compensation offer to a level they felt was appropriate. And I think this additional 
payment is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve 
directed, had it not already been recommended.
I think it fairly takes into consideration the additional amount of time Mrs G and Mr G were 
living in a damp home, when I wouldve expected B to have ensured the drying was 
completed correctly. And I think it reasonably compensates Mrs G and Mr G for the upset 
and worry they wouldve felt during this time, considering the young child and animals they 
had in the property. But I do think it also fairly takes into consideration the delays caused by 
C, acting on behalf of Mrs G and Mr G at the time, and EILs agreement to alternative 
accommodation and their agreement to appoint S in the first place when it became clear the 
testimony of Mrs G and Mr G conflicted with the view of B. So, I think EIL should pay Mrs G 
and Mr G an additional £250.
I understand this isnt the outcome EIL were hoping for, as I acknowledge they rejected this 
payment when it was recommended by our investigator. But EIL didnt provide comments 
explaining why they felt this additional payment was unreasonable. So, while I have noted 
EILs rejection, I havent been able to consider their reasoning when reaching this decision.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs G and Mr G an additional £250 to recognise the impact their service failures 
have had.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman