DRN-2804624
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) declined his claim for 
accidental damage under his appliance insurance.
What happened
Mr R purchased a washing machine together with an insurance policy covering it for, among 
other things, accidental damage. Mr R was in the process of moving the appliance, when he 
accidentally dropped it causing damage. 
He made a claim to D&G. During the call, he explained that the washing machine had been 
delivered to his doorstep and whilst he was moving it into position, he dropped it, causing 
damage to the front of the appliance and the power cord was pulled out of the back. 
Later that day he made another call to D&G and explained that he was moving in a few days 
and enquired whether he needed to change his address. He also clarified that when he was 
installing the machine, it was dropped and damaged. 
During the first call, D&G confirmed that an engineer would come to inspect the machine and 
if it was classed as having cosmetic damage, then a claim wouldnt be covered unless the 
damage affected how the machine worked. 
The engineer attended, examined the machine and concluded that the damage amounted to 
cosmetic damage and was beyond economical repair. Consequently, D&G declined the 
claim as it believed that the damage was far more substantial than originally reported. That 
the washing machine hadnt been installed prior to the damage happening. And finally, that 
the policy didnt allow for any damage caused to the appliance during transportation by a 
third party, who wasnt an agent of D&G.
But D&G recognised that Mr R was given mis-information about whether cosmetic damage 
caused by an accident was covered and for this it paid £10 compensation. 
Mr R wasnt happy about this as he said that the washing machine had been installed prior 
to its transportation and said that he (the policy holder) had help from a family member, in 
moving the appliance and neither could be considered as third parties, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators didnt think that D&G had acted fairly and thought that his complaint 
should be upheld. She found in her assessment that Mr R couldnt be a third party and that 
he had installed the washing machine (albeit temporarily) so complied with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
D&G didnt accept the investigators view. It said that the original damage had been caused 
prior to the machines installation. And once Mr R had been told that cosmetic damage 
wouldnt be covered, the damage was found to be more severe than originally reported.  
D&G requested a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 April 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 6 
May 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
D&G relied upon the following exclusion clause as one of the reasons to decline the claim: 
Damage during delivery, installation or transportation of the product by a third party who is 
not our agent. D&G said that as Mr R had got a family member to help move the washing 
machine, that person constituted a third party. 
Mr R said that he wouldve needed the assistance of someone to help move the machine, in 
a similar way that deliveries are completed with two people. In the circumstances, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Mr R to have sought help to move the appliance. And I think it 
was unfair for D&G to have declined the claim on this reason.
However, I have considered the other reasons why D&G declined the claim. In doing so I 
have listened to the claims call. Mr R said that when the washing machine was being carried 
to where it was to be installed, it was dropped. He also said that he wanted to check if 
accidental damage would cover it. He described the damage as dented at the front and that 
the power line had been pulled out of the back. Engineer information was given to Mr R for 
him to complete a booking. 
Mr R further enquired as to whether the policy would only cover the pulled-out power cord, or 
the damage caused to the front (which he explained amounted to dents). The advisor 
explained that cosmetic damage such as dents are unlikely to be covered unless they 
affected the washing machine function, but the pulled cord was likely to be covered. 
In making a claim, it was Mr Rs responsibility to show that an insured event had happened. 
He described the event in that, he said that the washing machine was to be installed and 
its been dropped. D&G inspected the washing machine to establish the level of damage.
The responsibility then transferred to D&G to either accept the claim or show that a policy 
exclusion applied if it decided to decline. It declined Mr Rs claim because it thought the 
washing machine hadnt been installed before the claim had been made and that the 
damage originally reported was far less severe than when it inspected the machine. The 
term D&G relied upon states:
Your product must have been installed, maintained and used in accordance with the 
manufacturers instruction.
The dispute then, is about whether D&G fairly declined the claim based on whether the 
machine had been installed or not. Mr R said that he had installed the machine albeit on a 
temporary basis, in order to test whether it was working. The proof of this was because he had removed all the protective packaging which he wouldnt have done had he not installed 
the machine. 
But the evidence before me (from the call recordings) is that on more than one occasion, Mr 
R tells D&G that he was in the process of installing the machine. He doesnt say that he had 
temporarily installed it, then disconnected it to re-install it later. This account comes much 
later in the timeline and after D&G had declined his claim.  
In addition, Mr R during those calls was asked was there anything else he wished to say, to 
which he replied no. Mr R said that the advisors failed to correctly gather information from 
him. But I think by asking him if there was anything else, he wished to add, gave him the 
opportunity to provide a fuller explanation, if he wished. Which he didnt do.
Mr R pointed out to D&G that cosmetic damage was covered under the plan. D&G ultimately 
accepted this, apologised and paid £10 for the incorrect advice given to Mr R in the calls. But 
it said that where accidental damage occurs, the policy provides:
Accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee) Both during and after 
the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, if your product suffers 
accidental damage (so that the product is no longer in good working order), we will (at our 
option) authorise an engineer to carry out a repair, arrange a replacement or cover the cost 
of a replacement product. 
Thinking about this, I can see why D&G was doubtful, not about what happened, but about 
when the damage happened. During the calls before the engineers visit, Mr R explained that 
the damage was dents and the pulled power cord. After the engineer visit the damage was 
recorded as being a split door, split welds, dents, scratches and uneconomical to repair. 
D&G said that the damage was more severe by the time the machine was inspected.
Also, the policy provides that D&G will replace, repair or cover the cost of a replacement 
product but at its discretion. On balance, Im persuaded that the damage was more severe 
by the time the engineer visited and I can see why D&G was doubtful, not about what 
happened but as to the level of damage caused and whether the machine had been 
installed.
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think D&G were unfair to decline the claim on the 
basis that the original damage had occurred prior to the washing machine being installed. 
Also, I think that the £10 paid, for the trouble and upset caused for the inaccurate advice, is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Consequently, I wont be asking D&G to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
D & G has accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr R said that my decision was wrong and not in line with the policy. That D&G were not 
treating its customers fairly. He said that during the initial call to D&G, he believed he was 
driving at the time and therefore was not with the machine to recount all damage caused. 
That, he wasnt a trained engineer and therefore if he underestimated the damage caused to 
the machine, the claim shouldnt be affected. And it shouldnt be his responsibility to detail 
every aspect of damage. Finally, a reasonable person wouldnt have removed the protective 
packaging if the machine hadnt been installed. And during it being moved to the location, it 
was dropped and damaged. Whilst I understand that Mr R said that he wasnt a trained engineer, it was still his 
responsibility to show that an insured event happened. And one way that he would have to 
do this was by making a claim and providing detail of what he could see was the damaged 
caused. 
I have listened again to the all the call recordings to remind myself what Mr R reported to 
D&G. During the initial call, Mr R said that the damage amounted to dents and a pulled 
power cord. This was maintained until after the engineer had attended and inspected the 
damage by which point the damage seen was far more severe. And after Mr R had been 
informed by D&G that cosmetic damage such as dents, wouldnt be covered. 
Mr R said that as he wasnt a trained engineer, its not his responsibility to recount all 
damage that was caused. But I think its reasonable for Mr R to have reported what damage 
he could see, just as he did with the dents. For example, the engineer noted that the door of 
the machine was split, and I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr R to have reported this 
to D&G, much earlier, in the same way that he reported the dents and the pulled power cord. 
Mr R said that a reasonable person wouldnt have removed the packaging if the machine 
hadnt been installed. I asked D&G if its engineer could provide any other evidence to prove 
that the machine had been installed, for example, water inside the drum (as Mr R had said 
that he connected it to test it). The engineer couldnt provide any other evidence. So, the 
other evidence relied upon were the call recordings. 
During the calls Mr R on more than one occasion, told D&G that he was in the process of 
installing the machine. He didnt mention that he had temporarily installed it then uninstalled 
it and then re-installed it. This account come much later. So, In the circumstances, I dont 
think D&G were unreasonable to have relied on the policy terms and conditions, when it 
declined Mr Rs claim. Consequently, I wont be asking D&G to do anything more to resolve 
the complaint and I think the offer of £10 from D&G is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I think the offer of £10 from Domestic 
and General Insurance PLC is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman