DRN-2622530
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader. He complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) made a decision to 
decline his claim and cancel his policy.
What happened
In 2017 Mr H had an escape of water at his business premises. He held a business 
protection insurance policy with Allianz and made a claim for the damage caused to the 
building, its contents and for the interruption to his business caused through not being able 
to trade.
Initially, Allianz accepted the claim and Mr H began to get quotes to have the building 
reinstated. Mr H found it difficult to get contractors to carry out work to the premises when he 
explained it was for an insurance claim so it was agreed that Allianz would cash settle the 
claim. Allianz began making interim payments to Mr H until a total figure could be agreed.
During the course of verifying the claim, Mr H submitted two invoices from one of his 
contractors. Allianz investigated the invoices and spoke to the contractor, who said hed 
never issued them. The contractor also provided screenshots and emails from Mr H which 
showed that Mr H may have asked the contractor to provide false information to the 
insurance company. As a result, Allianz cancelled the policy and declined the claim. 
Mr H says that the contractor is a former personal friend with whom he has fallen out, and 
that he doesnt recall sending these messages  he believes a member of his staff sent 
them. He also states that he made Allianzs loss adjuster aware that the invoice was for the 
total cost of all the works as he hadnt asked for individual invoices from each contractor. He 
says he never submitted the invoice to make a claim for the value shown but to be indicative 
of the total cost of the works. He also says that the loss adjuster was aware that Mr H wasnt 
getting individual invoices and was paying his contractors in cash to avoid VAT, ultimately to 
keep costs to a minimum. 
Allianz didnt agree and remained of the opinion that the invoice was fraudulent. So Mr H 
referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he thought Allianz had 
enough evidence to indicate that Mr H had acted fraudulently, so he didnt think Allianz had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim and cancelling the policy.
Mr H submitted further evidence showing his conversation with the contractor and also with 
the loss adjuster; however our investigator questioned why these had been submitted some 
years after the claim was declined and ultimately didnt think they changed his view. Mr H 
didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and Ill explain why.
Mr H has provided new evidence that was passed to Allianz to consider. He says this shows 
he didnt commit fraud. However, my role isnt to decide whether Mr H made a fraudulent 
claim or exaggerated his claim. My role is to consider whether Allianz acted fairly and 
reasonably in reaching the conclusion that it was more likely than not there had been fraud, 
based on the evidence it had available.
Mr Hs policy specifically refers to fraud and the consequences of supporting a claim using 
fraudulent documentation. The policy states: If the Insured or anyone acting on behalf of the 
Insured makes any false or fraudulent claim or supports a claim by false or fraudulent 
document, device or statement, this Policy shall be void and the Insured will forfeit all rights 
under the Policy. In such circumstances, Allianz retains the right to keep the premium and to 
recover any sums paid by way of benefit under the Policy.
Mr H, by his own admission, submitted two invoices to Allianz in January 2018 totalling just 
over £60,000. He says these were intended to be indicative amounts for the insurer to 
consider. However, the documents submitted didnt say that and were submitted as invoices 
rather than quotes, suggesting that the work had been carried out by that contractor. Ive 
also seen the email Mr H sent to the loss adjuster attaching the invoices. There is no 
suggestion in that email that these amounts are estimates  in fact Mr H refers to one of 
them being for works carried out in relation to the claim and the other being for other works 
that needed to be done to reopen the business. In his emails, Mr H referred to the second 
invoice and stated: I would like you to contribute as much as possible.
Allianz obtained signed witness statements from both the contractor and the loss adjuster. 
The contractor confirmed that he hadnt carried out these works and had only carried out 
works totalling around £900 for Mr H. The contractor also provided pictures of exchanges 
over social media in which Mr H discusses providing incorrect information to the insurance 
company.
It appears that Mr H might have misunderstood the intention of providing a cash settlement 
and believed this was authorisation from the insurer to have the works carried out without 
paying VAT. However, the witness statement from the original loss adjustor confirmed that 
he didnt agree that Mr H could pay his contractors in cash to avoid VAT. All the emails Ive 
seen between the loss adjuster and Mr H refer to a cash settlement for the insurance, rather 
than anything indicating Mr H should pay his contractors in cash to avoid VAT.
Based on the information it had available, I think it reasonable that Allianz believed it more 
likely than not that the evidence provided in support of the claim was fraudulent. It follows 
that, even though there is no dispute there was an escape of water leading to a valid claim, 
Allianz didnt act unreasonably in declining the claim and cancelling the insurance. 
Mr H has provided some additional information to this service, which wasnt made available 
to Allianz at the time of the claim. Much of this information refers to suspicions that his staff 
had sent messages from his social media accounts, and also a conversation with the 
contractor about him having provided the witness statement as he didnt want to get in 
trouble for avoiding VAT. However, these have been provided some years after the claim, 
and, as a result, Allianz wasnt given the opportunity to speak to the contractor about these 
allegations directly.So, while I can appreciate that this situation has caused Mr H a great deal of stress, I dont 
think he has shown that Allianz acted unfairly in declining this claim on the basis that it 
believed the invoice to be fraudulent. I wont be asking Allianz to do anything further.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman