DRN-2932876
The complaint
This is a complaint that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold Mr G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. It 
covered Mr G for unemployment only. 
Aviva says it doesnt call this type of insurance PPI, because the policy didnt cover a 
specific mortgage, and instead would have paid out an amount equivalent to the mortgage 
payment. Many insurers, and we at the ombudsman service, would call this PPI  and many 
providers sold PPI that was stand alone in this way, and not linked to a specific mortgage. 
And this Aviva policy bears the hallmarks of what I would call PPI. So, for simplicitys sake, 
Ill refer to it as PPI. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr G says that he didnt need or want the PPI.  He says hed have received sick pay and 
redundancy pay from his employer. He also says he thought that the policy was mandatory. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 21 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. So it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
If Mr G was told the PPI was mandatory, this would amount to a mis-sale. However, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting 
evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person 
(or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that 
this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do 
something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And I can see that the policy 
covered Mr G only for unemployment, and didnt include the usual accident and sickness 
cover  so this suggests there was discussion with the adviser about what Mr G specifically 
needed and wanted. If the adviser was telling Mr G that the PPI was compulsory, its more 
likely a fuller policy would have been sold, as this would have earned Aviva a bigger sale. So 
I think its more likely the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mr G doesnt now remember 
it. Overall however, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mr Gs consent.  
I think Aviva recommended the PPI to Mr G, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Gs particular 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr G was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits on top of any redundancy pay Mr G received. And 
it would have put off the time when Mr G would need to fall back on any savings or 
other means he may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put him in a more secure position, if hed eventually lost income due to 
longer-term unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr G couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And he could have cancelled the policy if this 
changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr G would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr G to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming he understood he had a choice about 
it  which I realise he is saying he didnt.)
Overall, Ive not found strong evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman