DRN-4108127
The complaint
Mr T complains that Magus Private Wealth Limited failed to give him appropriate advice 
regarding his protection insurance cover. 
What happened
In 2013, Mr T took out income protection cover on Maguss advice. This was taken out on a 
working tasks incapacity definition, due to Mr Ts working hours at the time. 
Several years later, Mr T was sadly diagnosed with cancer. He didnt meet the requirements 
for a claim to be paid under his income protection cover, and thought Magus ought to have 
changed his cover to own occupation after he had changed jobs in 2016. He also thought 
Magus ought to have recommended critical illness cover. He brought a complaint to this 
service on that basis, and cancelled his income protection cover.
Magus told this service it hadnt been aware that Mr Ts working hours had reduced in 2016, 
and it didnt think critical illness was a priority for Mr T (or affordable). However, based on 
information that had come to light about Mr Ts occupation when the policy was taken out, 
Magus thought he wouldnt have been offered any income protection cover if the insurer had 
known about this. It therefore offered to refund the premiums paid, which came to 
£23,163.12. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Magus had been aware 
of Mr Ts occupation when the policy was sold, and that Magus should return the premiums 
paid, as it had already offered to do. However, he didnt think the evidence after 2016 
supported that Magus was aware Mr T had reduced his working hours. The investigator 
didnt think Magus had acted unreasonably by not recommending that Mr T take out critical 
illness cover. 
Mr T did not accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Income protection  was the policy mis-sold?
When Mr T applied for the income protection policy in 2013, he answered on his application 
form that he had no intention of leaving the UK, apart from going on holiday. However, Mr T 
worked abroad for around a week every month in a conflict zone. Magus thinks its unlikely 
Mr T could have obtained income protection cover at the time if the insurer had known about 
his occupation. I would agree with this.
Although Magus says it wasnt aware that Mr T regularly worked in a conflict zone when the 
policy was taken out, I agree with our investigator that its more likely than not that Magus 
was aware of this. Ive seen email correspondence sent between Magus and Mr Ts wife in 
October 2013 where they were discussing some exclusions added by the insurer. Mrs T 
made it clear her husband worked in a conflict zone, and Magus didnt query this.  
I therefore find that the policy was mis-sold, as Magus should not have recommended 
income protection cover to Mr T, given his occupation. If a claim had been made, its highly 
unlikely this would have been accepted by the insurer. 
Mr T changed jobs in 2016, and no longer worked in a conflict zone at that time. If hed made 
a claim after this, its unlikely this would have been turned down by the insurer due to his 
occupation. Though the insurer may well have voided the policy from the start, due to 
misrepresentation about Mr Ts occupation when the policy was taken out. So I think the 
fairest outcome would be for Magus to refund all the premiums paid for the policy, as it has 
already offered to do. Though I also require Magus to pay interest on this.
Income protection  should Magus have changed the cover to own occupation at a later 
review
Magus initially recommended that Mr T take out own occupation cover in 2013. This would 
pay benefit if he couldnt work in his occupation due to illness or injury. However, the insurer 
wouldnt offer him this level of cover, and instead offered him working tasks cover. This 
would pay benefit if Mr T couldnt do certain tasks due to illness or injury. The reason the 
insurer wouldnt offer Mr T own occupation cover was because he worked 60 hours per 
week. 
Mr Ts representative has explained to this service that Mr T was only working 60 hours a 
week when he was abroad (for around a week per month). Though the application form 
completed by Mr T does say he worked 60 hours a week on average, with no mention of this 
only being one week a month. 
Magus made Mr T aware of the reason why the insurer wouldnt offer him own occupation 
cover. Magus was of the view that other insurers would likely take the same position, which I 
think was a reasonable assumption. Mr T was happy to go ahead with the income protection 
cover with a working tasks incapacity definition. 
Mr T started a new role in 2016. He had a review with Magus in November 2016. The notes 
from this meeting state that Mr T had started in the new role with the same salary as 
previously, and the job takes up a great deal of time and attention. The meeting notes 
stated that Mr T and his wife had sufficient protection in place, including income protection 
for Mr T. 
Magus says that, although Mr T was in a new role at this time, it understood that he 
continued to work similar hours to his previous role, as well as abroad. I cant be sure that 
Mr Ts working hours were discussed. However, we do know Mr T had said that his new role 
took up a great deal of time and attention, which would appear to support Maguss 
recollections. Based on this, it seems Mr Ts existing cover remained appropriate for him at 
this time. 
Magus had an annual review meeting with Mr T and his wife in May 2018, and this focused 
on cash flow. It was noted that Mr T was looking to secure another role. 
In September 2018, Mr Ts wife contacted Magus as Mr T had received renewal documents 
for his insurance policies. She queried whether Mr T needed to have the cover in place, 
including income protection. She made the point that they were all set up when Mr T was in 
a previous role which had no employee benefits. Mr T then confirmed that he was about to contract a HR company to go through the employment contracts, and would throw 
everything into the mix. I assume from this that Mr T intended to arrange for the HR 
company to look at employee benefits too.
Magus responded to Mr T and his wife and recommended that Mr T hold onto the policies for 
the moment, until things were organised with his new company, to see if they would set up 
employee benefits. It said it would review them then. 
In October 2018, Mr T spoke with Magus about his life cover options, to see if the premiums 
could be reduced. 
In June 2019, Mr T met with Magus, but a full review didnt take place. The meeting notes 
say that Mr T and his wifes financial forecast was reviewed, as well as their ongoing 
concerns about the levels of cash they were needing from their investments and pension. I 
see that Magus had agreed to contact the insurer of Mr Ts income protection cover and life 
cover to investigate reducing the level of premium. 
A later review in 2020 said that Magus had previously reviewed Mr T and his wifes family 
and life cover and there was no need for any changes at that stage. It didnt mention Mr Ts 
income protection cover. 
Given that Mr T had changed jobs again in 2018, I think it would have been prudent for 
Magus to check that his existing income protection cover remained appropriate for him. 
However, its also the case that Magus intended to review Mr Ts cover once he knew more 
about his employee benefits through his company. I havent seen any correspondence to 
suggest that Mr T or his wife got in touch with Magus again about this. 
I dont know what Mr Ts working hours were in his new role. If they were less than 60 hours 
per week, then he may well have been able to take out income protection cover on an own 
occupation basis. Though I note that Mr T and his wife were trying to reduce their outgoings 
(including insurance premiums) in 2018 and 2019. Income protection with an own 
occupation incapacity definition is the most comprehensive cover available, and would have 
likely been more expensive than what Mr T was paying for the working tasks definition. So 
he may not have wanted or been able to afford the more expensive cover, even if this had 
been an option. 
Should Magus have recommended that Mr T take out critical illness cover?
Mr T and his wife owned a number of mortgaged properties (some of which were rented out) 
and so he did have large liabilities. Critical illness cover could have therefore provided a 
valuable benefit to Mr T. Though its also the case that one or more of these properties could 
be sold if needed.
I understand that Mr T did have critical illness cover in place, and this lapsed in 2010. The 
insurer was asked to reinstate the cover in 2011, but refused to do so because of where 
Mr T travelled for work (as the policy included total and permanent disability cover). 
Ive read an email chain between Mr T and Magus in 2012. I understand Mr T was leaving 
his employment and would therefore lose his employee benefits. Magus gave Mr T some 
quotes for life insurance, as well as combined life and critical illness cover (where the 
premium was over £1,000 per month). Mr T asked Magus to arrange life cover only. This 
suggests that either critical illness cover wasnt a priority for him, or the amount of cover he 
would need to cover his liabilities was unaffordable. It's also the case that, given Mr T worked in a conflict zone in 2013, its unlikely he could 
have taken out critical illness cover. For the same reason that the insurer refused to reinstate 
his previous cover in 2011. 
After Mr T changed jobs in 2016, Magus recorded that based on Mr T and his wifes 
circumstances at that time, they would be able to meet their regular expenses in 2017, but 
would have a shortfall from 2018 onwards. A discussion took place about selling one of their 
properties in 2018. It therefore seems unlikely that Mr T would have been able to afford the 
cost of critical illness to cover his liabilities at this time.
Mr Ts representative makes the point that the working tasks definition of incapacity under 
the income protection cover was restrictive, and says Magus ought to have instead 
recommended that Mr T use that premium for critical illness cover. 
I agree that the working tasks definition is far more restrictive than own occupation cover. 
Though Magus did explain to Mr T exactly what criteria he would need to meet in order to 
make a successful claim under the income protection policy. Mr T was happy to go ahead 
with the working tasks incapacity definition. Its also the case that critical illness cover is 
restrictive. Its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know Mr T likely could have made a 
successful claim under a critical illness policy.
Ive already concluded that Magus mis-sold the income protection policy to Mr T in 2013. But 
as Ive said, I think its unlikely Mr T could have obtained critical illness at this time either. He 
may have been able to take it out after 2016 once hed changed jobs, but I think affordability 
would have been an issue after this. Arguably he could have taken out some critical illness 
cover as an alternative to the working tasks income protection cover, but this wasnt 
recorded in any of the meeting notes as a priority for him.  
On balance, I dont think Magus did anything wrong by not recommending that Mr T take out 
critical illness cover.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Magus Private Wealth Limited to 
refund Mr T the premiums paid for his income protection cover. Interest should be added to 
this at the rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date each premium was paid to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman