DRN-2696065
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled her claim for 
storm damage under her buildings insurance.
What happened
Ms A made a claim under her buildings insurance after her barn roof, drains and driveway 
were damaged by a storm. Fairmead arranged for a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the 
damage and it asked Ms A for repair quotes. After four months, Fairmead accepted the 
claim.
Fairmead and Ms A agreed that she would arrange some of the work and that Fairmead 
would reimburse her on receipt of the invoice. But, after waiting some time for the payment, 
Ms A complained to Fairmead because it hadnt reimbursed her as agreed.
Ms A provided two quotes for the barn roof repair and Fairmead agreed to cover the repair 
based on those along with its own contractors reports. However, Fairmead only replaced 
part of the roof. Fairmead said that the roofer completing the work didnt think the remaining 
part was damaged by the storm, and wear and tear wasnt covered under the policy.
Ms A complained because all four quotes indicated that the full roof would be replaced. She 
also told Fairmead that its delays were unacceptable. Fairmead agreed it had caused delays 
and offered Ms A £75 by way of apology. She didnt accept because she remained of the 
view that the full roof should be replaced.
Our investigator upheld Ms As complaint. He said that Fairmead hadnt acted in line with the 
rules for insurance claims handling. Specifically, he said that the delays accepting the claim 
and making payment for completed repairs were too long and avoidable. He thought 
Fairmeads offer of £75 was insufficient and it should pay Ms A £200 by way of apology. Our 
investigator also said that the four reports indicated the full roof needed replacing so he 
didnt think it was fair that Fairmead only replaced part of the barn roof. In respect of this 
issue, our investigator recommended that Fairmead should replace the full roof and pay Ms 
A £100 compensation for the delays.
Fairmead accepted all points about the claim handling delays and agreed to pay £200 
compensation. However, it didnt agree that it needed to replace the full barn roof or pay a 
further £100 compensation. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms As complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Firstly, our investigator said Fairmead should pay Ms A £200 compensation in recognition of 
the delays handling her claim. Im pleased to see that Fairmead accepted this 
recommendation, so I dont think I need to comment on this point in detail. For completeness 
though, having considered the evidence, I also think that £200 is fair compensation for the 
avoidable delays Fairmead caused after Ms A provided it with everything it asked for to 
progress her claim.
Moving on, the remaining issue is that of the storm-damaged barn roof. Fairmead doesnt 
think it needs to replace the full roof because its roofer said part of it was damage due to 
wear and tear, which isnt covered under Ms As policy. It made this decision some months 
after it had already accepted Ms As claim supported by four roof reports/quotes, two of 
which it arranged.
Ive looked at the quotes and reports provided by both Ms A and Fairmeads contractors on 
first assessment of the damage. Understandably, Ms As quotes are for full roof replacement 
based on evidence of storm damage. So, Ive focused on Fairmeads reports to see whether 
it provided evidence which contradicts Ms As roofer. The relevant parts of the reports say: 
The barn is well maintained and there is no evidence of pre-existing damage. Replacement 
of the roof will be required
and,
Out Building  One side of the roof sheets have collapsed in, the rest of the roof has lifted 
and moved in storm. Roof Sheets are Asbestos Sheets
Recommendations for rectification: Remove & Replace with new metal sheet.
I cant see anything in the reports which suggests that only part of the roof needed replacing, 
so I think its reasonable that Ms A understood any reference to roof meant the full roof. I 
dont think these reports support Fairmeads view. 
When Fairmeads builder had completed the work, the LA reported:
 
the roofer has attended several times and does not believe the unaffected side of roof is 
allowing water to ingress or is storm damaged.
I should point out that the roof wasnt repaired promptly, and this statement was only offered 
around six months after the storm damage occurred and after Fairmead had previously 
accepted the claim. Therefore, I cant see any reason to place more weight on this report 
than Ms As two reports, or the two prepared by Fairmeads contractors around the time the 
damage happened.
I understand Fairmead decided that half of the roof was damaged due to wear and tear, but 
as Ive already quoted above, its own LA said there was no evidence of pre-existing 
damage. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Fairmead has shown conclusively that this 
exclusion applies here.
Overall, I find it difficult to conclude that Fairmead fairly declined Ms As claim for the full roof 
when the majority of the evidence from the time of the claim point towards the whole of the 
roof being storm-damaged. For that reason, Im satisfied that Fairmead should replace the 
full roof and pay Ms A £100 compensation for its failure to complete the full roof repair in the 
first place. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Fairmead 
Insurance Limited must:
complete the outstanding work so that the whole barn roof has been replaced, and
pay Ms A £100 compensation for its failure to replace the full roof when it first 
approved the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman