The complaint
Ms H is unhappy as Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, trading as More Th>n have 
declined a claim she made on a home and contents insurance policy for a lost ring. In my 
decision Ill refer to the business as RSA. 
Ms H also says she wasnt advised about the correct level of cover around the time of taking 
the policy out or later made aware that shed need an additional level of cover to be covered 
for the scenario shes tried make a claim for.
What happened
In February 2013, Ms H took out a home and contents insurance policy through an online 
comparison website.  Ms H says it was around this time that she spoke to an RSA adviser 
who told her that her now lost ring would be covered for any eventuality. 
RSA on the other hand say that the sale took place solely through the online comparison site 
- without any interaction with their staff. Theyve searched their records for 2013 and there
was a call from Ms H in September 2013 regarding the legal helpline.
In August 2019 Ms H contacted RSA shortly after a ring she had was missing. In an email 
dated 30 August 2019, she says the ring fell into a toilet. 
RSA declined Ms Hs claim as theyve said the ring wasnt covered as she didnt take out an 
optional additional Personal Possessions cover which could have covered items lost 
outside of the home. As the toilet had been flushed, RSA say that the ring is no longer in Ms 
Hs home.  
RSA acknowledge that Ms H had two items (including the ring) listed as named items under 
her policy. They also referred to yearly policy renewal documents that were sent to Ms H 
detailing the level of cover she had and said that Ms H had an opportunity to query the level 
of cover if she believed it to be incorrect. 
Ms H remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator found, in 
summary, that:
there was no evidence of a phone call around the time the policy was taken out;
Ms H had an opportunity (at least at the time of the policy renewing each year) to
check that the policy was still right for her;
Ms H hadnt taken out personal possessions cover which possibly may have
covered the scenario in which the ring had become lost; and therefore
RSA had fairly declined her claim.
DRN-1656647Ms H has later said that it was only a possibility that the ring had been lost down the toilet 
and that there were other possible explanations, such as theft. 
Ms H didnt accept our investigators findings and the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
Ive noted that in her response to our investigator Ms H has said I am unhappy only on the 
basis that RSA would have paid out on my claim in the event of theft, for example But to 
ensure her complaint has been fully considered, Ive reconsidered all the evidence and her 
initial complaint again. 
Having done so, Ive to tell Ms H that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why below and Ive included 
two main headings as Ms Hs complaint has two main parts to it.
The phone call that Ms H says took place
The sale took take place a long time ago and not all the records relating to this policy may 
now be available. This isnt surprising, and in cases like this Ive to decide what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened around the time of sale based on the available 
evidence. That isnt to say one party is wrong and one is right. Simply, what I consider more 
likely than not to have occurred - given all the available evidence. 
This sale took place through an online comparison site. It was a non-advised sale, meaning 
that the business didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for Ms Hs needs, but they 
did still have to give her good enough information about the policy so that she could make a 
decision herself on its suitability for her needs.
In this case, on one hand Ms H is saying there was a phone call with an RSA representative 
who failed to tell her that shed need an additional level of cover  Personal Possessions, to 
be covered outside of her home or in the circumstances of this claim. 
RSA are saying theres no such record of a call of this type around the time the policy was 
taken out, and in any case, the yearly renewal documents outlined Ms Hs level of cover and 
if there was a problem Ms H had a responsibility to let RSA know. 
Ive considered the possibility that a phone call did take place. But from experience, I feel 
that its reasonable to say that insurance companies, in general, will often try to sell 
additional add ons to maximise revenue. So Ive had to consider what would the benefit be 
to RSA of not selling an additional, more expensive add on to extend Ms Hs cover. 
Ive also carefully considered what Ms H has said about paying extra to have the ring 
covered as an item of high value. I can see from looking at the policy information that the ring is listed, along with one other item, as an item of high value. But Ms H didnt take out an 
optional level of cover  personal possessions, that covered items outside of the home. 
Its not uncommon for higher value items, such as those Ms H owned, to be listed as they 
represent more risk for an insurer and its often easier to have an approximate valuation at 
the time of sale than later when a claim might be made. 
Under the nearest relevant policy terms, this policy stated that You must tell us if any High 
Risk item you own is worth more than £1,500.  So it follows that just because there were two 
items listed under Ms Hs policy, this doesnt mean a conversation took place at some point 
about additional cover. For example, it can also be helpful for a customer, as in the event of 
a claim it can help support proof of ownership - particularly when many policies of this type 
renew each year.
Ive also carefully considered a system screen shot that RSA have sent us. It shows the 
quote generated through the online comparison site and the premium that Ms H would pay in 
2013. On this screenshot, both high risk items are listed. I find it more likely than not that 
these items were added at the point of taking the policy out online rather than afterwards. I 
say this because the quote was generated based on this information with a start date of 5 
February 2013 and the business source listed as 'aggregator' - meaning online. 
Again, Ive also considered that even in a scenario where a phone call did take place and Ms 
H was under the impression that shed be paying extra because of the two items being 
listed, then shed reasonably have questioned why the monthly premium didnt increase too 
with RSA much sooner. But theres no evidence that she did. 
In summary, I havent seen supporting evidence to be able to fairly find that a phone call 
took place between Ms H and RSA around the time the policy was taken out in 2013. Like 
our investigator, I'm not categorically saying there wasn't a phone call. I'm saying I've not 
seen any evidence of one or anything that would lend support to Ms H's recollections of a 
call taking place when I've weighed up all the evidence.  
The decline of the claim 
I appreciate the frustration that Ms H must feel with her claim being declined  particularly 
given the value of the ring. When considering this part of her complaint I must decide 
whether RSA:
have declined the claim whist acting within the policy terms; and
if theyve treated Ms H fairly and reasonably in doing so.
Ive had to consider the nearest relevant policy terms to when the policy was sold when 
coming to my decision - dated after the policy started.
When reaching this part of my decision Ive also had to note that there are some 
inconsistencies in the language Ms H has used when describing the ring becoming lost. The 
reason Im elaborating on this point isnt to cause aggravation, but because the 
circumstances of the loss occurring can make a fundamental difference in whether I find that 
RSA have fairly and reasonably declined the claim under the policy terms.
In an email dated 30 August 2019 Ms H states; it fell in the loo some time around the bank 
holiday..I have contacted (name of utility company) but theyre not sure if they can help. In her complaint form, Ms H then cast some doubt on whether the ring had fallen into the 
toilet as she hadnt heard a splash or seen it fall in. At this point Ms H also raised the 
possibility that the ring had been stolen. 
Our investigator correctly pointed out that for a theft claim to be considered Ms H would 
normally need to have reported a theft to the police. I also appreciate the sensitivities around 
considering theft for Ms H when the item was last seen in her own house. In a more recent 
email to our service, Ms H said; I do not know how my ring was lost. I accept that its not 
always as simple as knowing exactly how a loss occurred and Ms H was simply recalling 
what might have happened as best she could. 
But, Ive to consider if RSA fairly declined this claim - inline with policy terms based on the 
information Ms H gave when making her claim. So, if I consider that the ring was lost down a 
toilet (as this is what RSA assessed the claim on) then RSA have fairly declined the claim as 
this particular type of loss wasnt covered by the particular level of cover Ms H had. 
Our investigator has pointed out that this policy cover level offered protection against a 
number of insured perils and unfortunately where the insured item is no longer in the home, 
its not covered by the level of cover Ms H had.
Therefore, in the specific circumstances of Ms Hs complaint, I dont think that RSA have 
unfairly declined this claim based on the information that she provided around the time of 
making her claim. 
I know that my decision will disappoint Ms H, but I genuinely hope that the ring didnt fall 
down the toilet and that it turns up elsewhere for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  for the reasons outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman