DRN-2364052
The complaint
Ms C complains that National Westminster Bank (NatWest) are charging her higher monthly 
mortgage payments than she was initially shown when she chose her new interest rate 
What happened
In 2018, Ms C took out a mortgage on a capital and interest repayment basis with NatWest 
for around £100,000, over an eight-year term. This initially had a two-year base rate tracker 
product, which expired on 30 April 2020. 
Around March 2020, Ms C looked for new rates online and selected one for 2.25%. She says 
the website showed her an illustration of the monthly payments from May 2020 and this was 
followed with an email to say she would need to pay around £1,120 per month. 
Ms C was sent a variation agreement in March 2020 which confirmed the agreed rate but 
showed a higher repayment figure of £1,133 per month. She tried to contact NatWest to 
discuss this, but due to the effect of the coronavirus pandemic on call volumes and waiting 
times, she says that was unable to speak to anyone. Ms C went ahead with the rate to avoid 
her mortgage reverting to the Standard Variable Rate (SVR). 
She wrote to NatWest who responded to say that the information provided on the website 
and via email was a quote only and that it wouldnt know the exact figure until the rate had 
been applied to the mortgage. Unhappy with this response, Ms C referred the matter to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. Ms C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed further, so its been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms C applied to change her rate, she was provided with an illustration online and this 
was followed with an email showing how much her payments would be on the new rate. Ive 
reviewed this email and can see that it says Ms Cs request for a new mortgage deal had 
been received and that new documentation would be sent in the next three working days. It 
said: heres a quick summary of your request and shows the lower payments required of 
around £1,120 per month.
I can understand the point that Ms C makes - she was provided with a figure in this email 
and I see why she is questioning the change. But I think this was for illustrative purposes to 
show her how much the rate could be - rather than a formal offer of the exact amount that 
would need to be paid monthly on her mortgage. 
Ms C was sent the variation agreement three days after the email. This agreement says that 
figures are based on the date that it was generated that being 30 March 2020. It says: the 
information contained in this Variation Agreement may have changed by the date on which 
you switch to the new product or make the change to your mortgage, with the result that the 
number or value of the Monthly Payments may differ. Although this was provided later than 
the initial quote, this was the formal mortgage documentation to accept the offer and I think 
its sufficiently clear that any quoted figures are not guaranteed and could change. 
Interest rates change daily and can go up and down and Ms Cs initial fixed rate expired on 
30 April 2020 - which is a month after the initial information on the website and in the email 
was provided. I agree that the information provided in the email could have been clearer that 
it was just an illustrative quote, but I think the wider documentation explains this sufficiently.
Its common practice for lenders to provide quotes to give borrowers an estimation of the 
effect of a rate change on monthly payments. This is intended to help borrowers see how 
affordable a rate change may be, especially when opting for this without advice, as has 
happened here. But its only when the rate is applied to that particular mortgage that an 
accurate figure is reached. This is because it depends on the amount of payments that have 
been made to the mortgage and interest rates. 
I can see why this caused confusion, but the initial amount on the website was not 
guaranteed, and, in any event, was revised three days later in the variation agreement. So, I 
dont think that NatWest has treated Ms C unfairly here.  
Ms C has said that she was unable to get through to discuss this with NatWest and so went 
ahead with the rate to avoid her mortgage reverting to the SVR. These delays were caused 
as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. At the time, the government had only just announced 
the first national lockdown and required everyone to work from home, so businesses such as 
NatWest were greatly affected. This combined with an increase in calls to discuss personal 
finances, had a large impact on waiting times. Whilst this must have been frustrating, it was 
a result of a situation that was outside of NatWests control. 
Ms C wrote to NatWest to explain the issues shed experienced, and it apologised for the 
delays, inviting Ms C to get in touch if she incurred any call costs so it can look into this 
further. I think this is a fair resolution in the circumstances and I leave this to Ms C to get in 
touch with NatWest if she would like to pursue this. 
Ive also noted Ms Cs comments that shes had to spend time and effort in bringing this 
complaint and would like compensation for this. Whilst I can appreciate this, its inevitable 
that raising concerns such as this will take some time and effort. And because I dont think 
NatWest has done anything wrong, it follows that I wont be recommending a payment here. 
Having thought about everything, I dont think that NatWest has treated Ms C unfairly and so 
I dont require it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman