DRN-2956681
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim under his 
legal expenses insurance.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known so Ive summarised events.
Mr L was in a dispute about the estate of a late relative. And he sought to claim 
under his UKI legal expenses cover to resolve matters.
UKI appointed a firm to consider the claim (Company A), and one of its senior 
solicitors said it was possible Mr L may have a claim for reasonable financial 
provisional, but they were unable to advise further without a copy of the will.
Mr L was unhappy with these findings and felt his own choice of solicitor (Company 
B) would be better qualified to handle the subject.
UKI disagreed, and said it wouldnt allow for Mr L to appoint his own solicitor unless it 
became necessary to take the claim to court, which hadnt happened here.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained 
for the claim to be successful it required reasonable prospects of success. And he 
was satisfied Company As opinion made it clear this claim didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success at this time. 
The investigator also considered the information provided by Company B and said 
there wasnt evidence to show that the matter was complex or that they would be 
better qualified to give an opinion over Company A. 
Mr L disagreed. He highlighted terms of the policy which said if there was a 
considerable history, complexity or high value UKI may allow the policyholder to 
choose their own solicitor  and said his claim met these requirements.
The investigator looked again. He said UKI deemed the matter to be appropriate for 
its panel firm, and in the absence of legal opinion of someone equally qualified 
suggesting otherwise he was satisfied it had acted fairly.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls policy provides him with legal cover for various situations. And one of the conditions 
of the insurance is that UKI and its appointed representative agrees the claim has 
reasonable prospects of success for the duration of the claim.
Simply, this means it must be more likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. 
This is a common term across insurances of this nature. And it means an insurer will not 
have to cover the cost of claims which are unlikely to succeed. 
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable
prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong.
UKI sought a legal opinion from Company A. And one of its senior solicitors gave their 
thoughts, saying in the absence of having the will in question I am of the view that you do 
not presently appear to have a claim that has reasonable prospects of succeeding that I can 
take forward on your behalf.
The solicitor provided a properly reasoned advice, setting out why the claim wasnt likely to 
succeed without further evidence, and what evidence Mr L would need to obtain. Im 
satisfied this advice was clear, and UKI acted reasonably in following it. 
Mr L has also said he should be entitled to rely on a solicitor of his choice. Ive included the 
terms of the policy that relate to this below.
Your policy provides that we can appoint a legal representative to act for you. If it 
becomes necessary to take your claim to court you may, at that stage, choose your 
own representative.
In cases where there is a considerable history, complexity or high value we may 
allow you to choose your own solicitor to represent you before your matter has to go 
to court. It may also be necessary because the solicitor we appoint has a conflict of 
interest.
These terms are in line with the relevant law. Until the point where proceedings are 
necessary a policyholder doesnt generally have a right to choose their solicitor. In this case, 
the matter hasnt proceeded to court and Ive seen nothing to suggest theres any conflict of 
interest. Mr L has said the matter has a considerable history, is complex, and of high value. 
But even if I agreed his claim met this criteria, it says may allow which suggests this is at 
UKIs discretion. UKI didnt deem the matter outside of the capability of its solicitors. And Ive 
been given no legal opinion or evidence from Mr L which suggests otherwise. So this hasnt 
changed my mind.
My final decision
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman