DRN-3606995
The complaint
Miss M complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she made under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M has home insurance underwritten by Ageas. She made a series of claims in late 
2019 and early 2020. These related to escapes of water in her bathroom (two claims), a 
burglary and an escape of water from her boiler.
This complaint relates to the escapes of water from Miss Ms bathroom. Miss M is aware that 
any complaints she has about the handling of the other claims should be made separately  
to Ageas and then to us if shes not satisfied with Ageas responses. 
Ageas have used a number of agents to handle Miss Ms claims, but for the sake of 
simplicity, Ill refer to actions taken by those agents as Ageas actions.
After the first escape of water, in August 2019, repairs were carried out to stop the leak  
seals were repaired and/or replaced around the waste pipe from the bath - and to rectify 
damage to the ceiling and walls in the room beneath the bathroom.
Miss M says the company which carried out drying in the bathroom said that the bath should 
be removed temporarily so that the timbers under the floor could be inspected. This hadnt 
yet been done when a second escape of water occurred in February 2020. It appears Ageas 
had agreed that the bath should be removed and the timbers inspected, but hadnt yet 
arranged a date and time for that to happen with Miss M.
Miss M says that if the bath had been removed, other problems with the pipework 
underneath her bath would have been discovered and the second escape of water wouldnt 
have happened.
She also says the second leak caused extensive damage to her property, rendering it 
uninhabitable. She says the leak affected the electrics in her house and she had no power in 
her kitchen. And she said the floor in the bathroom was structurally unstable and unsafe.
Miss M says the loss adjustor agreed she should move into alternative accommodation. 
Which she did. She took hotel rooms in the local area from mid-February and later moved 
into a holiday let for a number of weeks.
There was much discussion between Miss M and Ageas about the alternative 
accommodation and about the repairs that were necessary following the second escape of 
water. 
The nature and substance of that debate is well-known to both parties, so I dont need to go 
into detail here.
Suffice to say that Ageas sent a surveyor to inspect the property. He was accompanied on 
that visit by a friend of Miss Ms who is also a loss adjustor. 
After receiving the surveyors report, Ageas proposed to settle the claim by: 
paying for Miss Ms alternative accommodation up to around 9 March 2020 but not 
after that date; 
paying £500 as a cash settlement for repairs to the bathroom; and 
paying Miss M £200 in compensation for the trouble and upset cause by some 
confusion in communications and by poor service.
Miss M wasnt happy with the proposed outcome and complained to Ageas and then to us. 
She wants Ageas to pay all of her alternative accommodation costs. She also wants Ageas 
to pay for repairs shes had carried out to rectify damage which she says was caused by the 
second escape of water and which cost considerably more than the £500 settlement Ageas 
paid her.
Miss M believes Ageas should also pay for repairs to her electrics. Shes unhappy shes 
been charged two excesses for the escape of water claims in 2020. She says she was told 
by the loss adjustor that theyd be treated as one claim. 
She also thinks Ageas service has been very poor  and involved too many different agents 
and loss adjustors. She says the stress shes been caused has exacerbated the illness she 
was suffering from at the time. And she thinks its wrong that Ageas refuse to pay VAT on 
invoices submitted for repair work.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Ageas needed to do anything more for Miss M. 
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding any element of this complaint. Ill explain why Ive come to that conclusion 
in more detail below and Ill deal with each separate issue Miss M has raised. 
However, its worth saying at the outset that where we receive a complaint of this nature, our 
approach is always to go first and foremost to what the experts involved in the case have 
had to say  whether they be loss adjustors appointed by the business, loss assessors 
appointed by the customer, surveyors or tradesmen. And thats exactly what Ive done in this 
particular case.
Ill deal with some of the less complex aspects of the complaint first and turn to the more 
substantive issues later.
The excesses
Miss M has effectively made three separate claims in 2020. One relating to the escape of 
water in the bathroom. One relating to the escape of water from the boiler. And one relating 
to the theft. They are in essence unrelated and unconnected, but for the fact that they all 
happened within a short space of time.
Miss Ms policy terms set out very clearly that each separate claim will attract an excess fee. 
And those fees are set out in the schedule - £500 for each escape of water claim and £100 
for most other types of claim, including theft.Ageas have charged Miss M a total of £1,100 in excesses for the three claims. Thats what 
the policy terms say theyll do and what they are reasonably entitled to so. Charging those 
three excesses is not unfair or unreasonable.
I can see from the evidence we have on file that the original loss adjustor involved in these 
claims appears to have believed that the two escapes of water (bathroom and boiler) could 
and should be treated as one claim. And he appears to have given Miss M that impression.
That was factually wrong. Ageas have admitted Miss M was misled by what she was told. 
But that doesnt mean they should now do what the original loss adjustor said they should do 
and charge only one excess. 
Its fair and reasonable for them to compensate Miss M for her disappointed expectations. 
And Im satisfied that  and other elements of poor service and/or poor communication  are 
covered by the £200 Ageas have already paid Miss M. Ill explain why Iv;e come to that 
conclusion in more detail later.
The VAT 
Its standard practice that when insurers cash settle a claim, they wont pay the VAT element 
of any estimate or quotation unless and until they have proof that the required work has in 
fact been carried out by a VAT-registered company- and paid for.
Thats not unreasonable or unfair. Customers may choose to carry out work themselves or 
get work done by individuals or firms that arent VAT-registered. And in that case, if they paid 
the VAT element of the estimate, to put it as simply as I can, insurers would be giving money 
to customers which is not going to pay for the required repairs.
The Alternative Accommodation
Theres been a lot of discussion about this between Miss M and Ageas. Im going to try to 
simplify things as far as I can.
The original loss adjustor agreed with Miss M that she should be in alternative 
accommodation whilst her bath was removed to allow the proposed inspection of the timbers 
underneath the bathroom floor.
Whilst we cant know what was said in the verbal conversations between the loss adjustor 
and Miss M, Im satisfied that the most natural reading of the email exchanges suggests it 
was reasonably  but not absolutely  clear from the outset that Ageas would pay for 
alternative accommodation only whilst the bath was removed. And that was because the 
house would be uninhabitable for that brief period only.
Ageas have accepted that the original communication wasnt absolutely and unequivocally 
clear. Thats why theyve agreed to pay for Miss Ms accommodation up to around 9 March 
2020. 
From 9 March 2020 onwards, Ageas agents  including the original loss adjustor  were 
absolutely clear that they did not think the house was uninhabitable when the bath wasnt 
removed  and that they wouldnt pay for alternative accommodation.
Miss M has said the house was uninhabitable for two reasons  which she gave at different 
times. 
She said her friend the surveyor had inspected the house and said it was uninhabitable. That appears to have been partly because he thought the bathroom floor was unsound and 
unstable. He also described the house as resembling a building site. 
Ageas have justifiably pointed out that at around the same time, Miss M was having 
extensive work done on the house which is not related to the escape of water claim. 
Although Miss M says that work was carried out earlier, it seems very likely to me that there 
must have been disruption in the house resulting from that work. 
It would certainly not appear justified to describe the house (not the bathroom, I note) as a 
building site if the only disruption at the time was that caused by the escape of water in the 
bathroom.
The second reason Miss M gave for the house being uninhabitable was the failure of the 
electrics  particularly in the kitchen. She says this was due to the escapes of water in the 
bathroom, which affected light switches and wiring in the room below.
Theres a slightly confused picture here because Miss M says an electrician got things 
sorted soon after the first escape of water (in August 2019) but they went off again a few 
days later. And when she reported this to the electrician, they never came back to the house.
That would suggest Miss M had no electricity  certainly not to some parts of the house  
from August or early September 2019. But she only reported the issue to Ageas  as a 
justification for her moving out of the house into alternative accommodation  well after 
March 2020, when the dispute over alternative accommodation arose.
That doesnt seem to add up to me, but leaving that aside, Ill turn to the relevant expert 
opinions on the issues in Miss Ms bathroom and the rest of the house.
Miss M says her electrician indicated that the problem with her electrics was caused by the 
escape of water in August 2019. Miss M hasnt provided any report from that electrician or 
any invoice setting out the work he carried out. Ageas asked her to contact the electrician 
again and obtain a report or other evidence, but thats not been forthcoming.
The surveyor who visited the house in May 2020 said the leaks in the bathroom were limited 
and short-lived. He noted the lack of any significant water damage on the ceilings or walls in 
the room below after the leak in February 2020. 
He concluded that the problems with Miss Ms electrics couldnt have been caused by the 
escape of water in February 2020  or seemingly by the earlier leak. 
He noted that there was a problem with damp at the property unrelated to the insured 
event(s), which might be the cause of the problem, but that an electrician might be better 
able to identify the root cause.
There is no evidence of any sort  and certainly none from any other expert  which might 
link the problems with Miss Ms electrics to the escapes of water in her bathroom. 
If Miss M could provide any such evidence, I have no doubt Ageas would be willing to 
consider it, but to date she hasnt done so. And it appears shes been asked or advised on a 
number of occasions to obtain information or evidence from her own electricians.
When he visited the property in May, Ageas surveyor was also able to inspect the flooring 
and timbers beneath the bath and in the rest of the bathroom. Again, he concluded that any 
escape of water had been short-lived and insufficient to cause extensive damage. He reported that Miss Ms loss adjustor friend agreed that the instability in the bathroom floor 
that hed previously noted was caused by the laminate flooring swelling after the leak  and 
not by any weakness in the floor itself or the supporting timbers.
The evidence we have on file also suggests the original loss adjustor had earlier inspected 
the floor and timbers in the bathroom, removing the bath panel to get access. 
Although this wasnt the full bath removal and inspection Miss M says the drying company 
suggested (and which Ageas had agreed to arrange before the second leak occurred), its 
another expert view that the bathroom floor was sound - and certainly hadnt suffered 
damage which would render the house uninhabitable.
Again, there is no competing evidence  expert or otherwise  to suggest the escapes of 
water made the bathroom unsafe or uninhabitable.
In making this decision, its not my role to act as alternative loss adjustor and re-assess the 
claim. My role is to decide whether Ageas acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Miss M in 
making the decision they did based on the evidence they had at the time.
In assessing this claim, Ageas had strong expert evidence to suggest that the problems with 
the electrics werent claim-related and that the bathroom had been usable throughout - and 
certainly not structurally unstable, as Miss M suggested.
In that context, it wasnt unreasonable for them to decline to pay for Miss Ms alternative 
accommodation after around 9 March 2020. And Im satisfied they made their position clear 
to Miss M by that date at the latest. If she then chose to pay to live elsewhere, that was her 
own choice, made in full knowledge of Ageas position.
In short, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable, if not generous, for Ageas to pay for 
alternative accommodation until around 9 March 2020  based on the fact that there was 
room for Miss M to have misinterpreted the earlier emails from the original loss adjustor.
I cant reasonably conclude that Ageas should pay for any alternative accommodation after 
that date, for the reasons Ive set out above. In short, theres no evidence the house was 
uninhabitable. And Ageas made that clear to Miss M  and told her they wouldnt pay for any 
further alternative accommodation.
The cash settlement figure
Ageas have paid a cash settlement of £500 in relation to the February escape of water claim 
relating to the bathroom. This was based on the surveyors report in May 2020, which 
specified and costed the claim-related works which should be carried out  including 
replacement of the bath panel and bathroom laminate flooring.
Miss M says that when her contractors stripped the bathroom, they discovered a leaking 
pipe (not the ones fixed by the plumber in August 2019 or February 2020), which caused 
more damage than the surveyor had been able to see - and which had been long-standing.
Miss M has provided photographs and a video which show the pipe in question. It does 
appear to have residue on the outside which might indicate a leak of some sort. However, 
again, theres no expert evidence to suggest how long-standing and/or serious the leak was. 
What is clear is that the surveyor who inspected the property in May had access under the 
bath and may have been able to see the pipes. Even if not, he could and would have seen 
any serious damage associated with that alleged long-term and on-going leak. In fact, he took photographs which show that the boards and floor under the bath were dry at the time. 
His photographs also show that a section of the floor underneath the bath had been covered 
with hardboard (also completely dry). That area corresponds to the area in a photograph 
Miss M has also sent which shows a hole in the floorboards beneath the pipes in question. 
She says the hole is proof of an on-going and long-standing leak.
To be frank, looking at both photographs, I suspect the hardboard was put there  possibly 
long before Miss M owned the property  because of the hole. If that hole had been caused 
by a leak in the pipes (which would also explain the residue on the pipes), it had likely been 
fixed before Miss M moved into the property.
The surveyor was also able to conclude that the floor and timbers were sound and stable  
and that there was minimal damage to the room below the bathroom. If there had been a 
significant leak which was long-standing, there would have been extensive and very visible 
damage, which would undoubtedly have been observed far sooner.
On balance, and again looking at the expert evidence, it seems most likely that Miss M had 
two localised and relatively minor escapes of water in the bathroom  in August 2019 and 
February 2020. There was possibly a separate and presumably very slow on-going leak from 
a pipe behind and underneath the bath (which may have been fixed historically), but which  
if it has persisted  had caused little or no damage.
The plumber who fixed the leaks after the two escapes of water has provided a report on 
what caused them  essentially, failures in the seals on the bath waste pipe in August 2019 
and a different issue with an element of the pop-up plug / waste mechanism in February 
2020. I note the plumber puts both these issues down to the old age and usage of the bath 
and the waste mechanisms.
Again, looking at all the available evidence, I cant conclude that Ageas decision to offer a 
settlement for the repairs specified by the surveyor was in any way unfair or unreasonable.
Miss M has presented invoices for the work she actually had carried out. As she says, she 
spent considerably more than £500  in fact, several thousands of pounds. Miss M doesnt 
say Ageas should pay those invoices in their entirety. She says they should cover some of 
the costs, although she isnt specific about which ones.
What is clear to me from looking at those invoices is that Miss M had her entire bathroom 
and toilet stripped and replaced. And that she had significant work done in the room 
downstairs. 
Theres clearly a lot of work covered by those invoices which is not related to the escape(s) 
of water. The surveyor said the claim-related work was replacement of a bath panel and the 
laminate flooring in the bathroom, plus some minor decoration downstairs.
Id ask Miss M to bear in mind that what shed be entitled to under her policy was repair and 
replacement to cover the claim-related damage (Ive set out above why its reasonable to 
suggest the surveyors report from the visit in May lists those repairs and replacements in 
full). And that shed be entitled to like-for-like replacement, rather than improvement.
In short, Im satisfied Ageas have acted fairly and reasonably in paying an appropriate cash 
settlement for the works identified by the expert surveyor as necessary to repair the damage 
related to the two escapes of water in the bathroom. Again, I should stress, there is no other 
expert evidence to suggest that the escapes of water resulted in more extensive damage.Miss Ms trouble and upset
Ageas have paid Miss M £200 to compensate her for the trouble and upset she was caused 
by their failures in communication and service. Whilst Ageas werent specific about what that 
payment was for, its clear they accepted that the communication from the first loss adjustor 
wasnt optimal and left open a misinterpretation about the alternative accommodation. 
They also accepted there were occasional delays in replying to Miss M when she raised 
queries about the claim. And its not disputed that Miss M was told at first that the two claims 
would be treated as one  with one excess payable.
I can see that Miss M might have suffered some distress and inconvenience, particularly 
around the disappointed expectations about the alternative accommodation and the excess. 
And I appreciate that this may have been at a difficult time for Miss M given the health 
problems she says she was experiencing at the time. 
However, I also have to bear in mind that Ageas did in fact pay for all of Miss Ms alternative 
accommodation costs up until the point that they made their position clear  on the basis that 
there may have been a misunderstanding. And some of the difficulties in the communication 
between Miss M and Ageas have been the result of her failing to get back to them, or to 
provide the information theyve requested. 
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied that £200 is fair and reasonable compensation 
for Miss Ms trouble and upset and I wont be asking Ageas to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman