DRN-3877984
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited declined to raise a chargeback regarding the 
termination of his Tinder subscription.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr B bought a one year subscription to Tinder Gold and paid for it with his 
Starling Bank debit card. In September, Tinder unilaterally terminated his account without 
giving a reason or a refund, except to imply that he had contravened its terms and 
conditions. He asked the bank to raise a chargeback, but the bank declined. It said it had no 
chargeback rights under Mastercards rules, as Tinder had not violated its own terms and 
conditions, which state that in the event of an account being closed, no refunds are due.
Mr B complained to our service about that decision. He said that neither Tinder nor the bank 
had specified which of Tinders terms and conditions he had allegedly breached.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint, but he did not uphold it. He thought that a 
chargeback would not have succeeded, and so the bank had not been obliged to attempt 
one.
Mr B did not accept that opinion. He said that it amounted to defamation, in that Tinders 
terms and conditions said it would only terminate an account for misconduct, and so the 
bank and the investigator must have accepted that this allegation was true. He said that the 
chargeback reason cases involving interruption of ongoing services would apply. He asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mastercards chargeback rules, one of the chargeback reasons is Goods or services not 
provided. One of the time limits for raising a chargeback for this reason is:
In cases involving interruption of ongoing services, within 120 calendar days of the 
date the cardholder becomes aware that the service ceased.
So this reason applies not only to a service which was never provided in the first place, but 
also to a service which, once provided, subsequently ceases. The rules go on to say that the 
card issuer may only charge back an amount which represents the unused portion of the 
services. So I agree that there was a chargeback reason which the bank could have used in 
Mr Bs case.
I put this to Starling Bank, and it accepted that there had been an applicable chargeback 
reason. However, it went on to say  accurately  that it is not obliged to attempt a 
chargeback if it thinks it is unlikely to succeed. The decision to raise a chargeback, or not, is 
at the discretion of the bank.
My role is to decide whether the bank exercised that discretion reasonably in this instance. 
The bank has a duty to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and to treat them 
fairly.
The bank told me that in its opinion, Tinders terms and conditions clearly stated that it could 
terminate its service if a customer contravened its service agreement, and so if the bank had 
raised a chargeback then Tinder would most likely have contested it. The bank had not 
asked Tinder to specify what the alleged contravention was, since it had not thought that 
doing so would affect the outcome.
That explanation is not completely consistent with the banks final response to Mr B in its 
email dated 13 October 2022. In that email, the bank told him I'm afraid that as they [Tinder] 
are not in violation of their own terms, we do not have any chargeback rights under the 
Mastercard guidelines in this situation. The banks explanation now is that it did have 
chargeback rights, but had not expected there to be a successful outcome if it had exercised 
them. However, even if this is retrospective reasoning, rather than the banks rationale at the 
time, I would still only uphold a complaint about chargeback if I thought that a chargeback 
would probably have succeeded. 
Tinders terms and conditions say, in section 4 (my emphasis):
"Tinder may terminate your account at any time without notice if it believes that you 
have violated this Agreement. Upon such termination, you will not be entitled to any 
refund for purchases."
In my view, the words if it believes are significant, because they mean that Tinder can 
judge for itself whether a customer has violated its service agreement.
For this reason, I do not think that a chargeback dispute is the proper forum in which to 
challenge Tinders decision to terminate a customers account. Rather, the chargeback 
process could only be used to determine whether a customer whose account has been 
terminated is entitled to a refund or not. Clearly, section 4 says not. So I am satisfied that 
that is as far as Starling Bank needed to inquire.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
12 April 2023. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman