DRN-4122186
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited hasnt met the claims she made 
under her group income protection policy.
What happened
Ms A has the benefit of a group income protection policy. Benefit is payable if the policy 
definition of incapacity is met after a waiting period of 26 weeks. 
Ms A made two claims under her policy. The first was for the period November 2017 to 
January 2019, the second from November 2019.
Aviva declined the claims so Ms A brought her complaint here. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that they be upheld. Ms A appealed. In summary she said:
There was no reference in the 2015 documents to an exclusion for work related 
absences
She was concerned about the investigators comment regarding work related matters
There was a four-year delay in raising incapacity as reason to decline the claim
She didnt know that she had to show her incapacity she needed proof that she was 
unable to carry out her job
She is seeking evidence regarding the impact of her illnesses on her ability to carry 
out the main tasks of her job
She wasnt sure why her reported symptoms  loss of concentration, poor memory, 
slower working speed, mistakes and forgetfulness wouldnt cause incapacity
I issued a provisional decision on 22 March 2023. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Our investigator set out in detail the medical 
evidence she had relied on and Im not going to repeat it here as it isnt in dispute. Neither 
am Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I can see that Ms A has been through a very stressful time.  Having reviewed everything I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator regarding the first period of absence, 
but not the second. Ill explain why: 
I havent disregarded the fact that Ms A had been signed off work by her GP and 
occupational health had reached a similar conclusion. But in the light of all the 
medical evidence, I dont find it was unfair of Aviva to decline the claim for the first 
period of absence. The evidence doesnt show that Ms A was incapable of 
performing the material and substantial duties of her occupation due to illness or 
injury, rather the evidence suggests it was for employment related reasons.
It is understandable why Ms A didnt feel able to work due to the situation there and 
how this impacted her. Although the earlier policy doesnt specifically exclude work 
related absences, the policy term does require the absences to be due to illness or 
injury that is to be medically supported. The parties are aware of the medical 
evidence - there are more than a dozen references to the situation at Ms As 
workplace. Having considered this together with the representations made I cant say 
that Aviva treated Ms A unfairly in declining the claim Ms A made for the first 
absence period on the basis that she didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity.
Ms A returned to work but after some months, on 4 November 2019, again went off 
sick and submitted the second claim. Due to a change in the policy wording, for the 
second period the policy specifically doesnt cover work related absences. The 
medical evidence shows that Ms A had been diagnosed with depression and anxiety 
and how this impacted her. Aviva carried out a further medical review in particular 
because Ms A had advised that other conditions may have been causing her 
cognitive difficulties. The conclusion of these investigations was, to summarise, that 
there was no underlying organic cognitive deficit. 
Nevertheless Ms As psychiatrist reported on 28 February 2020 that Ms A has a 
significant anxiety disorder. He found she was unfit to work because of poor 
concentration, multiple mistakes and forgetfulness. Aviva has not suggested that 
these symptoms could be addressed with workplace adjustments.
An Occupational Health report in November 2019 concluded that Ms As condition 
was not caused by work and that she was not fit for work or redeployment at that 
time. A further report dated 29 April 2020 said that the main issue around Ms As 
return to work was her anxiety and associated cognitive difficulties. Commenting on 
her fitness for work the occupational physician concluded It would be important, if 
possible, to first adequately control her anxiety, such that any residual cognitive 
issues can be considered, but how realistic or possible this is would be best 
considered by her psychiatrist.
Aviva felt that there was no evidence of any significant deterioration in Ms As health 
prior to her ceasing work in November 2019. But in the light of the medical evidence 
referred to immediately above I am persuaded that Ms A was suffering from an 
illness which prevented her from carrying out the material and substantial duties of 
her role.
However as Ms A doesnt meet the policy criteria for linked absences, she would 
have needed to complete the policy deferred period of 26 weeks for her second claim 
to be admitted. The deferred period for the second claim ended on 3 May 2020. Im 
satisfied the evidence I have referred to above demonstrates that Ms A was 
incapacitated during the deferred period. It may well be that she continued to meet 
the policy criteria for benefit to be paid for the whole 26 weeks and beyond, but the evidence I have seen doesnt enable me to determine that as it concludes before the 
end of the deferred period.
I accept Ms As comment that she was unaware of the incapacity criteria  but as this 
is clearly in her policies, I cant say that Aviva is to blame in this regard.
For the reasons given my provisional decision was that Ms A didnt meet the policy criteria 
for her first claim to be admitted. It didnt treat her unfairly by declining her first claim. But I 
wasnt minded to agree with Avivas reasoning with regard to the second claim. I 
provisionally decided that Aviva should reassess Ms As claim for the second period in the 
light of any further evidence she supplied.
Aviva was happy with the provisional decision. It indicated that with regard to the second 
period of absence Ms A would have been entitled to appeal at the time and it is willing to 
consider new evidence now. It said it would await further evidence from Ms A to support her 
claim for the second period of absence. 
Ms A responded with further detailed points with respect to both the first and second 
absences from work. A representative made submissions on behalf of Ms A, but for 
simplicity I will just refer to refer to Ms A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As in my provisional decision I would like to stress that all representations have been 
considered, but Ive focused on what are the key issues. 
With regard to the first period of absence, Ms A was strongly of the view that the medical 
evidence did show that Ms A was incapable of performing the material and substantial duties 
of her occupation due to illness. I do understand her strength of feeling about this and have 
gone back over the evidence in order to further consider the points she has made. But 
looking at the evidence considered by Aviva to date as a whole, Im not persuaded that my 
provisional conclusion was incorrect. I do accept Ms A was unwell and experiencing great 
difficulties at work, but I cant say Aviva treated Ms A unfairly in concluding that she didnt 
meet the policy definition of incapacity at that time. 
I acknowledge that Ms A would welcome the opportunity to collect further information 
regarding her first absence from the medical professionals who treated her. She recognises 
though that this decision though is looking at Avivas response to date. Further evidence 
would need to be considered by Aviva. Ms A should be aware too that this service would not 
necessarily be able to re-consider the first absence. We may be able to do so if material new 
evidence which the ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently 
become available to Ms A. 
With regard to the second period of absence I remain of the opinion that there is evidence 
that Ms A did meet the incapacity definition, but this doesnt extend beyond the deferred 
period. Aviva will reassess the second claim in the light of any further evidence or 
submissions that Ms A makes. Ms A has submitted several reports in support of the second 
period of absence. She considers it is reasonable to assume that Aviva has seen these 
reports, but they post-date the final response in respect of this claim. My decision is that 
Aviva must reassess the claim for the second period in the light of evidence Ms A submits. 
For clarity it is for her to show she meets the policy definition. She should not assume that evidence she would like to be considered is already with Aviva. That is not to say Aviva 
wont request medical evidence in order to reassess the claim, but the onus is on Ms A in the 
first instance rather than the other way around.
My final decision
My final decision is: 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt treat Ms A unfairly by declining her first 
claim.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must reassess the claim for Ms As second period 
of absence in the light of any further medical evidence that she submits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman