DRN-1465601
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage they made under their buildings insurance.
Mr and Mrs B have been represented when bringing this complaint. To keep things simple, 
I'll refer to them and their representative collectively as "Mr and Mrs B."
What happened
Around April 2019 Mr and Mrs B first noticed water ingress on their kitchen ceiling. So they 
contacted UKI to report damage to their roof and make a claim under their buildings policy.
UKI reviewed the damage and declined the claim for external works. It said the damage to 
Mr and Mrs B's roof, including cracked tiles and failing cement fillet, wasn't consistent with a 
one-off storm. And instead it said this appeared to be caused gradually or by wear and tear, 
both of which aren't covered by the policy. But UKI did agree to cover the related cost of 
internal repairs. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said it was unfair for UKI to decline the claim as it was 
possible several storm incidents across the winter months could've caused the damage. 
They also felt UKI hadn't treated them fairly as they had reported the damage when it first 
appeared, and it hadn't reasonably considered that they wouldn't be able to see the damage 
or roof failing over time. Mr and Mrs B also questioned the detail of UKI's investigation. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs B's complaint and didn't uphold it. She 
wasn't persuaded the damage to the roof was caused by high winds or a storm, and she was 
satisfied UKI had fairly considered and declined the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs B didn't agree that the damage in question wasn't consistent with storm winds. 
And because an agreement couldn't be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for 
an ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
UKI has agreed to settle the claim related to internal damage, so the question I have to 
consider in this case is whether UKI has fairly declined Mr and Mrs B's claim for storm 
damage to their roof. As our investigator has outlined, when considering whether a claim for 
storm damage should be successful, we will consider the following:
Was there a storm on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?Only if the answer if "yes" to each of these questions would I consider that this claim should 
be paid. So I've considered these in turn. UKI hasn't disputed that there was a storm so I will 
begin on the second question.
Is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Its not in dispute that UKI has spoken to Mr and Mrs B's roofer who has explained the 
damage hed seen  including multiple cracked tiles, failed cement fillet and water ingress 
through the ridge. UKIs said this type of damage wasnt consistent with storm damage and 
that Mr and Mrs Bs roofer had agreed. 
UKI hasnt been able to provide a call recording of this conversation, but Ive seen its call 
notes that reflect this discussion. Mr and Mrs B said their roofer didnt confirm the damage 
wasnt storm related to them, but they havent provided any evidence or statements to the 
contrary from the roofer. So it seems likely that this was an accurate reflection of the 
conversation, and in turn Im not persuaded the damage was related to a storm.
Mr and Mrs B have challenged the level of investigation UKI undertook when deciding their 
claim. Saying it wasnt fair for it to rely on the roofers comments and a short video of the 
damage. However, on the facts presented, all expert parties agree the damage wasnt 
caused by a storm, and the damage reported isnt in keeping with a storm. 
So while Mr and Mrs B may feel strongly the damage was caused by a storm and the claim 
should be covered, theyve provided no expert opinions or evidence to support this. And as a 
result Im satisfied the decision UKI reached was fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman