DRN-4421395
The complaint
Miss R, represented by Miss E, has complained about her car insurer, Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited, because two years after an accident, which it was not covering her for, it 
sought to recover costs from her for its outlay to third-party insurers. 
What happened
In early March 2020, Miss R was driving her car whilst under the influence of alcohol and 
crashed, damaging four cars and some property. Miss E notified Advantage. She was told 
that it wouldnt cover the damage to Miss Rs car, but the policy would pay for the losses of 
the third-party car owners. When Miss R spoke to Advantage a few days later she was also 
told her damages wouldnt be covered, but also that Advantage may invoice her for some 
of its outlay.
In July 2020 Advantage cancelled Miss Rs policy. The letter confirmed it was not covering 
Miss R for the accident. 
Up until late 2021 Advantage focused on responding to the third-party insurers regarding 
claims made by their policyholders as owners of the damaged cars. In June 2022 Advantage 
wrote to Miss R and asked her to pay around £8,000, which was the total vehicle damage 
costs it had paid for two of the three third party cars it had been made aware of claims for. In 
July 2022 Advantage sent an update letter to Miss R setting out its total outlay in respect of 
all the three damaged cars, plus hire costs. It said it expected Miss R to pay it back its total 
outlay of £19,175.55.
Miss R was shocked and upset. She had been to court regarding a criminal charge related to 
the incident in August 2020 and since had been endeavouring to put matters behind her. 
Having not heard from Advantage since 2020, along with what Miss E recalled being told 
(that the policy would cover the third-party losses), as well as the uncertain nature of what 
she had been told may happen, shed thought the matter was closed. Miss R felt she could 
have done more in the years since the accident if shed known it was most likely that 
Advantage would ask her to reimburse its total outlay. Advantage acknowledged providing 
some mis-advice in the early stages of the claim. But said that wouldnt change what it was 
now asking Miss R to repay  although it would be happy to arrange a payment plan. Miss R 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator didnt think Advantage had unfairly or unreasonably expected Miss R to 
repay its costs. But she felt it could and should have communicated better with Miss R about 
it. She said Advantage should pay £250 compensation. 
Miss E responded to the Investigator and said Advantages recovery action, coming when 
and how it did, had a severe impact on Miss R. Advantage said it disagreed with the 
Investigators suggested outcome because it felt it had handled things adequately. And that 
there was nothing wrong in it having focused on the claims in the intervening years rather 
than trying to contact Miss R when, reasonably, it could give no meaningful update until all of 
its costs were in and accounted for. The complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I set out the following things. I felt Advantage hadnt 
adequately advised or communicated with Miss R about what her liability may be. I noted 
that Advantage had chosen to act here as though it would have had liability under the Road 
Traffic Act to settle the other parties claims  but felt that it should have chosen to act as if it 
were an Article 75 insurer instead. The latter meaning that it wouldnt have had to settle for 
the damage caused to the third-parties vehicles. That being the case I felt it couldnt 
reasonably seek to recover its outlay for vehicle damage from Miss R, some £12,000. I also 
felt it had not fairly handled the credit hire claims from the third-parties. Meaning there was a 
further sum of around £1,600 I felt Advantage could not fairly seek to recover from Miss R. 
I thought Advantage then could only look to Miss R to return around £5,000 to it, rather than 
the circa £19,000 it had asked for. I also thought it should pay her £500 compensation.
Miss R was satisfied by my provisional findings. She said shed be happy to off-set any 
compensation award against the amount owed to Advantage.
Advantage disagreed with my findings. It said it felt it had done enough on the call in 
March 2020 to put Miss R on notice that she might be liable for costs and it couldnt 
reasonably update her until all of its costs were known. It didnt think shed have been better 
prepared if it had told her more. So it didnt agree with the compensation award. Regarding 
hire costs, Advantage said that it has an agreement with the hire provider to pay all costs 
unless its driver is not at fault.
Advantage, having sought legal advice, felt it hadnt been free to choose to act as an 
Article 75 insurer. It said if matters had proceeded to court, it would have been liable under 
the Road Traffic Act. So it was right, it said, for it to have dealt proactively with the claims as 
if it were the Road Traffic Act insurer.
I found Advantages objection regarding the Road Traffic Act and Article 75 to be persuasive. 
So I felt my initial view and provisional outcome for the complaint had to be revised. This 
caused me, on 11 October 2023 to issue a second provisional decision. The change in 
outcome was significant for Miss R  Id initially felt Advantage couldnt fairly seek from her 
reimbursement of its circa £12,000 of outlay for vehicle damage claims, but my new view 
was that it could reasonably do so. That new finding also impacted my compensation award 
 Id said Advantage should pay £500 compensation, which my further findings reduced to 
£250. My findings and outcome regarding vehicle hire costs remained largely the same  
although I did correct a minor typing error.
Advantage said it accepted my provisional decision dated 11 October 2023.
Miss E responded on behalf of Miss R. Miss E said they did not agree with my provisional 
decision dated 11 October 2023. Miss E said I had done exactly what Advantage had  said 
one thing and then changed it. She indicated that changing my view because Advantage 
could afford legal representation was unfair. And asked what compelling evidence had been 
provided at such a late stage.
She said she felt I had also changed my mind about Miss R having been mistreated by 
Advantage, thereby reducing the compensation award. 
Miss E said Miss R cant appoint a solicitor and she has no way to pay Advantage  so, she 
asked, what do I expect Miss R to do now. She said she thought some middle ground could 
be reached  that I could tell Advantage it should only reclaim £11,000 from Miss R. She 
said if Advantage would agree to take just £7,000, this would be paid in a lump sum. 
Otherwise, with Miss Rs income, it would take her years to repay Advantage. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally: 
with regret for the upset I know this will cause Miss R, on this occasion Ive found 
Advantages challenge, regarding Article 75 and the Road Traffic Act, to be compelling. As 
such Ive reconsidered my provisional findings and I no longer intend to require Advantage to 
cease its recovery activity regarding its outlay for vehicle damage. My compensation award 
is affected too, although I still intend to award £250. My view on the credit hire issue has not 
changed and I intend to maintain my direction in that respect.  
Communicating about recovery
Ive considered what Advantage has said about communicating with Miss R. But I think it 
could and should have been clearer with her. Both in the early stages after the incident and 
whilst it handled the third-party claims. Some timely updates from it would have meant     
Miss R would have known that this had not gone away. Instead, Advantage vaguely 
referenced a possibility of some liability, said nothing more for two years and then presented 
Miss R with a demand to pay it over £19,000. It still had a duty to treat Miss R fairly and my 
view remains that was not a fair and reasonable approach. I said provisionally that this was 
particularly the case where Miss Rs representative, Miss E, had been told  quite clearly 
and several times during her call with Advantage  that the policy would pay. I think 
Advantage should have written to Miss R, or at least put more of an explanation in the 
cancellation letter, to explain what was then happening with her cover and liability for the 
losses sustained. It may not have been able to give her exact costs, but it could have put her 
on notice that its outlay would likely include, intending as it did to settle things as the Road 
Traffic Act insurer, repair costs for each car, assuming they could be repaired, and hire costs 
to keep the drivers mobile whilst the damage to their cars was resolved  which are often 
substantial. I still think that context, in the form of a reasonable, frank discussion, and 
additional detail would have helped Miss R. 
As it was Miss R was left not knowing what Advantage really intended or what the ultimate 
outcome for her actions would be. And I can understand that two years after the criminal 
issue was settled, Advantages sudden and out of the blue request for £8,000, quite quickly 
followed by an updated total of over £19,000, was distressing for her. I do think that is 
something which could have been mitigated if a discussion, as Ive described above, had 
taken place earlier. I think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable to account for the 
shock and worry Miss R experienced when receiving those demands, out of the blue, for 
payment. 
Road Traffic Act (RTA) and Article 75 (A75)
Both pieces of legislation, in part, seek to protect drivers who suffer damage or injury by 
another driver who is insured, but whose policy wont offer cover for some reason. Strictly 
speaking an insurer would only become either an RTA insurer or an A75 insurer if there was 
a court judgment. But most insurers will act proactively to keep matters out of court, because 
going to court is costly and time consuming. So an insurer will often be wise to situations that 
might, if left to a court decision, result in it having to act as the RTA or A75 insurer, then 
acting as its felt a court would expect it to in that role to settle the relevant third-party losses. 
I explained provisionally that the scope of losses for an RTA insurer to settle is wider than 
that of an A75 insurer.
The legislation is quite prescriptive in respect of when RTA or A75 applies. Essentially an 
insurer is an RTA insurer unless it can rely on a defence to avoid liability under the RTA. If 
there are circumstances where it is likely a defence could apply, the insurer could reasonably avoid acting as the RTA insurer and theyd usually have to act as an A75 insurer 
instead. An example of a defence which an insurer could rely upon to avoid liability under the 
RTA (but not A75) is where the use of the relevant vehicle was other than permitted under 
the policy. 
I have considered then whether there was a defence which likely would have been available 
to the insurer to avoid liability under the RTA. I think that the non-permitted use defence is 
the only likely example of a defence which might have applied in the circumstances of this 
matter, i.e. if Miss Rs car was being used not as permitted by the policy, A75 would likely 
apply. In that instance the insurer would not have had to settle for vehicle damage with the 
third-parties. So, Ive considered whether Miss Rs use of the vehicle in this matter would be 
seen as non-permitted for the purposes of RTA/A75 liability. 
An example of a non-permitted use of the vehicle which would have provided the insurer a 
defence to RTA liability would be where Miss R had permission under the policy to use her 
car socially, but not for business, and was driving to a business meeting when an incident 
occurred, then she would be driving her car outside of the permitted use of the policy. 
But certain provisions of the RTA provide certain exclusions/exceptions under which 
insurance policies will be ineffective for the purposes of RTA liability. One of those provisions 
makes it clear that exceptions or exclusions in insurance policies with regard to the physical 
or mental conditions of persons driving will be ineffective when determining whether or not 
an insurer is liable under the RTA. In the circumstances I am satisfied that an exclusion 
against losses arising from damage caused where the driver of a vehicle is intoxicated is 
likely to fall in the scope of the type of exclusion which is ineffective for the purposes of 
avoiding an insurers liability under the RTA. Which, unfortunately for Miss R, were exactly 
the circumstances under which she was driving when she had the accident.
So, when the incident subject of the claim and complaint occurred, Miss R was using her car 
as permitted by her policy given the provision of the RTA explained above. Because cover 
was available but liability was excluded due to the policy exception for drink driving (which 
would be ineffective for RTA liability purposes). Meaning that if the matter progressed to 
court, Advantage would have had no viable defence to not being the RTA insurer. The court, 
I think, would then likely have found Advantage to be the responsible insurer under the RTA, 
not under A75. Of course, Advantage did not let matters progress to court. Instead, it acted 
as though it would be the RTA insurer. I think that was fair and reasonable of it in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Vehicle damage
Advantage, even acting as though it were the RTA insurer, should still look to settle things 
fairly. It might not be reasonable for it to just pay sums put to it. So Ive looked at the damage 
claims which came through from the third-parties and the settlements it made. It paid 
£3,653.87 to the first third-party (TP1), £4,483 plus a £60 engineers fee to TP2 and 
£4,474.42 to TP3. 
I note Advantage received an engineers report for TP2s claim. I think that was likely to 
support that insurers settlement for that car on a total loss basis  this is something usually 
(but not always) determined by an engineer. I think Advantage settling for those sums given 
an engineers report had been received, was fair and reasonable.
It seems that Advantage did not assess any evidence of the loss claimed for TP1 and TP3. 
Rather Advantage took an overview that due to the overall claim position, it couldnt 
reasonably challenge any amounts claimed. Im not persuaded that is a generally 
reasonable position for Advantage to have taken. In short Advantage should have been 
thinking about what a court might find it liable for if things went that far. And a court would likely assess the damage and repair costs presented. For example, was the damage claimed 
for consistent with the accident which occurred and, if so, was the cost for repair of that 
damage reasonable. Having undertaken such an exercise, Id then expect Advantage to 
have put to the other parties any concerns it had about their claims. Just because Miss R 
was at fault wouldnt mean another insurer couldnt be persuaded that the costs they were 
looking to recover from Advantage were unfair or unreasonable. To treat Miss R fairly and 
reasonably Advantage should have been completing this type of assessment and, 
potentially, negotiating any settlement proposal. I dont think it did that here. 
 
However, whilst I think Advantage failed Miss R in this respect, I could only reasonably 
prevent it from recovering sums from her if I could be satisfied it was most likely it could have 
successfully negotiated down the claim costs. Im not satisfied that is most likely the case 
here. The repair sums for TP1 and TP3 are relatively low. I think if damage was included 
which was clearly not claim related, such that the other insurer could have been persuaded 
to reduce the sum it was asking Advantage to pay, the overall repair sum would likely have 
been much higher. So despite Advantage not following what Id expect to be a reasonable 
assessment process for those claims, I think it most likely fairly settled with TP1 and TP3 for 
the sums requested. And whilst Ive noted this failure in its process, that wasnt something 
Miss R was aware of, so she wasnt caused distress and inconvenience. 
I think Advantage fairly settled the above claims. Its policy allows it to recover costs from 
Miss R in a situation like this; where any general exception to cover applies, reasonably 
requiring it to settle the claim as if the RTA applied. Which means, with regret for the upset 
I know this will cause Miss R, I think Advantage can fairly and reasonably expect her to 
repay it £12,671.29.
Credit Hire Costs
I said provisionally: 
If a car owner is not a fault for an accident it might be reasonable to think they should not 
suffer any inconvenience as a result, such as being without a car. So, quite often, drivers 
who are not a fault for an accident are placed in credit hire cars to avoid them suffering 
inconvenience. But when/if matters progress to court, the courts do not necessarily view that 
all non-fault drivers should automatically be placed into credit hire. Generally the courts will 
expect that this is done fairly  that those who could afford and are able to arrange their own 
replacement transport, or have access to another car, are not placed into expensive credit 
hire arrangements. I cant see that here Advantage made any enquiries in this respect 
before settling the hire costs presented to it by the other parties. 
I also havent seen whether Advantage gave any thought to the daily rates behind the 
periods and sums requested. Thats important because the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) introduced the General Terms of Agreement (GTA), which set agreed service 
standards and charges for the credit hire industry on an opt-in basis, including maximum 
daily rates for different vehicle groups. The costs depend on the type, specification, and 
value of the hire car. Nor have I seen that Advantage gave any thought to whether the costs 
charged included things which I think Advantage would usually not wish to be liable for such 
as collision damage waiver.
Ive also looked at the specific hire periods in question. The first third-party owner (TP1) was 
paid £2,501.84 for credit hire for a period 9 March 2020 until 5 May 2020. TP2, £3,496.28, 
for the period 7 March 2020 until 7 April 2020. TP3, £506.14 for the period 9 March 2020 to 
13 March 2020. I see no issue with the periods for TP2 and TP3. In fact the period for TP3 
was really quite short given the car needed some £4,500 worth of repairs. For TP2 IT was a 
little longer  but that car was deemed a total loss. Advantage received the engineers report 
for that on 18 March 2020, issuing a settlement cheque shortly thereafter. I understand it then allowed a period of ten working days for the cheque to clear and a week for the hire car 
to be returned. I think that period was reasonable overall. 
I do however have concerns about the period of hire for TP1. I dont see any reasoning from 
Advantage why it felt paying hire through to 5 May 2020 (58 days in total) was reasonable. 
That is a long time after the accident. And I note that the third-party insurer in that case took 
an unreasonably long time to tell Advantage what the vehicle damage costs were. Whilst 
Advantage didnt know in the early months of the claim what the vehicle damage cost for 
TP1 was, I think it could have looked to make a goodwill payment regarding TP1 to 
encourage the hire agreement to end because it must have realised that expenses in this 
respect were adding up. Any payment made could then have been off-set against the total 
costs for hire once they were known. And Advantage could have done more to chase and try 
to ensure repairs for TP1 were progressing reasonably such as to limit the necessary hire 
period. I dont see it did that either. I bear in mind that the repair costs for TP1 were less than 
those for TP3, whereas TP3s hire period was considerably shorter. I dont think Advantage 
should have just accepted this period, with its related costs, without challenge. Im going to 
say that the period over which Advantage can reasonably look to claim back hire costs for 
TP1 from Miss R is reduced from two months to the period from 9 March to 9 April (32 days 
in total). That gives a reduced rate of £1,389.33 for hire costs for TP1.
But, as I said above, I think there are other enquiries Advantage could and should have 
made before agreeing to meet the costs that it did. I think its likely that if some challenge 
had been made, some of the costs would have been reduced. I cant say that for sure. Or 
know by how much, or in respect of what. But I think its reasonable to think that a saving of 
around 10% could have been achieved. The hire sums of £1,389.33, £3,496.28 and £506.14 
present a total of £5,391.75, ten percent of which is £539.17.
I note Advantage has replied explaining that it paid the sums in line with a service agreement 
it has with the hire company. I can understand an insurer entering an agreement like this  it 
likely comes with preferential rates keeping the cost of hire low. Which can only be to the 
advantage of policyholders. But I come back to what Ive explained in my findings so far  
Advantage can reasonably act as though it were the RTA insurer, which happens when a 
court judgment is handed down. So, to treat Miss R fairly, Advantage shouldve only been 
settling in line with what a court might be expected to award. Id expect it to take a fair and 
reasonable approach when thinking about the quantum of any such award. I explained 
provisionally what I thought reasonable costs would likely be. I remain of that view. 
Upon review though, I have noted a typing error in my provisional findings which has caused 
an error in the final figures I applied. Above the figure £1,389.33 should have read 
£1,380.33. The corrected reduced rate of hire is £1,380.33, meaning Advantage cant 
reasonably ask Miss R to repay it £1,121.51 of the £2,501.84 it had asked for. Applying that 
corrected figure to the further 10% calculation I set out, gives an initial total of £5,382.75, 
10% of which is £538.28. Which means of the total credit hire cost of £6,504.26 which 
Advantage paid, it can only reasonably seek recovery from Miss R of £4,844.47 (the above 
total less £1,121.51 and £538.28).  
Summary of recovery
Miss R has said that she would like any compensation award to be deducted from the sum 
she is found to owe Advantage. Im currently intending to award £250. And Ive said that the 
maximum credit hire costs Advantage can recover from Miss R is £4,844.47. Deducting 
£250 from that sum is £4,594.47. But I then, as explained, need to add on the vehicle 
damage costs of £12,671.29. Which gives a final total Advantage can reasonably ask Miss R 
to repay it of £17,265.76.Advantage paid out its costs over a two-year period. And only then asked Miss R to repay it. 
I think its only fair that it gives Miss R at least that time in which to repay it. But Id also 
expect Advantage to take into account Miss Rs personal and financial situation to agree a 
fair payment arrangement for reimbursement of these funds.
I absolutely understand how devastating my amended findings set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 October 2023 are for Miss R, and for Miss E as her representative and 
mother. I appreciate that my previous outcome from July 2023 had offered Miss R some 
solace in that had that view remained, and become final, she would only have owed 
Advantage a fraction of the costs it had been asking her for. That was based on reasoning 
I had given about the RTA and A75. This argument hadnt been raised or considered before. 
When initial findings like that are issued  where a new point/reasoning is relied upon to 
reach the complaint outcome  our process allows both parties the chance to respond. On 
this occasion, as my 11 October 2023 decision explained, I found that Advantages 
response, objecting to what Id said about the RTA and A75, was persuasive. I couldnt 
ignore the legal argument it had raised  to do so and move to a final decision on the basis 
of my initial findings would have created an unsafe as well as unfair and unreasonable 
decision. So I needed to review the complaint afresh and issue a second provisional 
decision, which resulted in the findings and the change of outcome set out above.
That provisional decision dated 11 October 2023 did explain that I still felt Advantage had 
mistreated Miss R. My intended compensation award was reduced though because I no 
longer felt Advantage had failed Miss R by dealing with the claims on the policy as though 
the RTA, as opposed to A75, had applied. My view remained, and still does, that Advantage 
could and should have done more between March 2020 and June 2022, when it suddenly 
began asking Miss E to repay significant sums of money, to manage her expectations.  
I cant offer advice about Miss Rs financial situation, or what she should do now that her 
complaint about Advantage asking her to repay its outlay has been considered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, to the point of my issuing a final decision. Miss R felt 
Advantage couldnt fairly and reasonably ask her to repay to it its £19,175.55 of outlay. Ive 
considered that and, as well as finding there was some poor service with £250 
compensation being due, Ive found that Advantage can fairly and reasonably seek 
repayment from Miss R of £17,265.76. Ive also directed Advantage to seek to agree with 
Miss R a reasonable, suitable payment arrangement of not less than two years. And I know 
our Investigator has indicated to Miss E that there are public services available which will 
offer advice and assistance on debt matters. 
I appreciate the difficulty of the situation Miss R is in, but that and Advantages failure to 
manage her expectations, dont give me cause to require Advantage to waive £6,000 to 
£10,000 of its outlay (given Miss Es current proposals to pay it £11,000 or £7,000). Although 
if Advantage becomes satisfied that Miss R has no likely prospect for being able to repay it 
the whole sum due, it might think it would make better sense to negotiate with her for 
settlement of a lower sum. But that would be a negotiation for Miss R /Miss E and Advantage 
to have now that Ive found it can fairly and reasonably ask her to repay its outlay of 
£17,265.76 (net of my £250 compensation award). 
Having considered Miss Es reply to my provisional decision dated 11 October 2023, my 
views on the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint have not changed. My 
provisional findings of that 11 October 2023 decision, along with my responses to concerns 
raised in reply by Miss E, are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Miss R, and Miss E, should be aware that a final decision is binding on the respondent 
business only if it is accepted by the complainant within the deadline set. The deadline can be seen at the end of this document, above my signature, and is included in the covering 
letter. If acceptance is communicated after the deadline, the business may choose to comply 
with the decision, but it wont have to. If Miss R should wish to challenge Advantage any 
further, perhaps by taking court action, she should be aware that this may not be possible if 
she has accepted my final decision. If Miss R is thinking about any further challenge, she 
might like to take advice before deciding whether or not to accept my final decision. I know 
Miss R may feel that she does not have any option available to her to challenge Advantage 
further  but, in any event, I need to let her know how things stand with my final decision 
being issued. To clarify, in respect of the Financial Ombudsman Service, this final decision 
marks the end of our complaint process. 
   
Putting things right
I require Advantage to:
Pay £250 in compensation to Miss R, by taking this amount off of the sum it is seeking 
her to repay  which Ive accounted for in my award below.
Amend its records to show that all it requires Miss R to pay it in reimbursement of its 
outlay, incurred in settling the third-party losses, including the deduction for the 
compensation mentioned above, is £17,265.76.
Contact Miss R, which Miss R should cooperate with, to agree a reasonable, suitable 
payment arrangement with her of not less than two years, to allow her to repay this sum.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman