DRN-1831772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) initially agreed then declined 
their claim for storm damage to their conservatory under their building insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S initially claimed for storm damage to their conservatory roof in March 2019. A 
couple of roof panels had blown off and RSA accepted and agreed to settle the claim for this 
and damage to the laminate floor. Mr S subsequently lifted the floor in the conservatory and 
found that a significant amount of water had pooled underneath the plywood sub floor 
causing the floor and the joists it sat on to rot. 
Mr S thought this was due to the storm in early March and claimed to RSA. RSA said there 
was no evidence this was so. Mr S sent photos to RSAs surveyor who reviewed these and 
spoke to Mr and Mrs Ss contractor. The surveyor concluded the original build of the 
conservatory was poor as the floor level was too low, causing seals at floor level to fail and 
allowing water ingress through the base of the conservatory causing pooling over time. RSA 
said that as theres no cover for this under the policy, Mr and Mrs Ss floor damage claim 
was declined.
RSA said Mr and Mrs Ss contractor agreed the original build of the conservatory wasn't 
good and the floor levels were too low. Mr and Mrs S complained about RSAs decision to 
decline their claim saying that damage was due to the storm that damaged the roof. They 
thought that the winds had slightly twisted the conservatory frame allowing water to enter 
under the door. Mr S said he noticed the smell of damp and the floor swelling and 
discovered the damage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as she thought it was fair for 
RSA to decline the claim. She said the photos show considerable damage and substantial 
rot, which happens gradually over a period of time, not in the four months between the 
storm, and discovery. She thought the storm only highlighted the damage, but wasnt the 
cause. She said Mr and Mrs Ss accidental damage cover didnt apply to their claim.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigator. They said the surveyor never visited their 
home after he lifted the flooring, he only saw Mr Ss photos. Mr S said RSA has photos from 
before the floor was lifted that show the surface damage. Mr S requested an ombudsman 
review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely to see if RSAs decisions about Mr and Mrs Ss claim for damage to their 
conservatory have been in accordance with their policy and to see if it has treated them 
fairly.
Mr S feels the storm which damaged their conservatory in March was also responsible for 
damage to the floor as he believes that the winds that took off the roof panels slightly twisted 
the frame and water came in under the door. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy covers them for storm damage and RSA agreed their initial claim for 
damage to their conservatory. But not the claim they made four months later for the 
damaged flooring. RSA has separate exclusion clauses in the policy that say it wont pay 
claims where damage is due to defective construction or design, anything which happens 
gradually, wear and tear, or rot.
Its an insurers responsibility to show that an exclusion within the policy properly applies to a 
claim and allows it to be declined. So, if RSA can show that any of these exclusion clauses 
apply to Mr and Mrs Ss claim it is entitled to decline it. In deciding if this is so, we place 
weight on any expert opinions that are available.
Mr S said RSA holds photos of the conservatory floor before it was lifted. RSA hasnt 
provided these to us but said it had enough information from the photos after the floor was 
lifted, and from the repair quote and speaking to Mr and Mrs Ss contractor to decline the 
claim.
RSAs surveyor said the floor level of the conservatory is too low, allowing water to enter 
under the door due to the seals being at ground level and failing. The surveyor said this 
would have been happening over quite some time. RSA said Mr and Mrs Ss contractor 
agreed with its surveyor that the original build of the conservatory wasn't good enough and 
the floor levels were too low. 
I understand how Mr S reached his opinion about the damage, but although the surveyor 
saw photos of the damaged floor rather than the floor itself, I think his view is supported by 
the photos of the damage and Mr and Mrs Ss contractor, and is persuasive. I agree with the 
investigator that the damage shown in the photos is unlikely to have occurred between the 
storm and discovery. It looks longer-lasting than that and as such I think it was reasonable of 
RSAs expert to find that it falls within both the defective design clause and rot exclusion 
clauses in the policy. These are as follows:
Defective construction or design
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from poor or 
faulty design, workmanship or materials.
Rot
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by rot whether or not this is 
caused directly or indirectly by any other cover included in this insurance.
Since damage that happens as a consequence of these exclusions isnt covered by the 
policy I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline Mr and Mrs Ss further claim for 
damage to their conservatory.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman