DRN-2885999
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plcs mobile app is misleading, and that he became
overdrawn when he relied on information showing in the app. He also complains about the
banks poor service when he raised his complaint.
What happened
Mr W made a debit card purchase that showed as a pending transaction on the TSB app.
The transaction amount was credited to Mr Ws available balance when the merchant didnt
claim the payment after five days. Mr W spent what he thought was the available balance.
But the merchant claimed the payment a few days later and Mr W became overdrawn. He
said TSBs app was misleading, and he was also unhappy with the way TSB handled the
matter when he contacted it to find out what was going on.
TSB didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it had processed the payment correctly, and that
overdraft charges had been applied in line with the account terms. It accepted that a call
from one of its staff to Mr W shouldve been made by different means, but it said appropriate
feedback had been given.
Mr W was unhappy with TSBs response so he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that
TSB had processed the payment correctly, and he wasnt minded to ask the bank to refund
it. The investigator accepted there may have been some upset for Mr W, but he wasnt
persuaded this was due to any error by TSB.
The investigator said Mr Ws complaint about TSBs service when he raised his complaint
was outside the jurisdiction of this service. So he couldnt consider the merits of this
complaint point.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators conclusions so the complaint was passed to
me for review.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 15 June 2021. I said I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint, but Id made findings on the service issue that the investigator had 
said we didnt have jurisdiction to consider. Details of my provisional findings are set out 
below:
When Mr W bought goods with his debit card the purchase amount was treated as a 
pending payment on his account. This meant it was deducted from Mr Ws available 
balance showing on TSBs app.
The merchant didnt claim the payment within five days, so the third party debit card 
provider released the earmarked payment and TSB returned the amount to Mr Ws 
available balance.
At this point Mr W had the goods but I thought it was reasonable for him to have 
known they hadnt been paid for. TSB had provided evidence to show that Mr W was 
regularly checking the app after the earmark was released and his available balance 
increased on 8 January 2021.
Payments through the account are governed by its terms and conditions. Paragraph 
10 of the terms and conditions says:
10. Overdrafts and available funds
10.1 An overdraft is where we lend you money when you would not otherwise have
available funds to make a payment out of your current account. The available funds
is the amount you can use to make payments out of your account each day. This will
be:
(a) the amount of credit balance that is available for you to use on your account
plus the amount of any Planned Overdraft (the overdraft limit); less
(b) the amount of card payments we have authorised but not yet taken from your
account; and
(c) any card transactions that have not yet come to us for authorisation.
I accepted that information showing on TSBs app may have given the impression 
that Mr Ws available balance was higher than it was once the earmark was released.
Mr W had the goods and I thought it was reasonable for him to have known they 
hadnt yet been paid for. I considered the app is a tool for helping customers manage 
their accounts, but it doesnt override the terms and conditions of the account.
The payment in question was a card payment that had been authorised but not yet 
taken from Mr Ws account. So I was satisfied that TSB correctly processed the 
payment once it was claimed by the merchant a few days later. On that basis, I didnt 
intend to ask TSB to refund the payment.
Mr W was also unhappy with the banks service when he complained about what 
happened. In particular, he said it wasnt acceptable that a bank staff member called 
him from her personal mobile phone.
Mr W considered this may be a breach of data protection regulations because
the staff member had his details on her phone, and probably her phone bill.
Our investigator didnt consider this service had jurisdiction to consider the merits of 
the complaint about TSBs service. But I was satisfied that we can consider it. Thats 
because I was satisfied that the service issue is linked to the main financial activity 
issue Mr W was complaining about, rather than specifically being about how TSB 
handled his complaint as such. On that basis, I was satisfied our rules allow us to 
consider Mr Ws concerns around when TSB called him.
Id told both parties that I intended to consider the merits of the service complaint, 
and neither party objected. 
Mr W was unhappy that when he complained about the issues arising from the appinformation, a bank staff member called him from her personal mobile phone to 
discuss his account. Mr W considered this may be a breach of data protection 
regulations.
It isnt ideal for a staff member to use personal equipment to discuss bank business, 
and I could understand why Mr W might be concerned about the security of his 
information. But its not for this service to decide whether there has been a breach of 
data protection regulations. That is a matter for the Information Commissioners 
office, and I said Mr W may want to consider raising his concerns there if he 
remained of the view that the issue needed further investigation.
I considered the impact of TSB doing this when deciding what was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances here. In doing so, I was mindful that the global 
pandemic meant standard working practices for bank staff have changed. While this 
didnt excuse the mistake that was made, TSB had explained that the call was a 
genuine, isolated error by the staff member and that feedback had been given.
Taking account of the overall circumstances, I didnt think that was unreasonable, as 
there was no suggestion that this had led to any problems beyond an understandable 
level of worry for Mr W. So I thought what TSB had done was a proportionate 
response to what happened. I wasnt persuaded that TSB needed to do anything else 
to put things right for Mr W in this respect.
Mr W didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said going overdrawn meant he struggled 
to pay his rent, and couldnt return to work as a result of the subsequent anxiety. He 
maintained that the apps information was misleading, and hed provided evidence to show 
that the details he was seeing were correct. He didnt consider it was reasonable to expect 
him to refer to the accounts terms and conditions.
TSB didnt make any further comments in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr W has said in response to my provisional findings. 
Im obviously sorry to hear about the health issues he is experiencing.
As I said in my provisional decision, I accept that information showing on TSBs app may 
have given the impression that Mr Ws available balance was higher than it was once the 
earmark was released. And in light of what shows on the app, I can see why Mr W might 
consider its unreasonable to refer to the accounts terms and conditions. 
But as I also said in my provisional decision, the app does not override the terms and 
conditions  which govern the operation of the account. And I remain satisfied that TSB 
correctly processed the payment in line with the account terms.
So while I realise this will be disappointing for Mr W, Im not minded to depart from the 
position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman