DRN-3682440
The complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refuses to refund a Faster Payment he made to an 
investment scammer.
What happened
The background is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what happened in great detail. 
I will however give an overview of key events.
Mr E was introduced to Extick.com (E), via an online advert which appeared to be endorsed 
by a well-known TV Series. He was sold an online trading opportunity in which E promised 
him high returns.
Between July 2018 to November 2018, Mr E funded his trading account with E using mainly 
his HSBC Mastercard credit card and his Visa debit card linked to his HSBC current account. 
His E account manager would use AnyDesk to remotely access Mr Es trading account to 
show him which trades were being placed and how he was profiting. Around October 2018, 
Mr E was asked to set up an account with Coinbase in order to purchase Bitcoin to fund his 
trading account with E. On 8 October 2018, Mr E made a Faster Payment of £8,000 from his 
HSBC current account to his account with Coinbase. He immediately converted his £sterling 
with Coinbase to Bitcoin and sent it to E as per their instructions.
E initially paid out returns on the investment, which prompted Mr E to invest further funds. 
But once Mr E stopped investing, his account manager invested all of his available funds (in 
a trading session held without him) and lost significant sums. When Mr E questioned why his 
account manager had done this, he was advised that he needed to pay more money onto his 
trading platform to recover his losses. Mr E realised that it was a scam.
Mr E only complained directly to HSBC about his disputed debit and credit card payments. 
Once Mr E referred his complaint to this office, he disputed the Faster Payment too. HSBC 
asked that we consider the matters separately, so Mr Es disputed debit and credit card 
payments are being considered as a separate complaint.
One of our Investigators felt that HSBC should have intervened in the Faster Payment and 
provided a warning to Mr E, which would have uncovered the scam. He suggested that
HSBC return the payment, together with interest. HSBC didnt agree and the complaint has 
been passed to me for determination.
I requested Mr Es Coinbase statement which he duly provided. I noted that he received two 
Bitcoin credits into his Coinbase account from E on 14 November 2019 and 19 December 
2019. He converted the Bitcoin credits to £sterling and received £734.77 and £1,551.21 
respectively (not including fees that were deducted for this conversion by Coinbase).
On 5 August 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr E for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because it was made by Mr E using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by 
HSBC.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto 
counter various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing 
of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive first considered whether E were indeed scammers.
Im satisfied E were scammers. I say this because E lured Mr E into an investment with them 
by using fake celebrity adverts. Ive also noted they lied to Mr E in email communication 
about being licensed in the UK and EU when they were not. They were not licensed or 
regulated anywhere - as far as Im reasonably aware - and a legitimate company would tend 
to comply with regulatory requirements. Ive further noted that when Mr E stopped investing, 
his account manager accessed his trading account (without Mr E being present) and opened 
and closed trading positions in order to generate substantial losses for him. They 
subsequently advised that if he were to deposit more money, they would recover his losses. 
These are patterns of behaviour Id expect to see from scammers. There are many online 
reviews of customers that share similar stories to that of Mr E and whilst this is hearsay 
evidence, it does help build an overall picture of E. Ive finally noted that E is no longer in 
operation and has not been for some time. Taking all of this together, Im persuaded that E 
were scammers.
My next consideration is whether there were fraud triggers that ought to have prompted 
intervention from HSBC.
I think the Faster Payment does stand out as sufficiently unusual when considering the 
normal operation of Mr Es account. Hes not made payments of this magnitude in the 12 
months leading up to it and it was to a new payee. I therefore think HSBC should have 
intervened.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr E would have explained what he was doing.
In such circumstances, whilst HSBC had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it should have asked Mr E some further questions to ascertain whether 
he was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought carefully about the sorts of questions HSBC shouldve asked, bearing in mind the features of investment scams at 
that time.
At the time Mr E fell victim to the scam, investment scams carried common features. For 
example, these included rates of return which were too good to be true, receiving the 
opportunity to invest via an unsolicited offer and cold call, with fraudsters often applying 
pressure to their victims to invest quickly and not allowing them to withdraw their funds. 
Cryptocurrency scams have become a common type of investment scam but given what 
regulators and law enforcement have said over the years, Id expect firms (like HSBC) to 
have more insight into the operation of scams involving crypto from 2019 (i.e. after Mr E 
made his Faster Payment).
Against this backdrop Id have expected HSBC to ask Mr E some questions to see if there 
were any signs that this was an investment scam (as described above). Had it done so, Im 
persuaded Mr E wouldve explained he was paying money to an account hed opened with 
Coinbase to purchase Bitcoin for an investment.
I think Mr E might have explained he was working with a trading company who hed been 
working with for some time and had been able to withdraw funds from his investment.
Upon receiving this information from Mr E, Im not persuaded HSBC wouldve been 
concerned that he was about to fall victim to an investment scam as there were no obvious 
indicators of what I consider to be well published investment scam typologies at the time. I 
accept the fact that crypto was unregulated and potentially indicated a high risk investment, 
which might not have been suitable for Mr E, but as Ive explained, it would not have been 
HSBCs role to provide him with financial advice.
Nevertheless, I think HSBC shouldve gone on to ask Mr E what checks hed done to 
establish the legitimacy of the investment.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr E wouldve said in response. Of course, I cant 
know for sure, so Ive thought about what I think is more likely than not to have happened, 
taking into account the particular circumstances of this case.
This was a sophisticated investment scam. I can see Mr E was sent many emails from E, 
one included confirmation that it was licensed in the UK and abroad. I dont see that Mr E 
checked this at the time to confirm whether or not this was true but I think he would have 
been satisfied E was licensed as theyd advised him of this months earlier.
So had HSBC asked him what checks hed done to verify the legitimacy of the company, 
taking into account Mr Es submissions and the evidence thats available, I think its more 
likely than not hed have disclosed that hed checked E on Companies House and received
confirmation that they were licensed in the UK and EU. I dont think Mr E wouldve got into 
the detail of what these documents said, and I dont think HSBC shouldve asked to see 
them in the circumstances of this case given there were no other indications of fraud. I think 
as a result its more likely than not HSBC wouldve been satisfied Mr E wasnt at risk of 
falling victim to an investment scam, Mr E wouldve felt comfortable continuing with the 
payment, and it wouldve been processed. This wouldve been a reasonable step for HSBC 
to take in the circumstances.
So overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded intervention from HSBC 
wouldve made a difference and prevented Mr Es loss in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
I also dont think HSBC had the option to recover the payment. First, Mr E didnt dispute the 
payment at the same time as he disputed his debit and credit card payments. Second, Ive seen that Mr E received Bitcoin in exchange for the Faster Payment and subsequently sent it 
on to the wallet of his choosing. Im satisfied there would have been no funds to recover as 
Mr Es Faster Payment was a legitimate payment and it was E, not Coinbase that scammed 
Mr E.
Given Ive found that its more likely than not intervention from HSBC wouldnt have made a 
difference and exposed the scam, it is unnecessary for me to go on to consider whether Mr 
E should share any responsibility for the loss he incurred.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC didnt reply to my provisional findings, so I assume it had nothing further to add. 
Mr E replied to my provisional findings confirming he had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties didnt have any further comments to add to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from what Ive said.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that despite my natural sympathies for Mr Es loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman