DRN-2437737
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos Card) sent a 
text message reminder without including the date when the payment was due. 
What happened
Mr K opted to use a Buy Now Pay Later plan (BNPL) provided by Argos Card when making 
a purchase. The BNPL was due to end on 17 November 2020. 
 
Argos Card sent Mr K a text message on 20 October 2020 to inform him the BNPL was 
ending soon. Mr K says the message caused him stress because it didnt state when the 
payment was due. He thought he had to pay but still had some time before the plan ended. 
He says he had always managed his account well.
 
He called and complained to Argos Card on 21 October 2020. Argos Card responded to the 
complaint the following day and explained the message was a courtesy reminder to advise 
the BNPL was due to expire on 17 November. They said that if Mr K already monitored his 
BNPL then he could disregard or delete the text message. 
Mr K remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. In the investigators view Argos Card 
hadnt done anything wrong by sending the text message. Mr K didnt agree and so the case 
has passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions and can see Argos Card 
explained that they may send alerts and correspondence by text message. Also, they said 
they would send a reminder in the month before the BNPL was due to end.
 
I have reviewed the text message sent to Mr K on 20 October 2020. The message said that 
it was important and informed Mr K that the BNPL was ending soon. The message explained 
he could make a payment and referred to the account statements. Im satisfied  this 
reminder was consistent with the terms and conditions.
I note the message didnt contain the actual date the BNPL was due to end. I understand 
why the end date wouldve been helpful for Mr K and that he feels strongly about this. But Mr 
K would have had account information and statements for the BNPL which he could have 
referred to. He also called Argos Card on 21 October 2020 and was promptly reassured that 
the plan was due to end on 17 November.
  
If the full balance of a BNPL plan isnt paid before the plan expires, then daily interest is 
charged on the remainder of the balance and backdated to when the plan started. As this 
can be costly, it was reasonable that Argos Card sent a text reminder to Mr K. 
I wouldnt necessarily expect a reminder to contain all the information about the BNPL. Im 
satisfied it was enough that it stated the plan was ending soon. This gave Mr K a reasonable 
opportunity to check his account and arrange payment. In their letter of 22 October 2020, 
Argos Card have also explained how Mr K can amend his notification settings if he didnt 
want to receive text messages. Overall, I dont find Argos Card have done anything wrong 
here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman