DRN-3683233
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S (the estate) complains that Santander UK Plc allowed a direct debit to 
be set up which wasnt authorised by Mrs S.
What happened
The estate says that from January 2019-October 2021, Mrs S was admitted to a care home. 
They say that upon her passing in October 2021, they gained access to Mrs Ss affairs 
including her medical and financial records. The estate says the authorisation to fund the 
care was not undertaken legally. The estate tried to request a Direct Debit Indemnity (DDI) 
for the payments made, but Santander did not action this as they said the request for a DDI 
didnt fit the criteria. The estate made a complaint to Santander.
Santander did not uphold the complaint. They said the responsibility to undertake due 
diligence when setting up a direct debit lies with the sender and not the bank. They said the 
DDI scheme allows payers to reclaim direct debits taken without authorisation. They said 
none of the reasons apply in this situation as the direct debit was set up in Mrs Ss name, 
with the correct account number prior to her passing away. The estate brought their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said in November 2019, Santander 
received a direct debit instruction from a council completed with Mrs Ss information. 
Following these instructions the direct debit was set up and took effect. She said as the 
agreement wasnt with Santander they dont get involved with the direct debit as they will 
only set this up or cancel it upon the instruction of the account holder. She said the Direct 
Debit Guarantee (DDG) isn't intended to deal with all contractual disputes between 
customers and originators. And it doesn't mean a customer will automatically get their 
money back simply by saying an error was made. Our investigator said if a business 
disputes the DDG, the bank will take the money back from the account and thats why 
Santander have to ensure the estate meets the DDG criteria.
The estate asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they said the DDG scheme allows payers to reclaim direct debits taken 
without authorisation and Mrs S did not authorise the set up of the direct debit as her son 
did, and he did not have the correct authorisation such as a Lasting Power of Attorney to do 
so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I wish to pass my condolences to the estate. Ive looked at the wording of the 
DDG. It states that The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in 
the rare event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a 
payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used 
to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
Ive considered what the estate has said about the direct debit being set up fraudulently as 
Mrs Ss son did not have the legal authorisation to set up a direct debit for Mrs S. If the 
estate want an outcome on the legalities of what happened, they will need to go to court. 
Here, I will be focusing on whether Santander shouldve refunded the direct debit premiums 
under the DDG. And Im satisfied that they did not make an error. I say this as in my opinion, 
this is a contract dispute between the estate and the council over how Mrs S was admitted to 
a care home. And its not in dispute that Mrs S was in a care home  which would incur 
costs. So I cant say that Santander did anything wrong here. Even if they did refund the 
premiums, the council have already said the direct debit was set up in order to collect 
monies owed by Mrs S for her care, so Im satisfied they would have rejected the claim 
under the DDG scheme and they wouldve started proceedings to reclaim the funds back 
from the estate.
Ive also read what the estate says about the payments to the care home not being properly 
authorised. But, Santander were aware that Mrs S was vulnerable and that her son was 
helping her with financial matters, even if there wasnt a Lasting Power of Attorney or any 
other official document outlining his ability to act on his late mothers behalf. So when 
Santander were asked to pay the direct debits here, they were faced with a choice of paying 
for a vulnerable persons care, or not. The direct debit was paid direct, and the council were 
involved too, which greatly lessened the risks of any financial harm to Mrs S here. In those 
circumstances I think Santander acted fairly and pragmatically by making these payments to 
assist with Mrs S receiving the care the home provided. So it follows that I dont require 
Santander to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman