DRN-3482435
The complaint
Miss O complains that Halifax General Insurance Services Limited (Halifax) has unfairly 
handled a claim made on her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
In 2018, Miss Os house was damaged following an escape of water. She made a claim on 
her policy with Halifax which was initially rejected. After a complaint to Halifax the claim was 
accepted and Miss O has needed to make further complaints during the lifetime of the claim. 
Halifax has responded with a number of final responses.
In September 2019 Miss O complained that her flooring claim had been declined and she 
also complained about a previous cash settlement for another claim. This was considered by 
Halifax under its complaint reference ending 1218.
Halifax agreed the flooring cost would now be covered but explained why it had initially 
declined this and how this was linked with a previous claim which was cash settled. This 
settlement amount included money for the floor to be replaced but Halifax couldnt see this 
had taken place. However, on review of the claim in 2018, the flooring cost was agreed to be 
covered. Halifax also said that a specialist would be appointed to review the current damage 
and agree what Halifax was willing to cover under the claim. Halifax also said that with the 
new claim, it wasnt prepared to make a cash settlement and it would instead be appointing 
it's own contractors to complete the works. But it explained how the cash settlement in 
2016/17 was reached for the previous claim. 
For the inconvenience experienced with this complaint, Halifax paid Miss O, £150.00.
In May 2020, Miss O complained to Halifax again. She was unhappy that items which she 
felt should have been included within her claim were being declined still. Specifically that a 
wall wasnt being repaired. 
Halifax replied under its complaint reference ending 1391 on 11 May 2020. It said it was 
sorry that it had made mistakes with the claim again after making an incorrect decision to 
decline part of it. It confirmed the specialist sent following the complaint made in September 
2019 had found evidence of water damage to the wall and agreed to cover this. It said it 
would work with its agent to organise the repair works and process for repairing the kitchen.
Halifax made a payment of £150.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Following this response, Miss O complained to Halifax again. She explained she was 
unhappy that the internal wall damage wasnt covered as part of her earlier claim in 2016. 
Halifax had failed to provide an update following the specialist visit to assess this in 2019. 
And she asked that Halifax now cash settle the 2018 claim.
Halifax responded under the same reference on 18 May 2020. It said it didnt think it needed 
to do anything else with either the 2016 or 2018 claim in relation to the damage to the wall. It 
said regardless of when this damage is registered, Miss O still needed to pay claim 
excesses for the two separate claim events. It asked that she pay the excess for the 2018 
claim so it could proceed with this. It said it didnt take any steps previously after the visit by 
its contractor as Miss O said she didnt wish to continue with the claim before, so it didnt 
think it had added a delay. But it said this claim could be cash settled if that was the 
preference of Miss O and that this could be arranged.
Miss O also complained that a delay had been added because the scheme of works 
proposed didnt include adequate provisions for matching set cover. Halifax responded to 
this with an extract of policy wording which said, in effect, that the policy didnt provide cover 
for matching sets. It would be liable for sourcing a suitable match for the damaged kitchen 
areas via its contractors. 
The claim progressed and details of the cash settlement and Miss O questioned what and 
wouldnt be included within the schedule or works. However, unhappy with the progress and 
confirmation on what was included, in February 2021 Miss O complained again.
Halifax said it had made the decision not to cash settle the claim and would offer to complete 
the repair works itself. It apologised in its final response under the complaint reference 
ending 6835 for previously saying this could be cash settled. It said that its decision provided 
in the final response with the reference ending 1218 remained and the interim messaging on 
the cash settlement was wrong. To apologise it made a payment of £150.00 to Miss O for 
the inconvenience. It also covered of a number of other points raised by Miss O.
Halifax said it had confirmed its position on matching sets under its complaint response 
reference ending 1319 and referred Miss O to this.
It didnt give a breakdown of the schedule of works but confirmed as  it would now be 
undertaking the repairs, it would complete all relevant work needed. And as it was 
completing the works, the cost to it would be inclusive of VAT. With the repairs, if it meant 
Miss O needed alternative accommodation this would be provided, as would storage if 
needed. It then referred to part of its response under ref ending 1218 where it explained the 
full breakdown of costs and hours isnt something it could share as its commercially 
sensitive.
Miss O brought her complaint to this service and complained about the length of time the 
claim had taken as well as the decision taken by Halifax to not settle the claim in cash or to 
provide cover for matching sets. Halifax said it didnt consent to us considering some 
elements of the complaint when it was first brought. It felt it had made its position on the 
cash settlement and matching sets clear in earlier final responses and Miss O hadnt brought 
these complaints to us within the time required for them to be considered. It said it would 
consider the time delay as the claim handling in general and responded on this point under 
the complaint.
Halifax said it felt some delays had been as a result of not providing a full schedule of works 
and made an offer of £250.00 to Miss O for the inconvenience of this.  Our investigator said that they agreed the complaint about matching sets had been brought 
to this service too late. But she didnt think Miss O had brought her complaint about the cash 
settlement too late. She explained that the final response letter which said this wouldnt be 
paid was superseded by the letter sent in May 2020 and with this one saying the cash 
settlement would now be made, there was no reason for Miss O to question this until the 
change of decision in February 2021. She brought her complaint to us in March 2021 and 
because of this, had done so in time. Halifax agreed to us considering this part of the 
complaint.
Our investigator then explained why she didnt think due consideration on the reasons for the 
cash settlement had been given toward Miss O and her sons health and it was fair that this 
was considered by Halifax. She felt with this in mind, it was fair to ask it to cash settle the 
claim.
Halifax agreed with the investigator and offered to cash settle Miss Os claim. It said it would 
provide a cash settlement for all areas except for the floor and this would be at the cost it 
would have cost Halifax. With the floor it would, on receipt of two quotes from Miss Os 
preferred contractors and once the floor has been replaced, make payment to the value of 
the invoice to Miss O. It made this stipulation as it felt the floor hadnt been replaced 
previously as agreed with the cash settlement and it wanted to indemnify itself against the 
repair being needed again. 
Miss O accepted the cash settlement and money offered for the delays  she wanted to get 
the claim progressed and Halifax to avoid further delay has organised payment. But Miss O 
still feels that her kitchen and the damage to this should be considered with matching sets 
cover being applied. She disputes this was brought too late and has asked that this point be  
considered by an ombudsman. Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the outcome reached by our investigator. As Miss O 
has already accepted the cash settlement but said she feels pressured into accepting this 
with the caveat of the flooring being paid after the work is completed. And she also hasnt 
made it expressly clear that she accepts the offer of £250.00 for the delays on this case. So 
Ill cover this in my decision ahead of explaining why I feel we cannot consider the matching 
sets complaint point.
Miss O has explained how she feels the cash settlement should have always been offered 
because of her and her sons disabilities. Our investigator agreed and explained to Halifax 
that being able to have familiar people in Miss Os house has a big impact on her and her 
son. Halifax has now agreed to cash settle the claim and this is based, significantly, on it 
considering Miss O and her sons conditions. Halifax is entitled to settle claims as it sees fit 
and it has explained this with extracts provided in some of the final responses to Miss O. But 
it is important it treats customers fairly and thinks about the impact of the settlement 
provided. I think Halifax has done this and acted fairly when reconsidering the cash 
settlement on this basis for Miss O.  
I know Miss O feels the requirements of the cash settlement are unfair and she feels forced 
to accept these. She is unhappy that she wont be paid directly for the floor until this work is 
completed. I dont think Halifax has been unreasonable when asking for Miss O to provide 
the quotes for her chosen tradesman to repair her floor, or to withhold the payment for this until it is repaired. The claim is to cover the damage to the floor because of the escape of 
water and I think Halifax has acted fairly when it has allowed Miss O to organise trades 
people who she and her son might be more familiar with. And Halifax will cover the whole 
cost of this, even if the repair costs more than it might have cost itself. So overall I think its 
made a fair offer with the cash settlement.
I also think the offer made by Halifax for the delays caused with the claim handling are fair. I 
dont think Halifax added any significant delay to the claim. The longest period of inactivity 
appeared to come when work couldnt take place because of the pandemic. After this was a 
period of no movement when Halifax believed that Miss O didnt wish to continue with the 
claim. But when this was clarified there appeared to be regular engagement on what was 
needed to move things forward, including then need for Miss O to pay the excess for the 
claim to be progressed. So overall, despite the event taking place sometime ago now, I think 
the offer of £250.00 for delays caused by Halifax is fair.
I know Miss O feels strongly that this service should be able to consider her complaint about 
whether Halifax is going to apply matching sets within its cash settlement. She thinks this 
cover should be there but Halifax said it addressed this in its final response in May 2020.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded our service nor I, can consider this part of 
Miss Os complaint.
We cannot consider every complaint that is brought to our service. The Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) sets out rules which include which complaints we can and cant look into. 
We are bound by these rules called the Dispute Resolutions rules (DISP) rules. They can 
be found in the FCA Handbook.
The relevant time limits here are set under DISP 2.8.2. This states this service cannot 
consider a complaint if the complainant refers the complaint:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication;
Halifax addressed the cover Miss O has with her policy in its final response letter dated 18 
May 2020. In this it explained what it thought about matching sets and that Miss O could 
bring her complaint to this service if she remained unhappy. But shed need to do this within 
six months of the date of the letter. If she didnt, Halifax wouldnt consent to us considering 
the complaint. Miss O brought her complaint to this service on 8 March 2021. Because of 
this she brought her complaint too late.
The rules state that a complaint can be considered if it was brought late because of an 
exceptional circumstance. Miss O hasnt provided any reasoning that I consider to be an 
exceptional circumstance. So in the absence of this, I cant agree that this service is able to 
consider her complaint point about matching sets.
Putting things right
Halifax has already agreed to put things right as directed by our investigator. But for clarity if 
it hasnt already done so, it will now need to do the following:
- Cash settle Miss Os claim for all damage relating to the claim made in 2018.
- On receipt of the invoice provided by Miss O for the completed works to the floor, 
cover the cost of the replacement flooring.- pay Miss O £250.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused with the delays 
added to the claim process. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold, in part, Miss Os complaint against Halifax 
General Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman