DRN-3879013
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how she was treated by AllClear Insurance Services in relation to her 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs W contacted AllClear in July to obtain a quote for an upcoming trip. Initially she was 
asked if she was suffering from a terminal illness. Mrs W confirmed that she was and was 
asked how long her terminal prognosis was from the date of the return from her trip. Mrs W 
confirmed it could be two years, or four years  she couldnt be sure. 
Later on in the call, during the medical declaration, Mrs W told AllClear she had cancer. 
They asked when her last treatment had been, and she said she just takes tablets  not 
treatment. She also confirmed she had to go to hospital one day a week, but this was seven 
years ago. 
AllClear recorded that her last treatment was 5-10 years ago. So due to the length of time 
since her last treatment took place, their system recognised Mrs Ws condition as being
cured. They asked Mrs W to confirm this, but she explained that there isnt a cure for her 
condition. AllClear didnt question this any further.
After completing the medical questionnaire, Mrs W said she actually thought her tablets were 
treatment for her condition. But AllClear didnt revisit their previous questions about cancer. 
AllClear went on to quote a premium for Mrs Ws policy, incorrectly based on a terminal 
prognosis of more than six months from the return date of her trip, and the last treatment for 
her condition being between 5-10 years ago. Mrs W realised when receiving her policy 
documents that her medical declaration was incorrect. She contacted AllClear to question 
why it stated her condition was cured. 
AllClear attempted to amend her policy, but Ms W was unable to answer how long her 
terminal prognosis was from the date of return from her trip. She said this was because a 
terminal prognosis was different for everybody. AllClear said she would need to provide 
evidence of her expected prognosis to continue cover on the policy - and that it must be 
more than 6 months from the return date of her trip. 
Mrs W contacted AllClear again and provided a letter from her consultant which explained 
her condition was stable, well managed and she was fit to travel. But the consultant was 
unable to provide a terminal prognosis.  AllClear said that this wasn't enough. As Mrs W 
couldnt provide B with the evidence it needed to complete the underwriting of the policy, it 
cancelled the policy and provided her with a refund of premiums. Ms W didnt want to be 
without cover, so she took out a policy with another provider.
Mrs W then provided an updated letter from her consultant which explained that she was 
likely to live 6 months. Upon receipt of this letter AllClear offered a reinstatement of the 
policy. But Mrs W declined as this was only a few days before her travel date and shed 
already taken out alternative cover.  
Mrs W asked AllClear to pay the £1,000 difference she had to pay in higher premiums with a 
different provider. They said she had made the decision herself to purchase a new travel 
policy, so they arent responsible for the increase in premium that she agreed to pay. 
Mrs W referred a complaint to this service. AllClear didnt dispute that Ms W had made them 
aware of her terminal diagnosis and that shed received treatment in the past. However, they 
had relied on the response provided to the medical questionnaire section of the sales call. 
So they didnt accept liability for the differing information Mrs W provided at other stages of 
the call. 
They also confirmed that if they had identified that the terminal prognosis was unknown, they 
wouldnt have been able to provide any quotation for cover to her. But they made an offer of 
£150 for any inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
she didnt think it was fair to ask AllClear to pay for the costs of Mrs Ws new policy. Mrs W 
didnt agree. She said the mistake on her policy had been made by AllClear and theyd 
admitted their staff needed better training. 
So the case was passed to me for a decision. I reviewed everything and contacted both 
parties to explain my provisional decision. In summary I said: 
AllClear have agreed that more questioning from them was required around Mrs Ws
terminal illness, and that didnt happen. They have apologised for the inconvenience and
confirmed training has been given to prevent this error happening in future. But I didnt think 
that went far enough to put things right here. 
AllClear has now made a £150 offer of compensation for the inconvenience to Mrs W,
but I didnt think that fairly reflects the full distress and inconvenience caused. I explained I 
intended to recommend AllClear pay £300 compensation in total. This is based on
the lack of relevant questioning when the policy was taken out - which in turn gave Mrs W
the raised expectation that she had secured cover for the quoted amount, and then
resulted in disappointment when the policy had to be cancelled. I also highlighted that I was 
mindful Mrs W had received documentation labelling her terminal illness as cured, which 
must have been distressing for her to read.
But I didnt think there are grounds to require AllClear to cover the cost of Mrs W new 
premium. This is because even if they had asked Mrs W the relevant questions in relation to 
her terminal illness before providing their initial quote, they still would have required Mrs W 
to produce medical evidence of her prognosis after her trip return date before proceeding 
which at the time she was unable to do. So, although I understand why, as Mrs Ws trip drew 
closer, she thought it was sensible to take alternative cover, that isnt something that 
resulted from what AllClear got wrong. So I didnt think it was responsible for the increased 
premium Mrs W had to pay.
Responses to my provisional decision 
AllClear accepted my recommendation of increased compensation and said they had no 
further comment. 
Mrs W disagreed. In summary she said AllClear had initially said theyd received everything 
they wanted to proceed with the policy. But then they required more information which 
required her to get in touch with the hospital and the doctor. And they offered to reinstate the 
policy because of their error.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further submissions from Mrs W. However, theyve not changed 
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Its not in dispute that more questioning from AllClear was required around Mrs Ws terminal 
illness before the quote was provided, and that didnt happen. They have apologised and 
provided training to staff to prevent this happening in future. But it doesnt automatically 
follow that they should then pay for the separate policy Mrs W took out. 
Ive explained that I didnt think it was reasonable for AllClear to cover this cost because 
even if they had asked Mrs W the relevant questions before providing their initial quote, she 
still would have needed to provide the medical evidence they later requested. 
I appreciate that Mrs Ws trip was growing closer, so she decided to take out an alternative 
policy. But that isnt something that resulted from what AllClear got wrong because even if 
the call had gone as it should, Mrs W wouldnt have been provided with cover from AllClear 
at that stage without the required medical evidence. So she still would have had to gone 
through the inconvenience of obtaining it through the channels she went down. Or obtained 
cover elsewhere. 
So it wouldnt be fair to hold AllClear responsible for the increased premium Mrs W had to 
pay.
AllClear did offer to reinstate Mrs Ws policy, which I think was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But again, it doesnt automatically follow that they should cover the cost of 
the policy Mrs W took out instead. For the reasons explained above, I dont think its fair for 
AllClear to cover that cost. 
I know Mrs W remains unhappy with my recommendation to increase her compensation to 
£300 in total. But I think that reasonably compensates Mrs W for her raised expectation of 
cover that then turned to disappointment when it had to be cancelled.  
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs W wanted, but I hope she understands why there isnt 
anything more I can reasonably ask AllClear to do in the circumstances.
Putting things right 
AllClear Insurance Services Ltd need to put things right by:
Paying a total of £300 compensation to Mrs W for the raised expectation they 
caused, which then turned to disappointment when her policy was cancelled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint against AllClear Insurance Services 
Ltd and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman