DRN-2116914
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy about the sale of their mortgage endowment policy which 
Countrywide Assured Plc is responsible for. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
But, for ease, I should mention that Mrs C took out the mortgage endowment policy in 1995, 
with Mr C being added in 2000. A review was carried out in 2003 and the policy was 
surrendered in 2005.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs C has told us that she wouldnt have had an appetite for risk at the time of 
purchasing the policy. I can see that in 1995  at the time of the sale  a financial 
planning document was completed. This asked What is your attitude to risk? Are you 
a cautious or speculative investor? And on a scale of 1 (very cautious) to 5 
(speculative), 4 has been ticked. This document was signed by Mrs C. Because of 
this, though I recognise Mrs C says she wouldve been cautious at the time, I dont 
think it unreasonable to have proceeded on the basis that she was willing to take on 
a degree of risk. 
Mrs C said that theres nothing from the paperwork to suggest that she wouldve 
chosen a high-risk option. As mentioned above, I can see that she selected 4 out of 5 
in terms of her risk attitude. But, in any event, the type of mortgage endowment 
Mrs C took out wasnt high-risk, and was suitable for the stated risk attitude.
Mrs C said that she wasnt given other options for repaying the mortgage. I dont 
know what was said during the meeting  though I can see the form indicates a 
variety of mortgage options were discussed. But, regardless, the advisor was 
required to make a suitable recommendation. And, as mentioned above, the advice 
to take this doesnt seem unsuitable based on the information available.
I think its somewhat relevant to take into account what happened in the review 
meeting that took place in March 2003. By this time, Mr C had been added to the 
policy. In the suitability statement, that was said to be sent after the review, it says 
We discussed the different types of mortgage repayment method, the level of 
guarantee, and risks associated with each method. We also discussed the 
Endowment, Pension and ISA methods of repaying an Interest Only mortgage. So I 
think that Mr and Mrs C wouldve had sufficient opportunity to raise this with 
Countrywide had this not been the case. By continuing with the mortgage 
endowment policy, Im persuaded that it continued to be in line with their attitude to 
risk. This was revisited in this review and the chosen option included statements 
such as You understand that repaying the mortgage is entirely dependent on future 
investment returns. 
Im persuaded that Countrywide did enough to make Mr and Mrs C aware that there 
was an element of risk involved in the mortgage endowment policy, and that there 
could be a shortfall. Documentation from the original sale makes it clear that the 
investment amounts werent guaranteed and, following the review, the statement 
provided said The savings vehicle does not guarantee to provide enough to pay off 
the mortgage This matches your risk profile. 
While I appreciate the fund may not have done as well as they hoped it would, Ive 
considered what happened at the time of the original sale, as well as in the 2003 review. 
And, on balance, the evidence suggests that Mrs C, and then Mr and Mrs C were willing to 
accept an element of risk which seems to be in line with the product they were sold. And Im 
satisfied they were given fair warning that the returns werent guaranteed. So I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman