DRN-1424075
The complaint
Miss B complains Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) acted unfairly by quoting for a new loan (a 
consolidation of existing loans) at an inflated APR rate compared to her existing loans. 
What happened
Miss B is self-employed. She took out two separate loans for £25,000 each in 2017 over five 
years. The APR rates that applied were 7.4% and 6.4%. By the end of the five-year term, 
Miss B expected to pay about £9,000 in interest between both loans. Miss B made regular 
payments towards the loans and by 2019 she had an outstanding balance of about £30,000 
in total. 
Miss Bs circumstances changed and her income reduced. She asked Lloyds if she could 
borrow an additional £20,000 and, ideally, keep the same 5-year repayment term. Miss B 
said that this was with the aim of bringing down her monthly payments, which were about 
£1,000 a month for both. Miss B also said she intended to extend her house with the 
additional funds, so that she could let part of it out and generate rental income. She felt that 
this would help her overall financial position and would mean she was more able to meet her 
financial commitments. Miss B said that Lloyds didnt know about her reduced self-employed 
income until later on.
Lloyds gave Miss B a quote. According to Miss B, it said in order to bring the monthly 
payment down, shed be better considering a loan over seven years - not five. And to 
consolidate her loans and add additional borrowing, shed have to pay around £28,000 
interest on top of the £50,000 borrowed (the remaining £30,000 from the first loans and the 
extra £20,000 that Miss B wanted to borrow on top). Miss B says she was shocked at Lloyds 
response, so she complained.
Lloyds responded to Miss Bs complaint in August 2019. Whilst it didnt uphold the complaint, 
it recognised it didnt answer it as quickly as it could have done and gave Miss B £75 
compensation. Lloyds said it was satisfied its quote was correct. It explained it uses the data 
available such as credit history; the customers ability to pay and the length of time at their 
address (amongst other things) to determine whether a customer is eligible for lending and 
the interest rate that can be offered. Lloyds said Miss B wasnt actually eligible for further 
lending at that time (and it couldnt say if shed definitely been eligible when she made her 
loan application) - although I understand her eligibility status changed later on. Lloyds invited 
Miss B to get in touch if she wanted to discuss options or the complaint response. It also told 
her she could contact our service if she wasnt happy with the response.  
Miss B complained to us shortly after and asked us to look into her complaint. Amongst other 
things, she said she couldnt understand why the interest quoted on the new loan was so 
high. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Lloyds acted reasonably. 
The investigator was satisfied the cost of borrowing based on the APR Lloyds quoted 
(around 15%) appeared correct. The investigator also said its for Lloyds to set its APR, as thats a commercial decision, taking account of the level of risk it felt was present - including 
Miss B asking to borrow more money before the original loans were paid off. 
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators assessment. She felt she should be less of a risk 
not more particularly because she now owns a house that she didnt own when she took out 
the earlier loans. As Miss B isnt happy with the investigators view, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss Bs financial position changed. I appreciate her point when she said 
that asking to borrow more money from Lloyds was with the aim of improving her overall 
financial position. Thats because she expected to generate rental income once her house 
was extended. So, for that reason amongst others, she thought shed be less of a risk not 
more. And it does help to explain to some extent why Miss B was shocked to receive Lloyds 
quote, which was that shed have to pay around £28,000 interest on a seven-year loan of 
£50,000.
It seems Miss B expected the terms upon which Lloyds offered further borrowing to at least 
be similar to those it applied before. I say that because she made the direct comparison 
between the interest added to her 2017 loans to that Lloyds quoted in 2019. And that, in 
part, seems to have led Miss B to believe the amount quoted in 2019 was unrealistic and 
unfair. 
But I dont think Miss B necessarily made the right comparison. Firstly, Miss B had taken out 
two five-year loans, both of which were due to end in 2022. And those loans were agreed 
based on a set of criteria at the point of application, including the likely risk of the loans being 
repaid. But that doesnt mean Lloyds should have used exactly the same lending criteria in 
2019 - which may have changed in the intervening period. 
I should say that my role here is not to set Lloyds lending criteria, including the amount that 
it should charge when offering credit. Theyre commercial decisions that a bank is entitled to 
take. So, its not for me to say if Lloyds should have given Miss B a quote on different and 
better terms. 
But I can say whether Lloyds appears to have acted fairly when Miss B asked to borrow 
more money, particularly given her reasons for wanting to do so. As well as eventually 
generating rental income, another priority was for Miss B to reduce her monthly payments in 
the short-term. And I can see why shed want to do that, given the reduction in her income. 
When considering whether to offer a customer a loan, a bank will take account of a number 
of different factors in their assessment of risk. Ive seen no evidence Lloyds treated Miss B 
unfairly in its calculation and its clear it thought about Miss Bs priority to reduce her monthly 
payment. I say that because Lloyds based its calculation on an overall seven-year 
repayment period rather than the five-year loan Miss B originally asked for. And I think that 
demonstrates Lloyds knew reducing her monthly payment was a priority, and that was likely 
to be achieved by extending the repayment term of the loan. 
Lloyds said that whenever a customer wants to consolidate existing loans and borrow 
additional funds, its treated as a new loan application. And I dont think that seems 
unreasonable. I say that because Lloyds would need to consider the likely risks afresh 
against any lending criteria in place at the time. But it seems particularly reasonable in Miss Bs case. Had the existing loans not been 
consolidated and Lloyds agreed to lend Miss B the extra £20,000 she wanted, then shed 
have had three separate loans running at the same time. I think thats unlikely to have 
reduced her monthly payments as she hoped. And I think theres potentially greater risk of 
her not being able to keep up with all three repayments. So, on balance, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to take the approach that it did.  
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds did enough to explain the calculation. And, on 
balance, Im satisfied it did. I should say its unlikely a bank will be able to explain exactly 
how the interest rate is calculated because it will usually involve a number of system 
calculations that take account of different risk factors. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
Lloyds took account of the wrong information when processing Miss Bs application. And Im 
also satisfied that in its complaint response, it explained the range of information it takes into 
account when assessing risk. So, I think its response overall was reasonable.
I appreciate the point Miss B made though that she considered herself less of a risk-
not more because she owned a house that she didnt own when she first took out the loans. 
As I said, lenders look at a range of information when considering risk. And Lloyds is allowed 
to decide its lending criteria and the level of risk that its customers pose. I havent seen any 
evidence that Lloyds treated Miss B unfairly.
I then thought about whether Lloyds could have added the additional amount that Miss B 
wanted to borrow onto one of her existing loans and extend the term of that. Lloyds said it 
wasnt able to do that because each of Miss B existing loans was a fixed-term agreement, so 
there was no option to extend the term. Again, I dont think its response seems 
unreasonable, particularly as her repayments had been calculated on the basis shed be 
paying back the amount borrowed over five years. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds appears to have considered Miss Bs loan application fairly. 
And, Im also satisfied it didnt just leave things there when Miss B said she wasnt happy 
with its quote and that she had financial pressures. Ive seen it was willing to discuss a short-
term repayment plan to support Miss B with her financial difficulties. And whilst that was an 
option Miss B didnt want to pursue, I think Lloyds acted fairly and sympathetically by 
suggesting that as a short-term solution to her problems. 
For the reasons Ive outlined, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate Miss B might be 
unhappy with my decision, but I hope she understands the reasons for it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman