DRN-3775786
The complaint
Mr M complains about a delay in Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) sourcing a spare part to 
repair his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a car accident and Aviva arranged for the repairs. Because of delays in 
obtaining replacement parts the repairs are yet to be completed. Aviva says the delay is 
down is down to the manufacturer and it has done what it can to expedite matters. But it 
says that unfortunately there is nothing more it can do.   
Mr M says he has located a supplier that can provide the part needed to repair his car. He 
says he provided this information to Aviva, but this was dismissed. 
In its complaint response Aviva says the part Mr M located may not be like for like, not 
manufacturer approved, could be second hand or potentially one that was ordered but not 
used. It says Mr M can contact its agent dealing with the repairs to advise it of the exact 
details of the part for it to look into. But it says its agent may have already incurred a cost for 
the part it is waiting for. 
Mr M says the part he has found is genuine, brand new, and with a manufacturers warranty. 
He says Aviva has repeatedly delayed the repairs because of the missing part, but he was 
able to source this within minutes. Because he remained dissatisfied Mr M referred his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says Aviva isnt 
responsible for the global delays impacting on the availability of car parts. She says the part 
Mr M has found doesnt come with a warranty when distributed outside of the U.S., Puerto 
Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
Our investigator didnt think compensation was appropriate due to the situation being outside 
of Avivas control. She says a courtesy car has been provided in line with the policy terms 
and its reasonable for premiums to be collected as Mr Ms car still required insurance.
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has a separate complaint relating to the delays involved in repairing his car and the 
type of courtesy car supplied to him. I wont be commenting on these points here. My remit is 
to consider Mr Ms concern that he has found the part needed to repair his car, and this has 
been dismissed by Aviva. 
Im sorry for the delays Mr M has experienced in relation to his car being repaired. This must 
be extremely frustrating for him. I can understand why he thinks the part he found online 
should mean the repairs can now go ahead more quickly. However, I dont think this is the 
case. Let me explain.
Mr M provided a link to the website where he found the part that is needed to repair his car. 
Ive read the information provided on this website to understand whether this was a viable 
alternative to waiting for Avivas supplier to obtain the part. 
The website states that the components it supplies are genuine and come with a 
manufacturers warranty. Further information is provided with respect to the warranty. This 
says:
Limitations
[manufacturer] parts which are distributed by [manufacturer] of North America and sold from, 
but not installed, by an authorized [manufacturer] dealership are covered for 12 months from 
the date of purchase. 
What the Warranty Does Not Cover:
Any Parts sold or distributed outside the U.S., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
I think its clear that if the part is distributed to the UK it will not be provided with a 
manufacturers warranty. This means the part couldnt be used in the repairs arranged by 
Aviva.
I note Aviva referred Mr M onto its agent that had ordered the part if he wanted to discuss 
the online supplier hed found. It didnt comment in detail on the parts supplied via this 
website or mention the warranty issue. But I dont think Mr M has shown that this is a viable 
alternative that couldve sped up the repair process. As above, the web-link he supplied 
confirms the component he identified wouldnt have included a manufacturers warranty if 
this was distributed to the UK. 
I can understand Mr Ms frustration with the delays in his car being repaired, and his desire 
to have this resolved quickly. But I dont think Aviva has treated him unfairly given the global 
issues affecting the supply of parts.    
In summary, I dont think Mr M has shown that Aviva couldve obtained replacement parts 
sooner, and so I dont think it treated him unfairly in the arrangements it made to have the 
car repaired. Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman