DRN-3769793
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when she 
fell victim to an investment scam.
Background
In late 2020, a friend of Miss Ms recommended she invest her money with a particular 
business. Her friend had already invested money with this business and her investments 
were apparently performing well. Unfortunately, although it wasnt clear to either Miss M or 
her friend at the time, the business in question wasnt a legitimate one, but a scammer. 
Miss Mwas put in contact with a man who claimed to be her broker who explained that he 
would manage the investments on her behalf. She was taken through a fake customer 
verification process that involved her supplying copies of documents, including her passport.
The broker asked her to open a cryptocurrency wallet with a third-party business. She 
transferred fiat currency to this third-party business which was then converted to 
cryptocurrency. That cryptocurrency was subsequently transferred out of Miss Ms account 
to a blockchain address controlled by the fraudster. She was given access to a platform 
which showed her fictionalised data on how her investment was performing. This data 
suggested that her investment was performing well and so encouraged her to invest more 
money. In total, Miss M transferred a little over £100,000.
When Miss M wanted to withdraw funds from her account, all communication with the 
scammer stopped. She recognised that she mustve fallen victim to a scam and so she 
contacted Barclays immediately. Barclays said it wouldnt pay her a refund. It said that she 
suffered no financial loss when she made a transfer from her Barclays account. The account 
to which she made those transfers was also under her control. It was only when she 
authorised the transfer of the cryptocurrency onwards from that account that she suffered a 
financial loss. That transaction didnt involve Barclays.
Miss M was unhappy with the response she received from Barclays and so she referred a 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The 
Investigator said that Barclays shouldve recognised that there had been a sudden change in 
the pattern of activity on Miss Ms account. It shouldnt have simply taken her payment 
instructions at face value. 
The Investigator noted that when she authorised a payment for £10,000 to the fraudster on 
23 December 2020 it was the fourth payment shed made to the scammer. The Investigator 
considered that Barclays shouldve recognised there was an enhanced risk that Miss M had 
been targeted by a fraudster. Rather than processing that payment, it shouldve contacted 
her and asked her several questions about the payment. If it had done so, the Investigator 
considered it highly likely that the scam wouldve unfolded and her subsequent losses 
wouldve been prevented. 
The Investigator recommended that Barclays refund each transaction from that point 
onwards and add 8% simple interest per annum to each. Barclays disagreed with the 
Investigators view. It said it wouldve had no reason to question the payments because the 
third-party business to which shed made the payments is a legitimate merchant.
It also pointed out that there is now a warning on the website of the regulator about the 
scammer. However, this wasnt posted until February 2021. It said even if it had intervened 
and questioned the December 2020 payment, it wouldnt have found any concerning 
information online. Its most likely that it wouldnt have been able to prevent Miss M falling 
victim to the scam.
Finally, it didnt think it was fair for it to be expected to pay 8% simple interest on each 
payment, particularly given that most of the transactions were funded by transfers from Miss 
Ms partners account, rather than her own funds. 
Since Barclays disagreed with the Investigators recommendation, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account is that Miss M is liable for payments shes authorised. However, taking into account 
the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied that there was a stark change in the way Miss M was using her account. I say 
that because most of the payments made from her account were for small sums. Only two 
payments were for more than £1,000  and one of them was a direct debit payment. When 
Miss M authorised four payments of around £25,000 in one calendar month, I think Barclays 
ought to have recognised that Miss M was at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
Im mindful of the fact that there can be short-term spikes in spending on an account where 
most payments are fairly low, particularly given that the funds that were paid to the scammer 
were transferred into Miss Ms account from a different account controlled by her partner. It's 
quite common, for example, for a customer to set aside savings for a specific purpose which 
might involve a large transfer of funds. For that reason, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to have processed the earliest payments Miss M made in connection with the 
scam. But I agree with the Investigator that the £10,000 payment she authorised on 23 December 2020 was the point at which concerns about the risk of fraud ought to have 
manifested.
Barclays says that Miss M wouldve seen a warning with each payment. The text of this 
warning attempts to deal with a range of different scam types. It recommended that Miss M 
check the FCA website for warnings about scam companies. I dont know if Miss M followed 
this advice. She doesnt recall seeing the warning. But in any event, there was no warning 
on the FCA website in December 2020, although one was published in early 2021.
However, given the sums of money involved and the fact that Miss Ms spending pattern had 
many of the hallmarks of an investment scam, I think Barclays needed to do more than 
display a general warning about the risk of such scams during the payment process. I dont 
think it shouldve processed the £10,000 payment until it had spoken to Miss M and asked 
her about its purpose.
If it had done so, I think it wouldve emerged that Miss M didnt really understand what the 
companys investment strategy was. That would be unsurprising since it didnt have a 
coherent explanation as to how it would earn a return for her. She would likely have 
explained that shed set up a cryptocurrency account with a third party and that she had no 
control of the cryptocurrency she was purchasing. These wouldve been strong indicators 
that it was unlikely to be a legitimate investment. I also agree with the observations the 
Investigator made that Barclays wouldve been concerned about the fact that Miss M 
couldnt withdraw any of the proceeds of her investment without first requesting the 
permission of the broker.
There was a significant asymmetry of knowledge in play here. Miss M wasnt an experienced 
investor and the scammer took full advantage of that. An employee of the bank should have 
contextualised the general warning given when she was making the payment and explained 
to Miss M that, if the investment company wasnt on the FCA Register, it was an 
unauthorised business. It couldnt legitimately offer her any investment products or advice 
without being authorised by the regulator and so it was unlikely to be anything other than a 
scam. If this had happened, I think it would be very unlikely that shed have wanted to 
proceed with any of the subsequent payments.
Ive also considered whether Miss M should be considered in any way responsible for her 
losses. It appears that she trusted and acted on the advice of a friend who appeared to have 
an investment with the same company that was performing well. In the circumstances, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for her to have taken this at face value. Overall, Im satisfied 
she was the blameless victim of a sophisticated scam and I dont think she can be said to be 
partially responsible for her own losses.
Putting things right
The Investigator recommended that Barclays refund every transaction from that point 
onwards. She also recommended that it add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum. 
However, Im not convinced that would be fair compensation in the circumstances of this 
case, particularly given that most of the money that was paid to the scammers came from 
someone elses account. 
For that reason, Im asking Barclays to only add on any interest at the rate that applied to her 
current account. This interest calculation should run from the date the payments left her 
account until the date the settlement is paid. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint.If Miss M accepts my decision, Barclays Bank UK PLC should: 
- Refund the payments she made to the scammer from the £10,000 payment made on 
23 December 2020 onwards.
- Calculate whether any interest should be applied in line with my instructions above. If 
so, this should be added to the award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman