DRN-3685030
The complaint
Mrs B complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds actions when renewing her policy. 
What happened
Mrs B has a private medical insurance policy with BUPA. Following a renewal notification 
she contacted it to ask for some medical exclusions to be removed. And BUPA explained it 
would send a form to Mrs B, which she would then need to pass to her GP for completion. 
Rather than sending that form to Mrs B, BUPA sent it to her ex-husband.
Mrs B complained about what had happened. She said her ex-husband contacted her to say 
hed received the above form, and had accused her of trying to cover herself under his policy 
and being the reason for his premiums increasing. Mrs B wanted to know what had 
happened. And when she received a copy of what BUPA had incorrectly sent to her ex-
husband she said she was horrified to realise that sensitive details about her medical 
conditions had been disclosed to him. 
BUPA explained that one of its advisors had input the wrong address and apologised for the 
significant upset that had caused. It also sent Mrs B £600 in compensation, confirmed it had 
raised the issue as an internal incident, and fed the issue back to the advisors manager too.
Our investigator thought £600 was a fair reflection of the breach but not a full reflection of the 
impact of it on Mrs B. So they recommended BUPA increase its £600 to £850. 
BUPA agreed, but Mrs B did not. She said the amount of distress and bad feeling caused by 
BUPA could not be underestimated. She said shed lost faith in BUPAs ability to keep her 
data safe, and the disclosure of her medical conditions which sometimes had stigma 
attached to them was devastating. Mrs B also set out that an amount closer to £1,500 would 
better reflect what had happened to her. And so as no agreement was reached the matter 
was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint for similar reasons to that of the 
investigator before me. Let me explain why. 
That information was incorrectly sent to Mrs Bs ex-husband isnt disputed. BUPAs mistake 
was caused by human error rather than a system failure and Im pleased it has taken steps 
to try and prevent something similar happening again. I know Mrs B remains concerned 
about this, but I think BUPA has tried to reassure her by: 
Raising the issue as an internal incident to generate an internal review. 
Providing feedback to the advisors manager. 
Ensuring all relevant training had taken place for the advisor.
Ensuring the advisor understood the importance of double-checking documents 
before posting them.
What still remains in dispute is the amount of compensation that BUPA should pay in order 
to fully reflect the impact of the mistake on Mrs B. While I too agree that the £600 BUPA paid 
was a fair reflection of the serious nature of its mistake, I dont think the £600 fully 
encompasses the impact this had on Mrs B either.
Mrs B has set out that impact as follows and I thank her for taking the time to do so:
She might not have been so upset had her personal information been sent to 
someone else. But it was sent to her ex-husband which meant both he and his new 
partner had seen it. 
The amount of distress and bad feeling that had been caused could not be 
underestimated. It was not just humiliation and embarrassment that she experienced, 
but she was devastated by what had happened and it had resurfaced her feelings 
about the separation too. 
She had lost faith in BUPA and hadnt asked her GP to share any further details 
about her medical conditions because she was scared BUPA might share that with 
the wrong person too. 
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss 
mistake has had on someone. It is not designed to punish a business. 
Given what was shared and with whom, I fully empathise with Mrs Bs situation and 
understand why she feels the way she does about it. And in view of the impact shes kindly 
shared I agree that an increase of £250 (taking BUPAs total compensation amount to £850) 
is a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of BUPAs mistake.
I know Mrs B has said that an amount closer to £1,500 would be a fairer reflection, but I think 
such an amount would feel disproportionate here. I hasten to add that I dont say this in any 
way to detract from what did happen. 
Putting things right
To put things right BUPA should pay an additional £250 to take its overall compensation 
amount to £850. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BUPA Insurance Limited should put things 
right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman