DRN-3212580
The complaint
Ms H complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General Insurance at 
the time, unfairly declined a claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Hs dog needed treatment for a sore leg. She made a claim to Fairmead to cover the cost 
of the treatment. 
Fairmead paid for the initial treatment in March 2020 but declined the claim when further 
treatment was needed in June 2020. It said the policy didnt cover any pre-existing 
conditions. And it said that looking at Ms Hs dogs medical history, the condition Ms H was 
claiming for was related to a previous condition her dog had been treated for prior to the 
policy commencement. It said it had paid the initial claim in error but wouldnt be asking     
Ms H to repay what it had already paid out. 
Ms H disagreed and asked Fairmead to reconsider the claim. She provided a letter from her 
veterinary surgeon explaining that this was a new condition and not any post-surgical 
complication or condition. 
Fairmead reviewed the claim but didnt change its decision. It said it still felt the claim related 
to a pre-existing condition as defined in the policy. 
Ms H remained unhappy so referred the complaint to us. Our investigator thought Fairmead 
acted fairly and in line with Ms Hs policy when declining the claim, so she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Ms H didnt agree. She said the policy terms were too vague and the previous condition had 
been treated and resolved so this condition shouldnt be treated as a pre-existing one. She 
also felt Fairmead should have set out how long the exclusion would apply as leaving it open 
seemed unreasonable, so she thought because of this the reliance should be placed on 
what the treating surgeon said. 
Our investigator considered Ms Hs points further, but they didnt change her opinion. So   
Ms H asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Fairmead has an obligation not to unreasonably decline a claim. So I need to be satisfied its 
acted fairly when declining Ms Hs claim for the treatment of her dog. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Hs policy with Fairmead have a general exclusion for all 
pre-existing conditions. It defines a pre-existing condition as: Any condition diagnosed or 
undiagnosed showing signs, symptoms, manifesting or existing in any form prior to the 
commencement date.
Looking at the policy document and the key facts document, I find that the terms relating to 
pre-existing conditions are clear. But I need to be satisfied Fairmead has applied them fairly 
to Ms Hs claim. So Ive looked carefully at the history of this matter.
Ms H took out the policy in January 2019 and renewed it in January 2020. Prior to getting 
her dog Ms H confirmed her dog had a broken leg which was treated by the charity she got 
her dog from. She said that the treatment involved her dog having metal fixing plates 
implanted into the leg. She told us the treatment resolved the issue and there were no 
subsequent concerns with the leg. 
When assessing the claim, Fairmead looked at Ms Hs dogs medical history and said based 
on this it felt the condition wasnt covered by the policy because the current condition she 
was claiming for was connected to the previous condition from 2018. And I think thats 
reasonable. 
Whilst I understand Ms H doesnt feel this was the same condition, the treating surgeon 
indicated there was an infection of the implant. And that the presence of the abscess and 
infection originated from the implant itself. So had it not been for the treatment and implant 
Ms Hs dog received for the broken leg in 2018 the current condition is unlikely to have 
established itself. I say this because the treatment needed now for Ms Hs dog was to 
remove the same implant that had been inserted during the initial treatment in 2018. 
So Im satisfied Fairmead acted fairly when saying the medical history indicates the condition 
was related to a pre-existing issue, as the infection and treatment needed in the leg was 
directly related to the implant Ms Hs dog had in 2018.
I appreciate that the treating surgeon may have felt this was a new condition but here its for 
Fairmead to decide the level of risk it wants to cover and which, if any, pre-existing 
conditions it wishes to provide cover for with its policies. Ms Hs policy doesnt have a 
limitation placed on the time in which the pre-existing term might elapse, and this isnt 
uncommon in policies of this type, so I dont think this is unreasonable either. 
Ive also considered Ms Hs comments about the policy terms being vague but as mentioned 
above the terms are clearly set out in the policy document and the key facts document, so I 
dont think Fairmead acted unfairly here.  
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Ms H. And I sympathise with the situation 
this leaves her in. But while she had a pet insurance policy, this doesnt mean that Fairmead 
will be liable for claims that its policy doesnt provide cover for. I wont be asking Fairmead to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Jag DhupharOmbudsman