DRN-4288126
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) stopped paying 
the monthly benefit after a successful claim had been made under a group income protection 
insurance policy he has the benefit of through his employer (the policyholder).
What happened
In 2019, Mr D became absent from work due to illness and a successful claim was made on 
the policy, underwritten by L&G. 
L&G paid the monthly benefit to the policyholder for the benefit of Mr D as it accepted that he 
was incapacitated due to illness to the extent that he was unable to perform the essential 
duties of the job he carried out immediately before he became too ill to work. L&G continued 
to review the claim. 
The policy says that after two years from the benefit start, the definition of incapacity 
changes. Payment of the benefit will continue only if Mr D was unable to undertake any 
occupation which L&G considered appropriate to his experience, training or education.
L&G requested the opinion of one of Mr Ds consultants, asked Mr D to complete an 
occupational questionnaire and arranged a call with him to discuss his daily functioning and 
typical day.
L&G concluded in July 2022 that Mr D was well enough to carry out other suitable work and 
provided notice to the policyholder that it would be ceasing the monthly benefit. 
Unhappy, Mr D appealed that decision but ultimately L&G didnt reinstate monthly benefit. 
So, Mr D complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr 
Ds complaint. As Mr D disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes Mr Ds submissions to the Financial Ombudsman Service dated March 2023, 
when first making his complaint and August 2023, in response to our investigators view.
At the outset I acknowledge Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr D has, 
and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules 
that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an informal dispute 
resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr D has more recently sent our investigator an occupational health report dated June 2023 
and a letter from his GP dated July 2023. Both these documents are dated after L&Gs final 
response letter dated March 2023. Im only considering whether L&G acted fairly and 
reasonably up to the date of the final response letter. So, I havent taken the contents of 
these documents into account. However, Mr D is free to forward any further evidence to L&G 
for consideration. 
The relevant rules and regulations
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably 
reject a claim.
When making a claim, its for Mr D to demonstrate that he met the definition of incapacity, 
and he was able to do that. As L&G ceased paying the monthly benefit, its for it to show that 
Mr D no longer met the definition of incapacity. Its not for Mr D to show that he continued to 
do so. 
The relevant policy terms
The policy says L&G will immediately end payment of benefit ifthe insured member 
ceases to be a disabled member.
Disabled member means an insured member who at any time meets the incapacity 
definition.
The applicable definition of incapacity is set out in the schedule of insurance. And this 
confirms the relevant definition of incapacity is progressive.
Progressive means payment of benefit under the policy is assessed against own 
occupation for a period of two years starting on the benefit start date, then suited occupation 
for the next two years
Suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed 
illness or injury so that he is unable to undertake any occupation which L&G considers 
appropriate to his experience, training or education.
L&Gs decision to cease paying the claim
Im satisfied that L&Gs decision to cease paying the claim when it did was fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that L&G was correct in using the definition of suited occupation when 
reviewing the claim in 2022. By that stage, it had been paying the monthly benefit for 
over two years.
In early 2022, Mr D completed a members continuation statement. He said that he 
couldnt concentrate on admin tasks for any length of time eg 1 hour without feeling 
severe mental fatigue afterwards, that he had constant upper back and neck pain 
and numbness in a certain part of his body. At that time, he described the main 
barrier to work being severe fatigue and although he could do short periods of 
exercise, he needed long recovery times. He estimated he could walk 2,000 meters 
without stopping, could write and use a keyboard and drive a car  although he said 
that he would have to factor in recovery time as appropriate. 
Around the same time, L&G wrote to Mr Ds Consultant ENT, asking for updated 
information including their opinion on Mr Ds ability to work. The consultants letter dated April 2022 reflects that theyd met with Mr D a couple of months before and he 
was doing well. 
The consultant goes on to say that its reasonable for Mr D to return to work, but this 
might be limited by the amount of fatigue that he feels after a period of work. And it 
would be helpful for an employer to work with Mr D to have reduced hours or a 
shortened week. The type of work would have to be taken into account along with the 
distance of travel to work and his other comorbidities. 
In this particular case, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to rely on the 
contents of this letter when considering whether Mr D continued to meet the policy 
definition of being incapacitated. Theyd recently met with Mr D and if they didnt feel 
they were in a position to comment on Mr Ds ability to return to work, I think its 
reasonable to assume that they wouldnt have done so. Further, this letter wasnt 
considered in isolation. L&G relied on other evidence before taking the decision to 
stop paying the claim. 
In May 2022, L&G arranged a vocational clinical specialist consultation with Mr D. 
The resultant report reflects that Mr D could read for an hour but then gets mentally 
fatigued and its hard for him to concentrate for long periods. He finds long phone 
calls and socialising tiring and has to plan his day and tasks. He couldnt go out for 
the whole day as this would wipe him out for the next two days and he tends to go 
out in the morning and takes it easy for the rest of the day. Its also reflected that he 
was able to stand and sit for a while and that he drove approximately 35 miles to help 
a family member move and pack things. And he helped move some light boxes but 
had to rest after a few hours. He was able to do some gardening, cooking and other 
household chores, go on short walks and bike rides. 
Although its reflected that Mr D reported increased fatigue levels in the afternoons, if 
he returned to alternative role adjustments were put into place such as flexible 
working to accommodate his fatigue levels, the vocational clinic specialist concluded 
that Mr D could return to work in an alternative role on a phased return. He would 
require adequate time to build up his stamina and reintegrate back into the 
workplace. 
In light of the vocational clinical specialist report and the consultants letter, Im 
satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for L&G to conclude at this stage that Mr Ds 
illness no longer prevented him undertaking a suited occupation with necessary 
adjustments to take into account his fatigue, on a phased return.
Ive taken on board what Mr D has said about the vocational clinical specialist report 
exaggerating/misconstruing what he said. Further, hes unhappy that he wasnt 
asked to consider the report in advance of the decision being made to cease paying 
the claim to confirm it was an accurate reflection of what was discussed. However, 
having considered what Mr D now says about what was recorded, I dont think there 
is much disagreement on what he was and wasnt able to do. For example, Mr D 
says he didnt regularly drive 35 miles as mentioned by the author of the report but at 
the time he had recently completed two drives of similar length. 
Mr D is also unhappy that he wasnt aware that the purpose of this call was to 
consider whether he was well enough to undertake alternative suited occupation. 
However, Ive seen an email from L&G to the policyholder dated 13 May 2022 which 
confirms that the policy definition of a disabled member had now switched to suited 
occupation and the claim was being reviewed. So, L&G would be arranging a 
telephone assessment to explore a phased return to work for Mr D. The policyholder 
was asked to advise Mr D about this. As Mr D wasnt the policyholder, I dont think 
L&G unreasonably explained to the policyholder the reason for the vocational clinical 
assessment and if that information wasnt passed on to Mr D, I dont think I can reasonably hold L&G responsible for this. 
Mr D also says that the conversation with the vocational clinic specialist took place 
six months prior to the claim ending. However, Im satisfied that it took place within 
two months of the decision being taken by L&G to cease paying the claim, with notice 
 as confirmed in its letter to the policyholder dated July 2022.
From Mr Ds perspective, I can understand why he thinks L&G ought to have 
approached his GP for a report on his ability to work before taking this decision. 
However, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it was unfair for L&G not to 
do this or that a GP report wouldve made any difference. Mr D may have still been 
signed off work by his GP and thats a relevant consideration. But in isolation I dont 
think that means that Mr D was incapacitated as defined by the policy. The particular 
policy definition of incapacity had to be established for the monthly benefit to be paid 
under the policy. 
When appealing the decision to cease paying the monthly benefit, Mr D provided a 
letter from his GP dated January 2023. This reflects that Mr D struggles with 
concentration and this would have a big impact on his ability to work in an 
environment where accuracy and analysing data is important.  The GP also says Mr 
D gets exhausted very quickly and unpredictably. And concludes that in their medical 
opinion Mr D was still unable to work in the role he was previously working in. 
However, importantly in this case, the GP doesnt conclude that Mr D wasnt able to 
return to work in any capacity. And it also looks like their opinion is based on Mr D 
self-reported symptoms of the impact of his fatigue and concentration. Whereas L&G 
also considered Mr Ds reporting of his everyday tasks back in May 2022 and the 
impact his symptoms had on his ability to function. And for reasons Ive already set 
out above, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to also rely on the contents of 
the vocational clinical specialist report.
In his appeal letter dated January 2023 Mr D says: if I returned to work in even a 
limited capacity, I would suffer disproportionately with fatigue being physically and 
mentally shattered in the evenings and weekend. Not to mention the chronic back 
pain as well If thats the case and working would mean that Mr D would be more 
fatigued at evenings and weekends, I dont think that means that illness was 
preventing him from undertaking a suited occupation. 
Im persuaded by what L&Gs Chief Medical Officer (CMO), an occupational 
physician, concluded having reviewed Mr Ds case after his appeal and having 
considered the information relied on to stop paying the claim: fatigue can interfere 
with workbut with appropriate workplace supportpeople are able to engage in 
gainful employment and not be totally excluded from the workforce, in line with a 
move away from an all or nothing approach. And that when considering alternative 
suited employment: there needs to be a degree of practicality and awareness that 
reported symptoms can vary on a day-to-day or week-to-week basis and the role 
should have appropriate flexibility built in, to maximise the chances of success at 
work. The activities reported by the member are indicative of good cognitive ability, 
motivation, concentration, attention to detail and good reaction time, which are 
positive from an occupational physician prognosis perspective.
Although Mr D says there are some inaccuracies in the summary of medical history 
provided by the CMO, I dont think theyre significant enough to undermine the overall 
conclusions of the CMO. 
L&Gs CMO did suggest obtaining a transferable skills analysis which was 
undertaken in February 2023. Having considered Mr Ds medical history, educational 
and work experience, occupational questionnaire and vocational clinical specialist report, it was identified that Mr D had a range of transferrable skills and specified 
three roles he would be able to do. It reflected that Mr D would meet the 
requirements of the roles; one of which could be undertaken from home. The 
transferrable skills report acknowledges and foresees the difficulties Mr D might have 
undertaking the roles identified and proposes adjustments which could be made to 
ensure theyre suitable for him. For example, being allowed additional time to 
complete tasks, regular breaks and a comprehensive ergonomic assessment. 
Im conscious that the underlying medical condition which has caused Mr Ds fatigue 
and limitations amounts to a disability as defined by the Equality Act 2010. As such, 
any future prospective employer wouldnt be able to treat him unfavourably because 
of  or for a reason associated with his medical condition. A future employer would 
also have a legal duty to make reasonable adjustments to the job role. 
So, despite Mr Ds illness and reported limitations, I dont think L&G has 
unreasonably concluded that hes able to undertake an alternative suited occupation. 
The roles identified are different to the role Mr D was doing before he was too ill to 
work. Theyre also not as well paid. But under the policy, a suited occupation isnt 
deemed inappropriate if its lowered paid than the job being done before the start of 
the deferred period (or lower than the monthly benefit) - or lacks the status or 
seniority of their own role. 
Other issues
Mr D is also unhappy that L&G reduced his monthly benefit without notice. However, 
Ive seen a letter from L&G to his employer dated 29 July 2022 setting out its 
decision to cease the benefit and providing notice of this. As his employer is the 
policyholder, I dont think thats unfair and is in line with what Id reasonably expect it 
to have done. If the policyholder didnt promptly notify Mr D of that decision, I dont 
think I can fairly hold L&G responsible for that.
Hes also unhappy that L&G didnt acknowledge his initial appeal letter in July 2022. 
However, by that stage, the decision hadnt been taken by L&G to cease paying his 
claim. It had only been in discussions with the policyholder about the possibility of 
ceasing the claim and why. And L&G notified the policyholder that although Mr D had 
decided to appeal the decision, it hadnt issued written confirmation that the benefit 
would cease. So, it couldnt consider an appeal for a claim that hadnt yet concluded. 
I think thats fair and reasonable. 
After receiving the final response letter in March 2023, the policyholder notified L&G 
that it contained information belonging to someone else. It raised concerns that there 
had been a data breach and asked for the final response to be re-issued without 
reference to that information. Mr D is very upset that he didnt receive an apology for 
this and was worried that L&G may have also invertedly disclosed information 
relating to him to someone else. Upon being notified of the issue by the policyholder, 
Im satisfied that L&G promptly took remedial action. It said it reviewed the contents 
of the final response letter to make sure it didnt alter the outcome and reissued a 
correct version of it. It also apologised to the policyholder. I think that was fair and 
reasonable to put things right. As Mr D wasnt the policyholder, and the final 
response letter was addressed to the policyholder, I dont think L&G reasonably 
ought to have provided a personal apology to Mr D. 
In summary, I know Mr D will be very disappointed with my decision. I want to assure him 
that its in no way intended to be dismissive of his medical history and his past and current 
limitations. I can see hes been through a very difficult time. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think L&G has fairly and reasonably decided to stop pay the monthly benefit 
under the policy when it did.My final decision
For the reason set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman