DRN-2834579
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to send him account statements which 
resulted in a default being unfairly registered on his credit file.
What happened
Mr P says he didnt receive regular credit card account statements from Sainsburys and as 
a result was unaware of the required minimum payment. He says he made a payment of £50 
in January 2020, but his bank failed to make the payment in February 2020. Mr P says he 
was unaware if a payment was due in March 2020 as he was still not receiving statements. 
He says he received some letters from Sainsburys including one which said the arrears 
were £86 and so he overpaid on 7 May 2020 by paying £100. Mr P says a letter told him he 
owed £1,655.22 but he didnt receive a statement backing that up and Sainsburys letters 
continued to arrive late. In summary Mr P says the default was unfairly registered and he 
made payments in excess of the amount requested. He would like the default removed.
Sainsburys says Mr P used his account for spending in November 2019 and made a 
balance transfer to the account in December 2019. It says it didnt receive a payment until 
May 2020 after the payment in January 2020 for £50. Sainsburys says it sent a notice of 
default on 1 April 2020 and various other arrears letters before the default was registered on 
1 June 2020. It says those letters told Mr P that there was an outstanding balance of over 
£1,643 and says from June 2018 it sent statements electronically. Sainsburys provided us 
with a different e-mail address to Mr Ps actual e-mail and says Mr P needed to repay the 
arrears before 1 June 2020.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought that Mr P ought to have been aware he made purchases in November 2019 using 
his Sainsburys credit card and that he made the balance transfer in December 2019. The 
investigator thought Mr P failed to make required payments in February, March and April 
2020 and that Sainsburys had told Mr P in letters about the arrears even if he didnt receive 
the statements.
Mr P disagrees with that view and maintains he didnt receive statements from December 
2019 on and says that is a breach of his credit card account agreement. He says he didnt 
receive the default letter but, in any event, he cleared the outstanding arrears balance on 7 
May 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.
I can see from the screen shots Mr P has given us of his e-mail account that he received 
electronic account statements from Sainsburys from August 2019 until December 2019. Im 
satisfied those statements would have shown the amount outstanding at that stage and the 
spending which Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware of and that he carried out a 
balance transfer of over £225 in December 2019. So even if Mr P didnt receive any further 
statements for some time, I think he ought to have been aware that by January 2020 there 
was an outstanding balance of more than £1,000 which would require repayment.
I cant be sure what the issue with the statements was. I appreciate Mr P says he didnt 
receive them, but Sainsburys says they were sent in the same way they had for some time. 
In those circumstances I would have expected Mr P to have raised the issue in January 
2020 or to have used his online account access to check the balance that way. I also think 
Mr P could have contacted Sainsburys by other means and that it was his responsibility to 
manage his account and make required payments.
I can see that Sainsburys has Mr Ps correct e-mail and that there isnt any issue that 
statements were sent until at least December 2019. I think it likely on balance that 
Sainsburys may well have misread Mr Ps e-mail details on its systems when it gave us the 
e-mail information.
Im satisfied that Mr P didnt make required payments for February, March and April 2020 
and whilst I appreciate, he says his bank failed to set up a method to pay the debt I cant 
fairly hold Sainsburys responsible for that. I also think that suggests Mr P knew he needed 
to make required payments but didnt do so for that period.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidance on the registration of 
defaults and says they should normally be registered between three and six months of 
account arrears. Im satisfied Sainsburys sent Mr P numerous letters about his account 
following the missed payments which included details of the outstanding balance. I 
appreciate Mr P says he didnt receive some of them, but Im satisfied they were sent, and I 
cant fairly hold Sainsburys responsible for the safe delivery of mail. 
Im satisfied Sainsburys didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by registering the default on Mr 
Ps credit file and that it acted in line with ICO guidance. Im also satisfied it fairly told Mr P 
what the outstanding balance was, and I have made clear I think Mr P ought reasonably to 
have been aware of that balance in broad terms even if he didnt receive the statements. I 
dont think Mr P has explained why he didnt contact Sainsburys by telephone in January 
2020 and ask what the balance was or tell it then he wasnt receiving the statements. I can 
also see Mr P could have requested statements be sent by post.
I have looked carefully at the outstanding balance amounts Sainsburys recorded in its 
various letters to Mr P, as I appreciate Mr P says he cleared the arrears on 7 May 2020. I 
can see that on 20 March 2020 Sainsburys told Mr P that payments of £86.21 hadnt been 
made. Mr P made that payment on 6 May 2020, but I can also see the letter told Mr P that 
amount may not clear the arrears as they were increasing. I dont think Mr P ever cleared the 
arrears by the date he was required to do so by, and ought to have been aware they were 
increasing as he wasnt making the required payments.
Overall, Im satisfied this was Mr Ps account and his responsibility to manage it and be 
broadly aware of the balance he owed Sainsburys. Im satisfied the relationship had clearly 
broken down between Mr P and Sainsburys and there was a number of missed payments. 
In those circumstances I find Sainsburys in line with its regulatory duties was required to 
report accurate account information to the Credit Reference Agencies which in this case was 
the registration of the default which I find correctly recorded. I have not been asked to 
comment on the compensation payment made by Sainsburys for the delay in responding to 
the complaint and its clear that is not Mr Ps main complaint here. But I make clear I find 
Sainsburys has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer for that delay.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman