DRN-4054730
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs (Great Lakes) decision to decline a claim 
made under her landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs K owns a property which she rents out. When her tenant moved out in May 2022, Mrs K 
found what she considered to be malicious damage to the property. She says she spent a 
considerable amount of money carrying out repairs and made a claim to Great Lakes. 
Great Lakes considered Mrs Ks claim but declined it. Whilst it agreed there was damage, it 
considered this was caused by the tenants negligence rather than the property being 
maliciously damaged. Mrs K complained about Great Lakes decision, but it didnt change 
the outcome of the claim.
Mrs K referred her complaint to us, and it was considered by one of our investigators. She 
concluded Great Lakes hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim. As Mrs K didnt agree, 
this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K considers the actions of the tenant were malicious for a number of reasons. She says 
they denied her access to the property for the duration of the tenancy, left the property with 
so much damage she needed to carry out a significant amount of work to return it to a 
condition where it could be rented out, and also failed to return the keys until after the locks 
had been changed. 
The policy Mrs K took out provides cover for damage caused by malicious persons. 
However, the policy doesnt define what it means by malicious. But, by general 
interpretation, a malicious action is something intended to cause harm. So, for me to agree 
with Mrs K that Great Lakes should accept her claim, I need to be persuaded the tenant 
intended to cause harm to Mrs K, rather than acted with neglect or without care. 
Ive considered photographs Mrs K provided. These show damage to the property including 
dirty and damaged carpets, along with damage in the bathroom and kitchen. In particular, 
Mrs K has highlighted the pictures of the oven as potentially showing malicious behaviours, 
and her belief the tenant intentionally left plastic items to melt. Mrs K has, as Ive said, also 
expressed concern the keys werent returned when the tenant vacated the property.  
Great Lakes is of the view the property hasnt been maliciously damaged, saying the 
damage Mrs K showed photographs of indicated it was poorly maintained by the tenant. Its 
clear (and accepted by both sides) the property was in a poor condition when Mrs K 
regained access. But the key issue is whether the condition of the property and the damage 
sustained was malicious in its intent. 
However, I dont think the conclusion Great Lakes reached in determining the damage was 
caused by a lack of care is unreasonable. It seems the images provided by Mrs K at the end 
of the tenancy show the tenant failed to take a proper level of care of the property as Mrs K 
could have expected as the landlord. 
I agree with Great Lakes the images indicate a lack of care taken by the tenant. But Im not 
persuaded Mrs Ks account of the damage, along with the images and supporting messages, 
are sufficient for me to conclude the intention of the tenants actions were malicious and 
intended to cause harm. For this reason, Im not requiring Great Lakes to take any further 
action in respect of Mrs Ks claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman