DRN-2274289
The complaint
The representatives of the estate of Mr E complain, via a claims management company 
(CMC), about the unsuitability of investment advice provided to Mr E by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC over a period from 1993 to 2008.
What happened
Mr E received advice from Barclays in 1993, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2008.
The 1993 investment was split between an Equity Income Fund and a General Fund. 
Barclays explained that it had no records to support the suitability of this first sale, so it 
offered to compensate the estate based on a comparison with a no-risk benchmark.
However, this showed that no loss had been incurred.
In respect of the other recommendations Barclays felt they had been broadly suitable for 
Mr E. In April 2000 and March 2001, he was assessed as a medium risk investor. He was 
aged 72, widowed, with no dependents and a healthy disposable income. He had cash 
available that he wanted to invest for the beneficiaries of his will. Recommendations were 
made to invest in the Managed Growth Fund and Managed Global Growth Fund 
respectively.
He invested again in October 2002, this time into a with profits fund, which he did again in 
August 2008. His final investments were made in October 2008, into two capital guaranteed 
products. These later investments reflected a lowering of risk commensurate with him being 
older and his circumstances changing.
The CMC wasnt satisfied with Barclays overall response and referred the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator reached broadly the same conclusions as Barclays. He felt it had taken a 
reasonable approach in respect of the 1993 investment and that most of the other 
recommendations seemed generally suitable. But he thought that the recommendation made 
in March 2001, into the Managed Global Growth Fund, was likely to have been too risky for 
Mr E.
The investigator noted that 18 months after the advice had been given to Mr E this fund had 
been renamed as the Adventurous Growth Fund. The investigator felt this indicated that the 
fund was likely to have been too risky for a medium risk investor. So, he recommended that 
Barclays pay compensation to the estate for this sale.
Barclays didnt accept this as it didnt feel there was any evidence to support the fund being 
anything other than a medium risk fund at the time of the advice. It also highlighted that the 
investigators proposed redress used our cautious benchmark, yet it seemed accepted that 
Mr E had been a medium risk investor at the time.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems all parties accept that Barclays view in respect of the 1993 advice is fair and that 
the other recommendations  bar that of March 2001  were generally suitable for Mr E.
Looking at the March 2001 recommendation, it does appear that its likely to have pushed 
the level of risk beyond what Mr E wanted or was consistent with his circumstances. I note 
what Barclays has said about the change to the name of the fund coming 18 months after 
the advice. But I nevertheless think the name change likely reflects the fact that there was a 
material difference between the fund recommended to Mr E in April 2000  the Managed 
Growth Fund  and the fund recommend in March 2001  the Managed Global Growth Fund 
(my emphasis).
While there is, as noted, little documentation available now giving details of the funds, the 
simple fact that the latter was a global fund suggests a higher-level risk than the former. And 
the documentation that is available described the funds differently, emphasising the global 
funds emphasis on a range of asset types and geographical regions. It also appears that the 
global fund may have been categorised as adventurous prior to its name change, albeit 
some months after the advice.
Overall, I think there was a clear distinction between the funds and more likely than not the 
Managed Global Growth fund invested at a level of risk inconsistent with Mr Es medium 
attitude to risk and his circumstances. As such I think the estate should be compensated for 
this recommendation by way of a comparison with our medium risk investment benchmark, a 
change in the investigators proposed redress that has been communicated to both parties in 
advance of this final decision.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate of Mr E as close to the position it would probably now be in if Mr E had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr E would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what Mr E would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr E's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Barclays do?
To compensate the estate of Mr E fairly, Barclays must:
 Compare the performance of Mr E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interestMarch 2001 FTSE UK 8% simple per
Managed 
Global 
GrowthsurrenderedPrivate 
Investors 
Income 
Totaldate of 
investmentdate 
surrenderedyear on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date
investment Return Index of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr E wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr E's circumstances and risk attitude.
 The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay compensation to the estate of Mr E as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the 
representatives of estate of Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman