DRN-3518268
The complaint
Mr W complains about Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plcs application of an indemnity limit 
on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W holds legal expenses insurance on a policy in his name provided by Ecclesiastical. As 
part of his employment, he was provided with accommodation.
Mr W was informed by his employer, B, that his employment would come to an end due to 
him reaching Bs mandatory retirement age. Mr W sought to take legal action against his 
employer about this. B also initiated legal action to evict Mr W from the accommodation it 
provided him. The specific details about this are well known to both parties, but not relevant 
to my decision.
Mr W sought cover on his legal expenses insurance for these matters  to take legal action 
in respect of his enforced retirement and defend the eviction proceedings. 
Ecclesiastical provided cover for the legal expenses but indicated that once the total legal 
costs for these matters exceeded £50,000, no further cover would be provided as this was 
the policy limit. 
Mr W complained to Ecclesiastical. He said that the legal action around his dismissal and 
defence of eviction proceedings should be considered as separate claims and so each 
should have a £50,000 indemnity limit. 
Ecclesiastical rejected his complaint about the application of the indemnity limit. It 
acknowledged that the claim could have been handled better and paid £250 compensation 
to Mr W.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Ecclesiasticals 
response to the complaint was reasonable. Mr W didnt agree, and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws position is that the employment tribunal and associated legal proceedings, and the 
eviction matters are separate legal matters, being considered separately by the courts. He 
says that because this is the case, then Ecclesiastical should treat them as separate claims, 
with each having a separate indemnity limit of £50,000.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy say:
The most we will pay for all claims resulting from one or more event arising at the same 
time or from the same originating cause is £50,000.
The question I need to address is whether the employment dispute and eviction proceedings 
arise from the same originating cause. The terms and conditions dont give any definition of 
same originating cause, so I have to take the normal and ordinary meaning of this.
Ecclesiasticals view, and that of our investigator, was that the source, or originating cause of 
both legal disputes was B. I agree with this. Specifically, Im satisfied that the originating 
cause of the employment tribunal and associated proceedings was Bs determination that Mr 
Ws employment would end, and that Mr Ws request for an extension wouldnt be granted. 
This was also the originating cause of the eviction process  B had determined that Mr Ws 
employment would end and so he would no longer be entitled to the accommodation. When 
Mr W didnt move out, B instigated eviction proceedings. 
While these are two separate legal matters, being pursued separately, Im satisfied they 
arise from the same originating cause. In line with the policy terms and conditions, 
Ecclesiastical can fairly conclude that the limit of their liability for these matters is £50,000.
Mr Ws also said that the policy limit of £50,000 should, in effect, reset when the policy is 
renewed. Im not sure what his basis for saying this is. The policys liability limit is outlined in 
the policy terms and conditions as being per claim. A claim is made on one policy, 
depending on when the matter giving rise to that claim occurs. Theres no provision for the 
policy liability to reset when a policy is renewed, thereby meaning that a separate limit of 
£50,000 can be applied to a single claim over separate periods of cover.   
Im also aware that Mr W has said that he was informed by a representative of Ecclesiastical 
that the policy liability limit would reset on renewal and that the employment matters and 
eviction would be considered as separate claims. He hasnt given any further detail of when 
he was advised this, and looking at the notes detailing Ecclesiasticals contact with him I 
cant see any reference to this. 
What I can see is that Ecclesiastical was consistent in its written communications with Mr W 
and his legal representatives that a total liability limit of £50,000 applied. So even if I were to 
accept that Mr W had been given incorrect advice about the limit on one occasion, I think the 
extent of the communication giving the correct position would mean that it would be 
unreasonable to say that Ecclesiastical should apply separate limits for the separate legal 
matters or reset the policy limit when the policy was renewed.
Ecclesiastical did recognise that its handling of the claim, in respect of communication and 
progressing it, could have been better. It paid £250 compensation for this. Our investigator 
thought this was a reasonable figure to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr W. I havent been provided anything further from Mr W to suggest that he disagreed with 
this amount. For the sake of completeness however, I do agree that while the handling of the 
claim on occasion fell below the required standard, the £250 paid as compensation is 
reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman