DRN-3132316
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint relates to his buildings insurance policy underwritten by Aviva Insurance 
Limited. He is unhappy that Aviva has concluded that subsidence movement reported in 
2020 was unrelated to a previous occurrence of subsidence and it wont reopen that claim. 
Rather it has said that he has to make a claim on his current insurance policy, and when it 
was told that no such policy cover existed, it said he had to get independent engineering 
evidence to prove the current subsidence was a continuation of the previous claim. Mr C is 
also concerned that hell have to pay a second excess if a new claim is registered. 
What happened
In 2004 Mr C insured his rental property with a branded policy that Aviva underwrote. The 
policy was a commercial one because the property was rented out. 
In 2013 Mr C made a claim for subsidence damage to the property. The cause of the 
damage was determined to be clay shrinkage caused by vegetation on a third-partys land.  
The arboricultural report detailed that an oak tree on that land needed to be removed. The 
report went on to explain that pruning alone as a means of mitigation was not considered a 
viable long-term solution due to the proximity of the tree to the house. 
Aviva applied to the third party to have the offending tree removed, but it didnt agree to do 
so. Instead it pollarded the tree (cut off the crown and branches), leaving it alive and able to 
continue to grow and absorb water from the surrounding ground. This was done in late 2017.
Following the tree works being done by the third party, Avivas engineer reviewed the claim 
and confirmed that the mitigation was complete as the tree had been pollarded to a habitat 
column. Therefore, the claim should proceed to repair works. 
Aviva cash settled the building repairs in the spring of 2019. Mr C arranged shortly thereafter 
for contractors to complete the repairs Aviva had determined were needed.
Slightly over a year after Aviva settled the claim, Mr C contacted Aviva again. This was 
because the repairs that had been completed the previous year were failing. By this time 
hed cancelled the policy with Aviva because of the premium it had wanted to charge him. 
Mr C has since confirmed that the property wasnt insured thereafter as he couldnt find an 
insurer that would include subsidence cover at an affordable price. 
Mr C was told by Aviva that it wouldnt reopen the claim. Rather he would have to refer the 
claim to his new insurer. When Mr C told Aviva that he couldnt do that as the property 
wasnt covered for subsidence, Aviva told him that he would need to provide independent 
evidence from a suitably qualified expert, to prove the new movement was linked to the 
previous claim. 
In October 2020 Aviva called Mr C and discussed his complaint. It followed up with a letter 
summarising the discussions. It detailed that the complaint was about the policy having 
continued beyond when Mr C had decided to move to a new insurer (in 2014). Aviva said 
that because it hadnt been told Mr C wanted to cancel the policy, and he had benefited from 
the cover provided, it wouldnt refund the premiums hed paid. There was no mention in the 
letter of Mr Cs dissatisfaction that Aviva wouldnt reopen the previous claim. 
Aviva sent Mr C a further letter shortly after, saying that it considered the complaint was 
resolved, but reiterating that he had the right to refer his complaint to this service if he wasnt 
satisfied with its response.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld.
Mr C didnt accept what the investigator said and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 October 2021, in which I detailed my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
When Aviva responded to Mr Cs complaint, it focussed on a comment he made about 
having wanted to cancel the insurance policy in 2014. It said that as it hadnt been told this at 
that time, it wouldnt do so retrospectively. I dont think Aviva was entirely wrong in its stance 
on this matter. Unless an insurer is told that a customer wants to cancel a policy, it would be 
inappropriate for it to do so. In this case, I have seen no evidence that Mr C informed Aviva 
that he wanted to cancel the policy and as such, I cant find it did anything wrong in 
continuing to renew it. 
As Mr C has told us that he couldnt find a replacement policy on affordable terms, and so he 
didnt insure the property after the Aviva policy was cancelled, he benefitted from the 
continued cover provided by the policy. However, had Mr C believed hed cancelled the 
Aviva policy and arranged a new one elsewhere, Aviva would have needed to follow the 
usual industry practice for situations were dual insurance policies exist.
I now move on to Avivas refusal to reopen the claim. I dont consider it acted appropriately 
in this matter, especially so after Mr C told it that he didnt have a policy he could raise a new 
claim on. In order to explain why, I will look at how the claim was dealt with by Aviva in the 
first instance. 
Before I comment on the claim handling, I would explain that when an insurer repairs a 
customers property or possessions, it must complete a lasting repair. If it decides to cash 
settles the claim, it must provide the policyholder with sufficient funds for them to arrange a 
lasting repair. What lasting means will depend on what is being repaired and its expected 
lifespan. For example if a sofa was being repaired, a sofa would reasonably have a lifespan 
of five to ten years, so a repair would need to ensure that the sofa continued to be usable for 
the remainder of that period from when it was purchased. With a property, its life span is 
considerably longer and so a lasting repair would be expected to last a long period of time. 
Avivas experts determined that the subsidence to Mr Cs property was caused by clay 
shrinkage brought on by the proximity of a large oak tree on neighbouring land. Its experts 
determined that in order to stop the subsidence, the tree needed to be removed; that 
pruning, no matter how severe, wouldnt work in the long-term. However, the tree was not 
removed. So based on its own experts testimony, Aviva would have known at this point that 
any repairs that were done to the property wouldnt be lasting and would likely fail in the 
relatively short term. In light of this, Aviva shouldnt have moved the claim forward to 
settlement for the repairs, as it knew that the property was very unlikely to be stable.I asked Aviva for evidence of monitoring of the property. It provided six months of monitoring 
results taken before the tree was pollarded, but none after. So despite being aware the 
mitigation works needed hadnt been done, Aviva chose not to confirm that the property was 
stable. It also, at that point, chose not to complete the repairs to the property itself. Why it 
made this decision isnt clear from the file. However, the consequence of an insurer cash 
settling a claim is that typically it wouldnt be considered liable for any problems with the 
repairs that subsequently came to light. 
When Mr C contacted Aviva after noticing there was evidence of further movement in the 
property, Aviva responded by saying that Mr C should contact his current insurer. This would 
be the normal approach for a subsidence claim for a residential property, as there is an 
industry agreement in place that would mean the new insurer would deal with any new claim 
and, if appropriate, claim some or all costs it incurred back from the previous insurer. 
However, as this was a commercial policy, that agreement didnt apply. If Mr C had a new 
insurer, it may well have simply agreed with him that it was a continuation of the Aviva claim 
and sent him back to Aviva. 
That said, when Mr C told Aviva he didnt have any cover in place under which he could 
make a claim, and knowing that it hadnt mitigated the risk of the tree properly, I consider 
Aviva should have reopened its claim. It should do so now.
I also documented what I thought should be done to redress the situation.
Aviva should reopen the claim and complete an assessment of the current situation. Given 
how quickly the repairs failed, and that this was predicted by its own expert, I think it highly 
likely the cause of the continued damage is clay shrinkage caused by the same vegetation 
responsible for the earlier claim. However, Aviva is entitled to complete further investigations 
to ensure that is the cause, although it should expedite that process given how long this 
matter has been going on. 
If the tree is again found to be the cause of the subsidence, Aviva can make a further 
attempt to have it removed. However, Aviva should not allow this to cause undue delays to 
dealing with this matter, given it has been ongoing since 2013. If the third-party owner of the 
tree doesnt agree to remove it within three months of it being approached, Aviva should 
move to consideration of alternative ways to stabilise the property. it should then, in line with 
good industry practice, complete repairs to the property. 
In relation to the claim being recorded on Avivas own and any external databases, I dont 
consider the cost of its mistakes should be recorded against the claim. So when the eventual 
cost of the claim is recorded, the amount Aviva paid to Mr C for repairs in 2019 should be 
deducted, as should the cost of any repeated investigations or further attempts to persuade 
the third-party to remove the tree.
Mr C has very clearly been inconvenienced by Avivas handling of his claim and its refusal to 
reopen it when it should have. I consider Aviva should pay him £500 compensation in this 
regard.
Aviva didnt respond directly to my provisional decision, but rather forwarded its loss 
adjusters comments on it. The loss adjusters stated:
the oak tree the arborocultural report said needed to be removed had been pollarded 
because there was decay at the base. 
drainage repairs had been carried out.it didnt monitor after tree was pollarded because the damage to the property had been 
minor. In its expert opinion, pollarding coupled with the completed drainage repairs, was 
felt to be enough to address the movement in the property.
it doesnt believe that monitoring would have made a difference to the situation. It was 
told that the repairs had failed 2.7 years after the tree was pollarded. This is a significant 
period of time and it should be noted that if the movement had not stopped the cracks 
would have opened up long before the date the failed repairs were reported. 
In its opinion, given the damage didnt return until approximately three years after the 
tree was pollarded, monitoring it for six months wouldnt have revealed movement in any 
event.
2018 was a surge year for subsidence when claims increased fourfold, so it would have 
expected any recurring damage from the oak to have made itself known during that year. 
It also commented that 2019 was also a dry year.
It considers the damage is new and not a continuance of the previous claim. It believes it 
is likely due to one of the trees identified as a future risk in the arboricultural report. As 
such, it doesnt agree that the claim should be re-opened and believed Aviva should 
challenge my conclusions.
Mr C said that while he appreciated my comments, the compensation award was not 
adequate, given the number of years it had been since the claim had been made. He 
suggested that £1,000 would be a more appropriate amount. He also commented that 
insurance companies are wealthy institutions and need to be penalised for their errors, 
especially when it affects the little guy in the street. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what the loss adjusters have said about the mitigation works completed 
and the fact that it decided the property would be stable after it repaired the drains and the 
oak tree was pollarded. However, I note that it has not commented on how it came to that 
conclusion, given it had concluded that in order to stabilise the property the oak tree needed 
to be removed. It has specifically stated that pruning it, which pollarding would be considered 
to be, would not be adequate mitigation action. So it remains that Aviva didnt complete the 
mitigation actions it had determined needed to be done. Having failed to do so, it then failed 
to take any action to ensure the reduced mitigation works had been enough. 
In relation to the comments that it took nearly three years for further movement to become 
apparent, I would remind Aviva that subsidence movement tends to be relatively slow. In 
addition, pollarding the oak tree would have temporarily reduced its water requirements, so 
what movement had been happening during the trees active growing season, would have 
slowed. So any continued movement would have resulted in very small changes to the width 
of the cracks in the property. It is unlikely that a lay person, such as Mr C, would be able to 
tell by eye if the open cracks in his property were changing in size and movement was 
progressing. As such, it would not have been until the cracks were repaired and those 
repairs failed, that he would have been aware of further movement. 
I would also remind Aviva that while the tree was pollarded in 2017, it was not until the 
spring of 2019 that Aviva paid Mr C any money. He would then have had to arrange the 
repairs. It was around a year later that he reported the repairs had failed. So Avivas 
comment about the stability of the property being proven by the lack of further damage 
during the dry summers of 2018 and 2019 isnt reasonable, as Aviva didnt monitor as I 
would have expected it to when it had failed to complete the mitigation works it had determined needed doing. 
The repairs failed in the first growing season after they were completed, and in light of the 
fact that the mitigation works Aviva had determined were necessary to stabilise the property 
werent completed my conclusions about Avivas behaviour remain the same. I remain 
satisfied that the redress detailed below in putting things right is appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Mr C has said that the monetary compensation I awarded was insufficient because the claim 
had taken ten years to this point. I can understand what he is saying, but the complaint he 
asked this service to consider was not about the overall timescales involved in his claim, but 
rather Avivas actions when Mr C informed it that the property was still moving. I remain 
satisfied that compensation of £500 is appropriate in the circumstances.
If Mr C wants to complain about how the claim was handled up to the spring of 2019 when 
the cash settlement was made, he will need to raise that as a separate complaint with Aviva 
in the first instance. I would also confirm that this service doesnt make punitive awards in 
order to punish a financial business. Policing the behaviour of financial businesses is the role 
of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Putting things right
Aviva should re-open the claim and complete an assessment of the current situation. Given 
how quickly the repairs failed, and that this was predicted to happen by its own expert, I think 
it highly likely the cause of the continued damage is clay shrinkage caused by the same 
vegetation responsible for the earlier claim. However, Aviva is entitled to complete further 
investigations to ensure that is the cause, although it should expedite that process given how 
long this matter has been going on. 
If the tree is again found to be the cause of the subsidence, Aviva can make a further 
attempt to have it removed. However, Aviva should not allow this to cause undue delays in 
dealing with this matter, given it has been ongoing since 2013. If the third-party owner of the 
tree doesnt agree to remove it within three months of it being approached, Aviva should 
move to consideration of alternative ways to stabilise the property. It should then, in line with 
good industry practice, complete repairs to the property. 
In relation to the claim being recorded on Avivas own and any external databases, I dont 
consider the cost of Avivas mistakes should be recorded against the claim. So when the 
eventual cost of the claim is recorded, the amount Aviva paid to Mr C for repairs in 2019 
should be deducted, as should the cost of any repeated investigations or further attempts to 
persuade the third-party to remove the tree.
Aviva should pay Mr C £500 for the inconvenience this matter has caused him.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to undertake 
the actions detailed above under putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman