DRN-2841306
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, sent her a credit card 
with a £3,100 limit while she was in an IVA.
What happened
Mrs D received a credit card from Barclays with a £3,100 while she was in an IVA. Mrs D 
wasnt happy about is, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ds complaint. They noted that they hadnt issued Mrs D with a new 
credit account, but rather had sent Mrs D a replacement card for an existing credit account 
that she held. 
Barclays also noted that Mrs D had two Barclaycard accounts, and that the other account 
was listed with Barclays as being part of an IVA. However, because of a slight difference in 
the names on the accounts, the two accounts werent linked. This meant that the second 
account didnt have a record of the IVA being in place. 
Barclays therefore felt that they hadnt acted unreasonably by sending the replacement card, 
although they did recognise that Mrs Ds circumstances were such that the receipt of the 
card might have been distressing for her. So, Barclays credited Mrs D with £100 and offered 
to close the credit account  which had a zero balance.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Barclays explanation of 
what had happened was reasonable, and that the payment of £100 made to Mrs D by 
Barclays represented a fair resolution to what had happened. So, they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable, given Mrs Ds financial circumstances, that the receipt of the 
replacement card might have been distressing for her, especially given that it wasnt 
recognised by Mrs D as a replacement card at that time, but rather was thought to be a new 
credit account which Mrs D felt was sent to her to entice her into getting into more debt at a 
time when she already in an IVA and making monthly payments towards it.
But Barclays have been able to demonstrate that this was a misunderstanding and that the 
card that Mrs D received was sent automatically to replace the previous card, which had 
expired, on the already existing credit account. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs Ds two Barclays credit accounts werent linked, which would have 
made Barclays that the account cardholder was in an IVA  as was correctly recorded on 
Mrs Ds other Barclays credit account. And indeed, Barclays have confirmed that it is highly 
likely that the replacement card wouldnt have been sent to Mrs D, had the fact that she was 
in an IVA been correctly recorded on that account.
But Mrs Ds two accounts werent linked, and while it would certainly have been preferable 
for this not to have been the case, Barclays explanation that this was because the names on 
the account were slightly different and so didnt automatically link, seems reasonable to me. 
Given these circumstances, it would be expected by this service that Barclays would act to 
correct the oversight of Mrs Ds two accounts not being linked, as well as make an offer of 
compensation to Mrs D in light of the upset that this matter might have caused. 
I think that Barclays have done that here. Theyve explained to this service that theyve 
offered to close the credit account in question  which at the time that the replacement card 
was sent to Mrs D had a zero balance  and theyve also made a payment of £100 to 
compensate Mrs D for any distress and inconvenience she might have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and reasonable by 
one party not considered as such by another. But the payment of £100 that Barclays have 
already made here does feel fair to me, considering the circumstances, and I must note that 
its commensurate with what this service would expect, given what happened here.
Im aware that Mrs D suspects that the sending of the replacement card by Barclays wasnt 
the simple oversight that Barclays allude, but rather was an attempt by Barclays to tempt her 
into getting further into debt, especially given that the card was received in the run up to 
Christmas. Im not convinced by Mrs Ds argument here, and Im satisfied from the 
information provided to this service by Barclays that this was a case of a replacement card 
being issued automatically on an account following the expiration of the previous card.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs D was wanting here, but it follows that Im 
satisfied that the response that Barclays have already issued in response to her complaint  
including the payment of £100 compensation  does represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint.  
This means that I wont be upholding upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any 
further action at this time. I hope that Mrs D can understand, given everything I have 
explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman