DRN-3025923
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that a claim made under her Fairmead Insurance Limited home insurance 
policy was declined and her policy voided (cancelled as though it had never existed). Mrs T 
is also unhappy about how she was spoken to by a call handler at Fairmead when 
discussing the claim. 
What happened
In 2015 Mrs T arranged a buildings and contents insurance policy with Fairmead. The policy 
provided total contents cover of £73,130, with a high-risk property limit of £14,640 within that 
figure. Mrs T says that this covered her contents and high-risk items at the time. The policy 
renewed each year thereafter. 
In April 2019 Mrs T discovered a considerable amount of jewellery (49 items) had been 
stolen. She believed some workmen shed had in her home in the summer of 2018 had likely 
stolen the items. She contacted the business the workmen had been employed by and when 
she didnt get anywhere with it, she reported the loss to the police. Mrs T also made a claim 
to Fairmead. 
The recording of the claim call detailed the suspected circumstances of the loss and how it 
had been discovered. The discovery came about because Mrs Ts niece was getting married 
and Mrs Ts mother had left a gift (of jewellery) to be passed on to her. There was then a 
discussion about the value of the loss and some possibilities were given as to value. The 
call-handler asked if all the jewellery belonged to Mrs T. She answered yes, but then 
immediately clarified that some belonged to family members  items that had belonged to 
her mother that were to be passed to that ladys grandchildren. Mrs T was told Fairmead 
needed to know what the value of the stolen items was, and she needed to provide more 
information before the claim could be moved forward. Mrs T has told us that she understood 
this to mean that Fairmead wanted details and values for all the items that were stolen, 
including those that didnt belong to Mrs T personally. 
Mrs T then approached a local jeweller to provide an estimate of the value of all the stolen 
items based on photographs of her jewellery and a description of the other items. She sent 
this to Fairmead. The total estimate for the stolen jewellery was slightly over £118,000.
Farimead arranged for a firm of loss adjusters to assess the claim. It was determined by the 
loss adjuster that the total contents value was £194,857 and the high-risk sum assured 
should have been £118,000. Fairmead said that the maximum contents cover it provided 
was £100,000, so had it known the true value of Mrs Ts contents, it would never have 
offered her a policy. In light of this, Fairmead decided to void the policy. It thought Mrs T had 
been reckless in the way she presented incorrect information when applying for the policy, 
so it said it wouldnt be refunding the premiums she had paid, and they would be used to 
cover its expenses. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with Fairmeads decision and she complained. Fairmead responded to 
the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It remained satisfied that Mrs T hadnt answered the 
questions correctly when shed taken out the policy. 
As Mrs T remained unhappy with the response from Farimead, she asked this service to 
consider her complaint. She said the loss adjusters assessment of the value of the contents 
of her home was wrong and that some of the items belonged to other people who lived in the 
property and were insured elsewhere. She also told us some of the jewellery didnt belong to 
her, but was family jewellery and had been passed to her keeping sometime earlier for a 
celebratory event. The event had been postponed, and she had stored the jewellery in a 
locked metal box, along with her own jewellery, which was then placed in a locked drawer. 
The last time shed checked the items was in the spring of 2018. She said shed told 
Fairmead this from the outset and that she knows the jewellery that didnt belong to her 
wasnt insured  she just wanted her own jewellery paid for. She also raised concerns about 
how she had been spoken to by Fairmead after it had made its claim decision in that the 
member of staff showed little empathy.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. However, she didnt recommend it be 
upheld as she was satisfied that if Mrs T had answered the questions about the value of her 
contents and valuables correctly, Fairmead wouldnt have given her a policy. In relation to 
Mrs Ts concerns about how she was spoken to by Fairmead when her claim was declined, 
she thought more empathy could have been shown, but she didnt think it had done anything 
wrong.
Mrs T didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for consideration. She said she didnt think the complaint had been 
addressed fully and didnt think the outcome was fair. Mrs T highlighted that the valuation 
done by the loss adjuster was just an estimate made by an individual walking around the 
property sticking their pencil in the air valuing items. She believes many of the items were 
over valued and asked whether that was fair.  It was also reiterated that many of the items 
stolen were not owned or insured by her, but Mrs T had been asked to provide an estimate 
of everything stolen, not just what she was claiming for.
Our investigator responded to Mrs Ts further comments. In relation to the loss adjusters 
assessment of what the sum assured should have been, the investigator pointed out that the 
value of the jewellery alone significantly exceeded the sum assured Mrs T had selected, so 
even if the estimate of the value of the rest of the contents wasnt right, the contents were 
still very much underinsured. She asked for clarification as to why Mrs T thought the 
complaint hadnt been fully addressed, but no response was provided.
The complaint was passed to me to consider and I asked for further information from Mrs T. 
She explained that when her mother died her jewellery had been worth around £90,000 at 
the time and much of it was to be distributed among that ladys grandchildren. Mrs T was the 
executor of her mothers estate and until 2017 the jewellery had been kept in a safety 
deposit box with a high-street bank. In 2017 the bank closed down this facility and the 
jewellery was retrieved and left for safe keeping with Mrs Ts brother along with other items 
of family jewellery. When Mrs Ts niece (and one of the beneficiaries) was to be married in 
2018, the jewellery was returned to Mrs T so that the inheritance could be passed on. 
Unfortunately, the wedding was postponed, so Mrs T placed the jewellery, along with her 
own, in a place in her home that she considered was safe.  
Once the clarification about the circumstances surrounding the jewellery was obtained our 
investigator provided that explanation to Fairmead and provided it with the supporting 
documentation Mrs T had given us. Fairmead didnt change its conclusions about the claim. 
It effectively said that Mrs T hadnt proven all of the items stolen werent hers. It went on to 
say that it was the responsibility of an executor to settle an estate in a timely manner and 
questioned why Mrs T hadnt done so, given it had been several years since her mothers 
death. It also drew our attention to Mrs T having told the loss adjuster who interviewed her at the time of the claim, that the items had been in the house since purchase/inheritance. 
Fairmead subsequently provided a copy of the witness statement it referred to. 
The witness statement documented Most of the items that are on the list are gifts to me and 
inheritance. I would have purchased some of them myself.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 August 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below are extracts.
Having done so, I think much of the problems with this case may well come down to both 
sides making assumptions at an early stage. Mrs T told Fairmead about the loss, and 
despite her telling it that some of the items werent hers as they belonged to other family 
members and some were an inheritance to be handed on to younger members of the family, 
Fairmead assumed she was claiming for all the lost items.  On the other hand, Mrs T 
appears to have assumed that Fairmead would register that shed said some items werent 
hers, that this meant they werent insured and, therefore, she wasnt claiming for them.
Fairmead has suggested that Mrs T confirmed to its loss adjuster that all the jewellery had 
been in her home since it was inherited. I have reviewed the statement made and I dont 
believe thats what it says. It says some of the jewellery was an inheritance. However, it 
doesnt give a timescale; whether Mrs T took immediate custody of the items or even whose 
inheritance they were. 
I accept Fairmeads comment that being the owner of a safety deposit box doesnt evidence 
what was stored in it. So it is possible that the jewellery wasnt stored in that way until 2017. 
However, this type of storage arrangement is usually used for valuable or significant items, 
be that monetary value or otherwise. Mrs T has said the jewellery was stored in her safety 
deposit box, and given the general purpose of such arrangements, I see no reason to doubt 
Mrs Ts word in this respect. 
Fairmead has also suggested that Mrs T shouldnt have still been holding items that were to 
be inherited by younger members of the family, as it had been years since her mothers 
death. I would acknowledge that it is usually the role of an executor to settle an estate as 
quickly as possible. However, I dont think its unusual for personal items, such as jewellery, 
to be handed to a beneficiary at an important point in life, be that attaining a particular age or 
upon a life event, such as a graduation or on marriage. The latter being quite a tradition in 
some cultures. As such, the fact that it had been some years since Mrs Ts mothers death 
doesnt, I think, cast doubt on her explanation of the origin of some of the stolen items. 
Fairmead has voided Mrs Ts policy because it believes she misled it when she took the 
policy out in 2015, as she didnt tell it about the quantity or value of the valuables she had in 
the house. As I have said above, I see no reason to doubt Mrs T stored the jewellery in a 
bank prior to 2017. As such, I am not persuaded that she did misrepresent the situation 
when she took the policy out. 
She has also said that the items were stored elsewhere until close to the planned date of her 
nieces wedding in the spring of 2018. So until that point, Mrs T couldnt have declared the 
items to Fairmead. The question then becomes whether Mrs T should have declared the 
items when she did take custody of them.
Insurance policies will have a condition normally referred to as a change in risk clause, it 
means that if something material changes in relation to the property being insured, the 
policyholder should inform the insurance company. However, where consumer policies are 
involved, we would usually only expect a policyholder to do this when prompted in some 
way, such as at renewal, or if the change was very significant, such as an extension being built. I am not persuaded the change was such that, if the items had been Mrs Ts and she 
expected them to be covered by the insurance policy, she would have known to declare the 
items to Fairmead when she took custody of them. Indeed, that would only have happened 
after the loss likely happened in the October of 2018 when the policy next renewed. I also 
note that Mrs T didnt consider the items being brought into the property, as they didnt 
belong to her, were covered by the policy at all. In those circumstances I dont think it 
unreasonable that she wouldnt have thought to tell Fairmead about them. So I dont think 
there was any misrepresentation in 2018 either.
I can understand Fairmead had concerns about this claim, given it hadnt picked up on the 
fact Mrs T didnt own many of the items lost and wasnt attempting to claim for them. 
However, I think the conclusion it reached was wrong and it shouldnt have voided the 
insurance policy.
When awarding redress we aim to place a consumer in as close to the position they would 
have been in, but for the error on the part of the financial business. In this case, the error 
was voiding Mrs Ts policy and, thereby, not considering her claim. As such, the appropriate 
redress in this case would be for Fairmead to reinstate Mrs Ts insurance policy and 
consider her claim. Our investigator will forward the loss list, with the items Mrs T identified 
as hers highlighted, and the accompanying photographic evidence. Alongside those actions, 
Fairmead should remove all record of the voidance from its internal databases and any 
external ones it reported it to.
It is clear that this matter has caused Mrs T quite a lot of upset. Given that could have been 
avoided had Fairmead listened to Mrs T initially and asked some quite simple questions 
early on in the claim, I consider it should pay Mrs T £500 to compensate her in this regard.
Mrs T accepted my conclusions in principle, but she didnt think that Fairmead should be 
given the opportunity to consider the claim further. Given the time that had elapsed since the 
claim had been made and the clear evidence of the loss shed provided, she thought I 
should simply tell Fairmead to pay the claim. In addition, she asked that I reconsider the 
compensation payment and make an aware to reflect the amount of upset Fairmead had 
caused her.
Fairmead didnt accept my provisional decision.  It said that a trained fraud investigator 
interviewed Mrs T and she had stated that shed come into possession of the jewellery in 
2010. There was no mention of it being stored elsewhere. She was told during that 
conversation that having a large quantity of jewellery in her home would imperil her claim 
and policy  she was invited to comment but didnt mention that the jewellery had only been 
in her home for a short period. It issued its decision and again Mrs T didnt mention that the 
jewellery had only been in her home for a short period and, as far as Fairmead could tell, it 
wasnt mentioned to this service when the complaint was made either. Fairmead argued 
Mrs T saying that the items came into her possession in 2010 undermines the idea that the 
items were stored anywhere other than the insured address at any time. It suggested that if it 
were the case that the items had been stored elsewhere, Mrs T had withheld facts from it.
In addition, Fairmead introduced the concept behind a police caution and the principle that 
not to mentioning facts later relied upon can harm a defence. It said that an explanation had 
been provided at the last possible juncture, which contradicted pervious testimony, and as 
such should not be taken at face value. It asked that if this point was to be upheld, it was 
allowed to investigate the circumstances of the ownership and location of the jewellery as 
part of the claim consideration.
Fairmead then went on to say that even if it was accepted that the jewellery had first been 
stored in Mrs Ts home in 2017, she had been required to tell it about that change; both at the time and at the policy renewal in 2018. Mrs T didnt do as she should have. It was also of 
the opinion, in response to my comments about mid-term change in risk notifications, that 
the addition of £90,000 of jewellery would be as significant as a property owner building an 
extension, so she should have known to tell it mid-term. It felt that Mrs Ts decision to place 
the items in safe places (both in the form of a safety deposit box and that in her home) 
showed a recognition of the need to protect the items. As such, it questioned that she 
wouldnt have felt the need to inform her insurer of the change in risk.  It reiterated that had it 
known about the value of the jewellery, it wouldnt have renewed the policy, and Mrs T would 
have gone elsewhere and wouldnt have suffered a non-insured loss.
In addition, Fairmead said that it was aware that Mrs T might not be able to claim for some of 
the items, but it had a duty to investigate the value of the contents of the home, not just the 
contents she called her own. The objective of its investigation was partially to understand the 
physical risk at the address and establish if that risk exceeded the realms of its accepted 
business. It said that it was sure that I would appreciate that even if potentially partly 
uninsured, the presence of certain items in the home can fundamentally change the risk a 
policy presents. It confirmed that the presence of high concentrations of gold bear an 
increased risk of burglary, which was demonstrated by the loss suffered at Mrs Ts home. 
In relation to the ownership of the items from the estate, it said that Mrs T had a 
responsibility for those items until the will was executed in full. It suggested that Mrs T might 
have had a responsibility to insurer the items, especially as she was holding them for such a 
long period. Fairmead highlighted that its policy defined contents as Household goods, 
personal belongings owned by you or for which you are legally responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Fairmead has asked that it be able to investigate the whereabouts of the jewellery in the 
period before the claim, before it considers the claim. After I received the case, I asked for 
some clarification on exact details of how the jewellery had come to be in Mrs Ts home and 
more detail about the circumstances emerged. I dont think this information only became 
available at that time because Mrs T was hiding things or that her story changed, but rather it 
was because the appropriate questions hadnt been asked before. The statement from the 
interview with Mrs T shows clearly that the interviewer believed all the items belonged to 
Mrs T, or at the very least she was claiming for them all. 
However, the call recording from the time the claim was reported made it clear that only 
some of the items belonged to her. Fairmead simply chose not to explore this subject with 
Mrs T. Had it done so, I am satisfied Mrs T would most likely have provided the clarification 
she did when this service asked pertinent questions. I would also highlight that an insurer is 
still required to ask the questions it wants answers to at claim stage, just as it is at 
application stage. It is not reasonable for it to assume a consumer understands what 
information is relevant and for them to be expected to volunteer that information. As such, 
given Fairmead had ample opportunity to explore these issues during its investigation, I dont 
consider it would be appropriate for the claim to be delayed further.
That said, I also dont consider it would be reasonable for me to simply order Farimead to 
settle the claim for the items Mrs T is claiming for. The reason being that this is the first time 
it has been given details of the items being claimed for and the photographic evidence to 
support their ownership. It has a right to consider this evidence to determine if it supports 
ownership of the items.Fairmead has commented on the matter of whether Mrs T should have declared the items 
when they entered her property in 2018 and later at the 2018 renewal. Given the items were 
stolen before the 2018 renewal, and so the claim was made on the 2017 policy, whether the 
items should or shouldnt have been declared at the renewal isnt really relevant. That said, 
the statement of fact provided at that time said that the the full cost of replacing the contents 
of the property insured ... does not exceed the sum assured. This is reliant on the consumer 
considering the items as contents of the property. I note Fairmead has referred back to the 
policy definition of contents, but thats not something most consumers would think of 
checking at renewal. So at renewal the answer to the question would have been subjective 
and Mrs T has maintained throughout that the items were in her home as a temporary 
measure and she didnt believe they were covered by the policy, i.e. not considered as part 
of her contents.
Fairmead has suggested that Mrs T should have viewed the entry into her home of the 
jewellery, due to its value, in the same way as she would have a significant alternation to the 
structure of the property. As such she should have known to contact Fairmead in the middle 
of the policy year. It has also pointed out that the storage of the jewellery at the property 
materially changed the risk the property represented. I can agree on the last point, but that 
doesnt alter the point that we would only usually expect a consumer to make a mid-term 
declaration if the change would have been significant enough to warrant it. Fairmead 
considers that taking £90,000 of jewellery into the home would have been that significant. I 
have, however, referred back to the initial claim call, in which its clear that Mrs T didnt know 
how much the items were worth. In addition, at that time, she didnt think the jewellery would 
be remaining in the property for any length of time. 
As Fairmead has commented about Mrs Ts obligations as executor, I would comment at this 
point that whilst the items belonging to the estate would have needed to have a price 
associated with them when the value of the estate was declared for tax purposes, that 
doesnt mean the items were actually valued and Mrs T knew their value. As for Fairmeads 
comments about the possible obligations placed on Mrs T to insure the items, it would 
appear that if there was such an obligation placed on her in the will, Mrs T didnt consider 
her home insurance policy provided for that obligation.  
I dont disagree with Fairmead that it had a duty to investigate the circumstances of the 
claim. However, its duty involved it listening to its customer and investigating all the 
circumstances of the claim. I would refer it to my earlier comments in this regard. 
Before issuing my provisional decision I carefully considered the upset Fairmeads handling 
of the claim had caused Mrs T. While I have considered her further comments, I remain 
satisfied that £500 is the appropriate amount to award in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Fairmead should reinstate Mrs Ts insurance policy and consider her claim. Our investigator 
will forward the loss list detailing the items Mrs T identified as hers highlighted, and the 
accompanying photographic evidence. Alongside those actions Fairmead should remove all 
record of the voidance from its internal databased and any external ones it reported it to.
Fairmead should also pay Mrs T £500 compensation for the upset she was caused by its 
handling of the claim.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to 
undertake the actions detailed above in putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 
21 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman