DRN-3689024
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy as he 
feels it unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
Mr M has a solicitor supporting him in this complaint. Ill refer to him as Mr A.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Advantage are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to Advantage in this decision.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Advantage was contacted by a third party who alleged that Mr M had driven into their 
stationary car and driven off. So it wrote out to Mr M on a number of occasions asking him to 
make contact in order to discuss the claim. It also text and called Mr M about the claim but 
he didnt respond so it went onto cancel his policy giving the relevant notice and eventually 
settled the claim.
Mr M complained to Advantage about this as he wasnt aware that his policy had been 
cancelled until he was pulled over by the police. He said he was aware Advantage had been 
trying to talk to him, but hed asked them to speak to his solicitor Mr A. Mr M said he thought 
Advantage were actually trying to talk to him about another accident he had been involved in 
around August 2020 (Mr A was also representing Mr M for this). 
Advantage responded to say it hadnt done anything wrong and that it was compelled to 
cancel the policy as Mr M wasnt cooperating. And said it clearly communicated the 
cancellation to Mr M at his home address and couldnt be held responsible for his lack of 
contact. As Mr M still wasnt happy about this he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and upheld his complaint. Overall, he felt that Mr 
M had cooperated with Advantage and the cancellation of his policy was unfair. This was 
because he felt Mr A didnt realise Advantage was contacting him about the November 2020 
incident, as opposed to the earlier incident. And there was a breakdown in communication 
about this when Advantage spoke to Mr M about the claim, partly due to a language barrier. 
So our investigator felt that Advantage should have contacted his solicitor about the 
accident.
But Advantage didnt agree. It said it had tried to contact Mr Ms solicitor, but the email 
bounced back as Mr M had provided an incorrect email address. And it had no obligation to 
call the solicitor as it didnt have any authority for this in relation to the November incident. 
So the matter has been passed to me for review.
I outlined, in a previous provisional decision, that I was minded to accept Advantages 
position. Although I had some sympathy with Mr M and the position he found himself I didnt 
think Advantage had done anything wrong. It had simply followed its processes and sent Mr 
M a number of emails and called him explaining that he needed to make contact about the 
second incident, or his policy would be cancelled. And it had tried to contact Mr Ms solicitor, 
even though it didnt have authority to do so for this incident, but Mr M had provided a 
slightly incorrect email address for his solicitor.
Overall, I was minded not to uphold Mr Ms complaint as I thought Advantage had acted 
reasonably and done all it could in trying to tell Mr M that his policy would be cancelled as Mr 
M should have taken steps to cooperate and keep his policy live at that stage.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage didnt comment on my provisional decision while Mr A (Mr Ms solicitor) said he 
disagreed for a number of reasons and said again that English wasnt Mr Ms first language. 
And that Mr M simply wasnt aware of the second incident and thought Advantage was 
making contact in relation to the first incident. And that Mr M had referred the letters, calls 
and emails to his solicitor in order to advance. Mr A, importantly, pointed to a number of 
telephone calls he had with Advantage during the period that led up to cancellation and just 
after Mr M was stopped by the police.
Although a number of telephone calls were already on the file they were solely between Mr 
M and Advantage, so I asked Advantage to provide copies of these further calls with Mr A. 
And having listened to those calls Im minded to now uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Advantage provided copies of Mr Ms solicitors call from before the policy cancelled in early 
December 2020. Mr A called Advantage on Mr Ms behalf as he couldnt understand what 
was happening; why Advantage were contacting him instead of his solicitor; and he believed 
contact was solely about the earlier incident. Mr M and his solicitor werent aware of the 
second incident and so they couldnt understand why there would be a suggestion that the 
policy would be cancelled. Having listened to this call from early December 2020 (between 
Mr Ms solicitor and Advantage) I think an opportunity was lost to make it clear to Mr Ms 
solicitor that there was a second incident (which would have clarified everything and 
prevented the cancellation). And secondly the call taker made it clear that Advantage would 
correspond with Mr Ms solicitor solely about the second incident and generally.
The call taker made it clear that Advantage would contact the solicitor if anything further was 
required. And Mr Ms solicitor made it clear that Mr M struggled with English, as it wasnt his 
first language, and that Advantages contact was upsetting Mr M as he couldnt understand 
what was happening. And as it was made abundantly clear in the call to Mr A that any 
contact about his client would go through him I think Advantage should have communicated 
the cancellation to Mr A as well. And Mr A had a reasonable expectation that any further 
problems or issues would be directed to him as that is what the call taker told him.
Furthermore, Mr Ms solicitor contacted Advantage with his client after his policy was 
cancelled and his car was impounded. It was only at this stage that it became clear to Mr M 
and his solicitor that there was a second incident. However, Advantage wouldnt discuss this 
with Mr Ms solicitor as it wanted written authority on file from Mr M. And it wouldnt even 
discuss the matter with Mr M when it was his policy and he couldve assisted Advantage with 
its enquiries and provided clarification around the alleged second incident.
Given this further evidence Im minded to change my position. I now think the fair and 
reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is to uphold the 
complaint and revert back to the investigators original position. I say this as I think it is clear, given the further evidence that has come to light, that Advantage should have communicated 
with Mr Ms solicitor who was clearly struggling to understand what had happened and 
wasnt aware of a further incident. And as Advantage had all Mr As contact details on its 
systems it would have been easy to double check his email details when it tried to contact 
him, and the email bounced back. I know Advantage simply tried to follow its normal 
cancellation procedure but given the telephone call with Mr A and the fact that it had Mr As 
full contact details on file I think the cancellation was unfair.
So, Advantage should look to put Mr M back into the position he would have been but for its 
error. I do appreciate it sent a lot of communication which wasnt replied to or acknowledged 
by Mr M. And Ill factor that in when thinking about the compensation. But, Im persuaded Mr 
M genuinely believed all issues were being dealt with by Mr A  and Ive seen emails 
between the two which confirm this. And, as discussed above, Mr A was clearly trying to 
communicate with Advantage or trying to get Advantage to deal with him direct.
Looking to put Mr M back into the position he would have been will involve putting right the 
financial loss Mr M has incurred  the Police impound costs as that wouldnt have happened 
but for Advantages error, along with 8% interest as hes paid that already. Advantage also 
need to remove any record of a cancellation from its systems or any external systems. It also 
needs to provide a letter of indemnity so Mr M can speak to his new insurer about them 
rerating his premiums, and so he can provide this to the Police or any other interested 
parties if necessary.
I also think compensation is appropriate. Advantage had the information and ability to handle 
things in a better way than it did. In fact, it may have been able to step in after Mr Ms car 
was impounded had it have spoken to Mr M during Mr As second call which would have 
prevented a lot of the further problems Mr M faced. But I also cant ignore the fact it did 
make a lot of effort to try and speak to Mr M. Taking everything into account, I think it would 
be fair to pay £400 compensation as opposed to the £200 our Investigator recommended. I 
say this as it must have been embarrassing to have been stopped by the police and have his 
car impounded. And the general impact of dealing with the Police, the impound of his car 
and the difficulty in getting new insurance mustve been stressful and inconvenient.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr Ms solicitor accepted the position 
outlined and said that he had nothing further to add. 
While Advantage said it didnt agree with the decision. It said again that it couldnt share the 
cancellation information with Mr Ms solicitor as he wasnt authorised to speak on Mr Ms 
behalf in relation to this claim. It accepted that Mr M was authorised for the first claim but not 
in relation to the second claim which led to the cancellation. 
Although Advantage accepted that it did tell Mr Ms solicitor that it would contact him and 
keep him updated it said that it simply didnt have the authority to discuss the second claim 
and cancellation with Mr Ms solicitor. And Advantage also highlighted again that it sent Mr M 
multiple communications with the correct claim reference and date which it feels Mr M 
should have shared with his solicitor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.But having reconsidered everything again Im still of the view that the complaint should now 
be upheld. 
Ive considered Advantages further representations which, in the main, have already been 
raised and considered previously, but Im afraid they dont change my position. Advantage 
has said that it didnt have authority to speak to Mr Ms solicitor about the second incident. 
However, Mr M asked Advantage to contact his solicitor when it called him about the second 
incident. The calls didnt really make it clear to Mr M that Advantage was talking about a 
second claim, but it was clear that Mr M wanted it to talk to his solicitor about everything and 
it was clear he was confused. And Advantage agreed to do this but, unfortunately, it took 
down the email address incorrectly and didnt check its own systems to verify the address 
which it already had on record. Had it have contacted Mr Ms solicitor this position would 
have been avoided. Plus, Advantages call taker told Mr Ms solicitor that it would contact 
him about the cancellation letters he had received when he called up to clarify what was 
going on. 
So I think it is clear that there was a misunderstanding here about the second incident. And 
that Mr A expected all communication about the policy to be directed to him, given English 
wasnt Mr Ms first language and he was struggling with the communications he was 
receiving. 
Furthermore, as I outlined above, there was a second call between Mr A and Advantage 
when Mr M was sat with him. It only became clear in this call to Mr A and Mr M that there 
was a second incident and yet Advantage wouldnt discuss the claim with Mr A, even though 
his client was with him and authority could have been given. Indeed, it wouldnt even speak 
to Mr M about his own policy and about the claim at that time. Had Advantage have 
discussed the position with Mr M during the second call, which I would have expected it to, 
then things could have been put right at this stage. And it would have been easy to gain 
authority from Mr M to do this or to simply speak to Mr M at this time.
Given all of this, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
outlined above. And Advantage should look to put Mr M back into the position he should 
have been but for the errors outlined. I do accept that it sent a lot of communication which 
wasnt replied to. But Im persuaded that Mr M wasnt aware of the second incident, due in 
part to the language barrier, and that he thought Advantage was dealing with his solicitor (Mr 
A) about any issues it raised. And it is clear that Mr A was trying to communicate with 
Advantage so I feel Advantage should take the steps outlined below to put things right.
Putting things right
I require Advantage to:
refund Mr Ms £170 Police impound fee;
pay 8% simple interest from the date he paid this, to the date of settlement;
remove any record of the cancellation from internal or external databases; 
provide a letter of indemnity to Mr M to explain it wasnt his fault his insurance 
was cancelled;
only charge Mr M for his time on cover and waive any charges caused by the 
cancellation adding 8% simple interest; and
pay Mr M £400 compensation.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to take the steps outlined in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman