DRN-3712912
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with 247 Money Group Limited (247MG).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs D acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then 247MG, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs D. The car here was 
already about six years old and had already completed over 88,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to have quite a bit of wear and tear present.
Section 9 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) explains that:
(1) Every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory.
But it goes on to say:
(4) The term mentioned in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the quality 
of the goods unsatisfactory
(a) which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract is made.
Mrs D was made aware of the problem with the air conditioning before she took receipt of 
the vehicle. The Pre Delivery Inspection (PDI) report said the air conditioning was weak. So, 
I dont think it would be fair to consider the car of unsatisfactory quality because of that fault, 
even though I understand the fault may have been more serious than was first thought. 
And, as it was that fault that Mrs D sought to invoke her short term right to reject the car 
through I dont think 247MG were wrong to refuse her request. I note the dealership did try to 
repair the air conditioning problem for Mrs D anyway. I can see that Mrs D has suggested 
that repair wasnt successful, but I dont think there is evidence of that, and I think Mrs D 
would have been likely to raise the issue again with 247MG if that was the case.
Its clear that Mrs D did experience problems with the car in late October 2021 and that the 
business repaired a fault with one of the injectors. The relevant legislation explains that if the 
fault occurs within the first six months we are to assume it was present at the point of supply, 
when 247MG were responsible for the cars quality. So, at that point the business needed to 
resolve the problem for Mrs D, and I can see they did so and that they offered to provide a 
little over £400 in compensation for the time the car was off the road.
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault occurs after six months we are to assume the 
fault wasnt present when the car was supplied, and it is therefore not the business 
responsibility to resolve. So, when the car broke down again in late February 2022 the onus 
was on Mrs D to demonstrate the fault with the different injector was present or developing 
when the car was supplied to her. Im not persuaded that Mrs D has been able to provide 
any evidence of that.
Mrs D had been able to drive the car for about 3,000 at that point and I think its likely any 
fault with that injector would have shown itself before then. 
So, I dont think 247MG need to take any further action here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman