DRN-3389218
The complaint
Mr W complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) partially declined his 
home insurance claim. 
RSA were not the insurers at the point in time that Mr W took out the policy but, for ease, I 
will refer to all actions and comments as those of RSA. 
What happened
Mr W had a renters home insurance policy with RSA that he had first taken out in 
April 2016. Mr Ws home was unfortunately burgled in mid-June 2018 and a number of items 
of musical equipment, as well as a laptop and tablet, were stolen. So, Mr W submitted a 
claim to RSA.  
As part of assessing the claim, RSAs loss adjusters visited Mr W at his home in June and 
July 2018. RSA said it closed the claim in 2019 because of lack of contact from Mr W.  
Mr W contacted RSA in September 2020 to check on the progress of the claim. He then 
complained in around June 2021 about the handling of his claim. In his complaint letter, 
Mr W said he told the loss adjuster in 2018 that the majority of items stolen, except for the 
laptop, belonged to his daughter. He said the musical equipment was for a new business 
venture as a music therapist. Mr W said he tried to call RSA on numerous occasions and 
only once received a call back from the loss adjusters. 
RSA responded to Mr Ws complaint. It didnt agree that his claim was poorly handled. It said 
numerous attempts were made to contact him, largely without response, and so it had no 
alternative but to close the file in August 2019. RSA said it looked again at Mr Ws claim 
when he contacted it in June 2021. It said the policy provided cover for the laptop and table, 
but said the musical equipment element of the claim was not covered as there was a specific 
exclusion on the policy that said: 
The definition of contents does not include: 
 items used for business or professional purposes other than homeworking equipment;
Mr W then complained to this service. He said he didnt understand the basis on which the 
claim was turned down. Mr W also complained about the handling of the claim and 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Looking at what Mr W said about a lack of 
contact from RSA during the claim, our investigator said he could see RSAs loss adjusters 
rang Mr W on several occasions to remind him to sign a claim mandate. When it couldnt get 
hold of Mr W it closed the claim. Our investigator thought it was reasonable for RSA to close 
the claim at this point. In relation to RSAs decision to decline the claim for the musical 
equipment, our investigator thought this was fair, as the policy excluded items used for 
business or professional purposes. Our investigator also said this service was not able to 
look into how RSA handled Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W didnt agree with what our investigator said and provided additional information about 
the use of the musical equipment. As Mr W didnt agree, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA said it relied on a term in Mr Ws policy that says items used for business and 
professional purposes are not covered, to partially decline his claim. Having seen a copy of 
the original policy documents, I agree that the policy includes an exclusion that says items 
used for business and professional purposes will not be covered. I also think this is a clearly 
worded term, so Mr W was told when he entered into the contract with RSA that these items 
would not be covered. 
RSA said the musical equipment was used by Mr Ws daughter for work purposes. So, Ive 
looked at whether I thought RSA acted fairly when it said this  whether it had enough 
information to reasonably conclude the musical equipment was used by Mr Ws daughter for 
professional purposes  and Im satisfied it did. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen copies of both loss adjuster reports prepared in June and July 2018. Both loss 
adjusters had visited Mr W in his home. One of these reports says we are informed Miss W 
[Mr Ws daughter] performs in a local band; all of the items listed reportedly belonged to her. 
The other report states that Miss W was a musician. It also says Mr Ws daughters musical 
equipment has been removed from the living room... We note that all the items claimed 
belong to Mr Ws daughter [name removed] who performs locally in retirement homes and 
women [sic] institutes for which she uses the equipment subject of the claim. All of the 
information about Mr Ws daughters profession was provided to the loss adjusters by Mr W. 
And I can see that Mr W also confirmed, when he contacted RSA to complain, that the 
musical equipment belonged to his daughter. At that point in time he said the musical 
equipment was for a new business venture as a music therapist.
I think its fair to say that the information provided by Mr W to RSA at different points during 
the claim and complaints process shows that the musical equipment was used for 
professional purposes. I know Mr W said this was very much a new venture for his daughter 
and she wasnt being paid, but whether or not she was paid is not the issue. The term 
doesnt require that payment is made, just that the items are used for professional purposes. 
So, Im satisfied that RSA acted fairly when it said Mr Ws daughter used the musical 
equipment for professional purposes, applied the exclusion and partially declined the claim. 
Ive then looked at Mr Ws complaint about delays in handling his claim. Ive seen a contact 
log provided by RSA and it seems it tried to contact Mr W on several occasions before 
closing the claim in 2019. I think it was fair for it to close the claim after a reasonable amount 
of time, and I wouldnt expect it to try and contact Mr W after that point. I can see that Mr W 
tried to contact RSA in September 2020 to check on progress with the claim, but did not wait 
to be put through to the correct team. RSA then left a voicemail for Mr W, but he did not 
contact it again until June 2021. At this stage RSA re-opened the claim. While I can see that 
its clearly taken quite a long time for this claim to be resolved, I cant see that RSA caused 
any avoidable delays here. I think the delays were caused by Mr W not responding to RSA. 
So I am not asking RSA to take any action here. 
Mr W has also complained about how RSA dealt with his complaint. But while this service 
can consider a wide variety of complaints about financial services, we arent free to look into 
every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set out what complaints we can consider 
are the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. One of these rules (DISP 2.3) outlines how this service can consider complaints in relation to 
regulated or other listed activities. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity nor one of 
the listed activities we can look into. And so I have not addressed it in this decision. 
While I sympathise with Mr W, as it must have been very upsetting when his daughters 
equipment was stolen from his home, I could only ask RSA to take further action if I thought 
it had acted unfairly, and Im satisfied it didnt. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman