DRN-4183240
The complaint
Miss O complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly declined a 
claim against her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss O held pet insurance with UKI for her dog. It provided cover for vet fees, amongst other 
things, for up to 12-months per condition. In 2021, her dogs behaviour changed, so 
investigations were carried out to identify a condition causing episodes such as twitching, 
flinching, and depression. Miss O says this happened out the blue after a walk, and thinks 
her dog ate something toxic. Investigations, however, were inconclusive  no condition was 
diagnosed as the cause of these episodes. 
Miss O says the treating vet submitted two claims to UKI in 2021  but this was only meant 
to be one as it was all linked. UKI paid the first claim for potential intoxication but declined 
the second claim which they say was related to a previous condition diagnosed in 2020 for 
liver dysfunction. They say signs and symptoms in 2021 were similar to those in 2020, and 
the 12-month claim period had ended. 
Miss O says the episodes in 2021 differed to those in 2020. And in any case, she says the 
treating vet ruled out the 2021 episodes were the result of the 2020 condition, and no 
condition was diagnosed in 2021. UKI considered this and maintained their stance, but paid 
Miss O £80 compensation due to the way things were handled. Miss O wasnt happy and 
asked our Service for an impartial review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Several matters have been raised in relation to this complaint  I havent addressed each 
one individually. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt 
meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
The policy says any claims in connection or arising from a pre-existing condition, or claims 
for a recurring condition in any way connected to a pre-existing condition, arent covered. 
UKI relied on these terms to decline the claim. Im not satisfied this was fair and say this 
because the treating vet, within their final report, concluded that:
DIAGNOSIS 
Vacuolar hepatopathy 
This represents a non-specific finding and could be incidental, due to a primary 
hepatic disease or be reactive secondary to another disease process (e.g. 
endocrinopathy). Unfortunately these biopsies results do not provide a clear 
explanation of [Miss Os dogs] abnormal episodes.
No condition was diagnosed as the cause of the 2021 episodes, nor did the vet conclude the 
2020 liver dysfunction condition was linked to the same. Miss O says the vet ruled this out. 
All things considered  I dont think its fair to say the 2021 episodes were connected to a 
pre-existing or recurring condition because that wasnt found to be the cause of the 2021 
episodes following investigations. Miss O says the signs and symptoms displayed in 2021 
differed to those in 2020 when her dog was shaking due to the abdominal pain noted within 
the clinical history notes. She provided videos to demonstrate this along with her testimony 
which Ive found to be consistent and plausible throughout. It follows I dont find UKI applied 
the policy terms fairly when declining the claim. 
As such, Ive gone on to consider the appropriate remedy here to put matters right. Ive 
thought about whether requiring UKI to reconsider the claim would reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome, but I dont think it would, and will explain why. 
In these circumstances, the policy terms, under the vet fees section, say: 
whats not covered  applicable to the Essential and Advanced policy 
We wont pay for: 
the cost of routine or investigative tests, unless these are to diagnose a condition 
due to specific existing symptoms or clinical signs and these confirm that your pet 
has a condition that is covered under the insurance. 
The 2021 investigations didnt diagnose a condition that was covered by the policy. These 
circumstances are specifically excluded, so I dont think the claim should be paid on this 
basis. I note this policy exclusion was only highlighted to Miss O by our investigator  over a 
year after making the claim  and I know this was a disappointing outcome for her. I say this 
given the considerable efforts shes made to support her claim that the 2021 episodes arent 
connected to a pre-existing or recurring condition. 
So, while I wont require UKI to take any action in respect of the claim, Ive gone on to 
consider the way they handled it and the impact on Miss O. She faced several delays, 
misinformation, and had a terrible time of things overall. The terms are clear in that the policy 
wont respond following investigations that dont lead to a condition being diagnosed thats 
covered by the policy. It was apparent early on in the claim the investigations undertaken by 
the vet didnt provide a conclusive diagnosis which would in turn trigger the policy to 
respond. Despite this, Miss O made considerable efforts to support her claim which wouldnt 
have been covered in any case given the exclusion Ive mentioned above. It follows 
compensation is due here. 
Due to the way things were handled overall, and the impact on Miss O, I currently intend to 
require UKI to pay her £400 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. Im 
satisfied this amount is fair, reasonable, and proportionate, in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I currently intend to require U K Insurance 
Limited trading as Direct Line to pay Miss O £400 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Our Service received responses from Miss O and UKI  and neither party agreed with my 
provisional decision. Miss O set out, broadly, that she maintained the claim should be met. 
UKI said the policy exclusion I relied on within my provisional decision didnt apply to Miss 
Os circumstances, amongst other things. After reviewing the responses from both parties, I issued my second provisional decision on 2 June 2023, which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
UKI declined the claim as the 2021 signs and symptoms were similar to those in 2020 when 
a liver dysfunction condition was diagnosed. So, the 12-month policy limit for the claim 
ended. They also say the policy is based on a condition being defined as signs and 
symptoms rather than a diagnosis of a condition. Im not satisfied theres enough supporting 
evidence to show the two are the same and will explain why. 
For clarity, the policy defines a condition as: Any injury or illness or any symptoms or signs 
of injury or illness, including related conditions or problems, no matter where these are 
noticed or happen in or on your pet. 
The intention of the policy is to ensure UKI dont pay out more than the policy limits for the 
same condition. I agree the signs and symptoms were similar here  in 2020 Miss O says 
her dog was shaking due to abdominal pain, and in 2021 they were twitching and flinching. 
But importantly, in 2021, the treating vet was unable to provide a clear explanation of Miss 
Os dogs abnormal episodes. The treating vet says abdominal pains werent a component of 
Miss Os dogs presentation in 2021, and they ruled out the 2021 episodes being the result 
of the previous liver dysfunction condition. 
Im aware the clinical history notes say Miss O witnessed similar episodes two or three times 
over the previous five years as she did in 2021. Miss O says this isnt accurate. All things 
considered  its possible Miss O did witness similar episodes previously, but I dont think 
this necessarily means these are all linked to the same problem. UKI agree similar episodes 
occurred in 2020 and 2021, but importantly, in 2020 the cause was a liver condition  which 
wasnt diagnosed as causing the similar episodes in 2021. As such, I find its unfair to 
decline the claim on the basis signs and symptoms were similar in this case. It follows I dont 
think UKI applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably here. So, I think they should pay the 
claim and include interest. 
I said I previously intended to require UKI to pay Miss O £400 compensation. This was on 
the basis the terms were clear in setting out the policy wont respond to claims for 
investigations that dont lead to a condition being diagnosed thats covered by the policy. 
Thats what happened here  2021 tests didnt provide an explanation or diagnosis as to why 
the episodes occurred or confirm Miss Os dog had a condition covered by the policy. I said 
this exclusion would most likely have become apparent to UKI after the treating vet 
confirmed in their final report no condition had been diagnosed. And despite this, UKI relied 
on the policy limits to decline the claim, which resulted in Miss O making considerable efforts 
to support her claim that wouldnt have been covered in any case. Although, as above, UKI 
have confirmed this exclusion doesnt apply to Miss Os circumstances, so Ive disregarded 
this. 
Miss Os efforts to support her claim, amongst other things, has persuaded me to agree UKI 
applied the policy terms unfairly here. And as this exclusion doesnt apply, I must reconsider 
the level of compensation I think is appropriate. I remain of the view things could have been 
handled much better here, and with a higher level of customer service which UKI accept. To 
recognise these service issues, the delays Miss O faced, and the impact on Miss O of 
having to go to considerable lengths to support her claim, I currently intend to direct UKI to 
pay Miss O a further £150 compensation (in addition to the £80 already paid) for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. I appreciate this aspect of my decision may come as a disappointment to Miss O. But I hope she understands the reasons for reconsidering this 
aspect of her complaint, in light of the comments above regarding the policy exclusion. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I 
currently intend to require U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to: 
Settle Miss Os 2021 claim in line with the remaining policy terms and include 8% 
simple interest from one month from the date the claim was made to the date of 
settlement; and 
Pay her a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my second provisional decision 
UKI responded to say they were disappointed with the outcome but had nothing further to 
add. Miss O responded to say she was pleased with the outcome, and also raised the 
following points:  
UKI has since contacted the treating vet for further medical information to support 
their case outside the period of insurance. 
She says the impact the claim has, and continues to have, on her has been 
consuming. She says the distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs handling of 
matters hasnt changed since my first provisional decision  in fact its increased. She 
queried why the compensation amount reduced from £400 to £150. 
Ive reviewed the further comments provided by Miss O and will now go on to set out my final 
decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to deviate from requiring UKI to settle Miss Os 2021 claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms and include interest. I set out my reasoning previously, 
on 2 June 2023 (which Ive included above), so I wont repeat those reasons again here. 
Miss O requested some clarity in respect of the reason why the compensation amount 
reduced from £400 to £150 over my two provisional decisions. I set out on 2 June 2023 I 
understood this aspect of my decision may come as a disappointment to her. 
A reason why I considered £400 compensation to be fair previously was on the basis the 
policy excluded cover for investigative tests unless they led to confirmation of a condition 
covered by the policy. It was clear early on in the claim as the treating vet in their final report 
confirmed no condition was diagnosed. UKI relied on the policy limits to decline the claim, so 
Miss O was left to make considerable efforts to support her claim (to demonstrate the 2021 
episodes differed to those in 2020) when the claim  as I understood it  wouldnt have been 
paid in any case given the policy exclusion I cited.
I considered the impact on Miss O to be greater in the circumstances where the claim 
wouldnt be paid despite her efforts to provide supporting evidence and testimony. Since my 
first provisional decision however, and as mentioned above, UKI say the exclusion doesnt 
apply to Miss Os circumstances. And as such, Ive set out Ill be requiring UKI to settle the 
claim and include interest (to recognise the delay in settling the claim). So, because I changed my views on the claim outcome, it was also appropriate to reconsider the 
compensation amount I deemed fair and reasonable under these circumstances. 
It's important I explain Ive carefully reviewed Miss Os testimony and have no doubt the way 
things were handled caused her to experience a level of distress and inconvenience  over 
and above whats naturally expected following a claim of this nature. The claim has been 
running for roughly 20 months and Miss O has had to go to considerable efforts to support 
her claim. And this, amongst other things, has in turn persuaded me to agree UKI applied 
the policy terms unfairly and unreasonably when declining the claim. 
In concluding, UKI should have handled things much better overall, and with a higher level of 
customer service. And to recognise the impact the service issues had on Miss O Ill be 
requiring UKI to pay her a further £150 compensation. Im satisfied this amount is fair, 
reasonable, and proportionate, in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, UKI must now settle Miss Os 2021 claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms and include 8% simple interest. They must also pay her a further 
£150 compensation (in addition to the £80 already paid) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line to: 
Settle Miss Os 2021 claim in line with the remaining policy terms and include 8% 
simple interest*, from one month from the date the claim was made, to the date of 
settlement; and 
Pay her a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
*If U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line considers that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss O how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss O a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman