DRN-1562822
complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to them as the seller in 
this decision.
background
Mrs G took out a store card in 1998. After she received the card she was sold a PPI policy 
over the phone. The PPI wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card if she couldnt 
work. 
Mrs G says that the PPI wasnt mentioned to her. She says she wasnt given a choice about 
having it and wouldnt have taken it if she had a choice.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs G disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs G applied for the store card in an application completed in store. After she received the 
card she was sold the PPI policy in a phone call. There isnt a record of what was said in this 
phone call, and I wouldnt expect there to be over 20 years later. 
Mrs G says she didnt know she had the PPI. She says it wasnt explained to her and it 
wasnt mentioned. I wouldnt expect Mrs G to have a recollection of the call over 20 years 
later, but the PPI would have appeared on Mrs Gs store card statements from the point at 
which she agreed to take it. So I think if she hadnt agreed to take it shed have seen it on 
her statements and would have queried it.
On the basis of the limited information I have available to me I cant safely say that the PPI 
was added without Mrs Gs knowledge or consent. 
AXA didnt make a personal recommendation to Mrs G about the PPI so it didnt need to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it 
gave her all the information she needed to make her own decision. Its not clear whether 
AXA did this. 
But looking at Mrs Gs circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it. I think its likely Mrs G understood the policy would pay a benefit if she wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs G chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mrs G was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or self-employment  so it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. I 
havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs G.
Mrs G says she was only entitled to statutory sick pay and redundancy pay and she didnt 
have any savings or other means of meeting her repayments if she couldnt work. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick or redundancy pay and potentially wouldve 
continued to do so until the balance was paid off or she returned to work. So I think the 
policy offered Mrs G a useful benefit.
So, on balance, I dont think Mrs G lost out as a result of anything AXA might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint, so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman