The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK Plc handled a request he made to send copy 
statements for his accounts. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S asked Barclays to send him up to date statements for his current 
account. He needed to send them to a solicitor in another country, who was helping family 
members apply for visas ahead of a visit. However, he was sent copy statements, and says 
this delayed him sending the necessary information in a timely manner. Mr S says as a 
result, hes suffered a financial loss because the cost of tickets for his family members had 
increased. And, he was concerned the delay in sending the statements meant his family 
members were likely to miss a significant family event. 
To put things right, Mr S said Barclays should pay him the difference in travel fares and also 
make a compensation payment to recognise the upset and stress caused. 
Barclays says it sent the statements to Mr S with covering letters on two separate occasions. 
It also says Mr S could have downloaded the statements by going online, and these would 
have been suitable for his needs. Overall, it was satisfied it had provided the statements to 
Mr S, and didnt think any further action was needed to put things right. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint, but didnt recommend Barclays needed to do 
anything to put things right for Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to the call where Mr S requests the statements, he does initially say that hes 
looking for up to date statements for two of his accounts. He also says he wanted these on 
letterhead paper, rather than copy statements.
Its accepted that Barclays initially sent copies rather than statements on letterhead paper. 
However, during the call the adviser was very clear that the statements she was ordering 
would take up to seven days. And she also offered to help Mr S order these online, and they 
would have been available 48 hours later. However, Mr S said he would prefer to wait for the 
statements to be sent to him. 
I can imagine it would have been frustrating for Mr S to have received the copy statements 
when he asked for them to be sent to him on letterhead paper. However, like our 
investigator, Im satisfied that Barclays did enough to let Mr S know what he needed to do to DRN-1212548
get the statements he required in the correct format. I also dont consider Ive been provided 
with evidence to say Barclays caused Mr S a financial loss as a direct result of its actions. 
It follows, as I havent seen any evidence to say Barclays has acted unfairly, Im not going to 
recommend it take any further action to put things right for Mr S.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr S' complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman