DRN-3085833
The complaint
The executor of the estate of the late Mr D has complained that a lifetime mortgage that 
Mr D took out with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited was mis-sold.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr P who is a mortgage adviser acting on 
behalf of the executor, Mr D1. Mr D1 was one of Mr Ds sons.
What happened
I will keep my summary of what happened fairly brief. Mr P has given us some detailed 
information about Mr Ds personal circumstances, which I have read in full. However our 
decisions are published so its important that I dont include any information that might 
identify Mr D.
Mr D met an adviser from Aviva in October 2008 and, after discussing his wishes and needs, 
Aviva issued a suitability report in November 2008, summarising what had been discussed. 
Aviva recommended an equity release mortgage of £53,300.
The property was valued at less than Mr D had said it was worth, and so the maximum loan 
amount was reduced to £45,100 which Mr D accepted.
One of Avivas requirements was that Mr D needed to have independent legal advice before 
it would agree to complete the mortgage. Mr D was given advice by an independent firm of 
solicitors, and I understand the mortgage completed shortly thereafter in January 2009. In 
common with this type of loan, no repayments are due; instead interest rolls up into the debt, 
which is repayable either when the borrower dies or goes into long-term care.
Mr D died in April 2020 and Mr D1 raised a complaint with Aviva a few days later that the 
mortgage had been mis-sold.
Mr D1 detailed his fathers personal circumstances and said hed been his carer since 2006. 
He said his father was vulnerable, and lacked the capacity to make such an important 
decision. He said his father didnt need a lifetime mortgage as he received a generous 
occupational pension, and had savings, and said that all the things listed as the reason for 
the mortgage would be classed as short-term spending.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, and so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied Avivas sales process had been followed and that Mr D had 
received independent legal advice.
Mr D1 didnt agree with the investigators findings. Because the matter is unresolved, it falls 
to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr D was a consumer, and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect,
Mr D1 (supported by Mr P) is bringing the complaint on the estates behalf, and as Executor 
is authorised by law to do so.
But I must explain that, although Mr D1 is representing the estate, it is Mr D who was Avivas 
customer. Mr D1s role is to bring Mr Ds complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way 
that other consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle Mr D1 (or Mr P on his behalf) to air his own grievances 
about Aviva, because he is not its customer; his role is limited to putting forward the estates 
complaint.
Mr D hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only when 
Mr D1 looked at Mr Ds financial affairs after Mr Ds health deteriorated and he sadly died 
that a complaint was raised with Aviva. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of 
the mortgage. Without a specific complaint from Mr D about it, I have considered generally 
whether Aviva did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
The Financial Conduct Authority and the Equity Release Council (formerly the Safe Home 
Income Plan  or SHIP) are aware that there is potential, years down the line, for adult 
children to find out their parents had taken out an equity release mortgage without consulting 
them first. These scenarios  and the fact that equity release mortgages are sold to elderly 
customers  is why this type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to a robust and 
rigorous sales process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a financial adviser, 
as well as from an independent solicitor.
Mr D was given independent legal advice from a solicitor of his choice  a solicitor that hed 
used a few weeks earlier to prepare his will.
The documents from 2008 show that Mr D went through a very detailed questionnaire with 
Avivas adviser. Mr D didnt want to have a family member present  which was his right.
There is no suggestion in the documentation that Mr D was suffering from any cognitive 
impairment which prevented him from understanding what he was doing. Whilst Mr D1 has 
told us all about Mr Ds recent personal history nothing he said there would have been a 
reason Mr D shouldnt have been allowed to make his own decisions about his own property. 
Ive carefully considered the letter Mr D1 provided from Mr Ds GP in September 2020. The 
letter is in response to Mr D1s request for information about his fathers mental health in 
2008. Mr D1 redacted parts of the letter, stating I have had to redact some of it, but this 
redaction does not relate to [Mr Ds] state of mind, but other medical issues and some 
activities he took part in.
But I dont agree. Fortuitously the parts Mr D1 had redacted were still readable and they do 
relate to Mr Ds state of mind.The part Mr D wanted us to see said that in November 2008 a different doctor had seen 
Mr D and he said his depression was much worse.  Mr D1s submissions about this were:
I draw your attention to the section where the Doctor confirms the following When he 
was seen by [the other doctor] on the [date in November 2008], he said his depression 
was MUCH worst, this is ONLY 3 days after he signed up for the lifetime mortgage, he 
was also taking antidepressants and sleeping pills as he was hearing his dead wifes 
voice on a night, and on the occasion I saw him in November 2008, his other Doctor [] 
also states his mood was low, So he saw 2 doctors in November 2008 and both state he 
was in a low mood and his depression was much worse and he was on anti-
depressants and sleeping pills.
But the redacted part of the letter said:
When I saw him in September 2008 he was very well, had just got a new dog and I 
referred him for an [minor operation].
There was no evidence of psychosis at the time I note he had an assessment by the 
community mental health team although [date in September] where it was decided he did 
not need any input from the mental health team. They commented that he was comforted 
by his church along with a number of social outlets including [].
The full letter doesnt show that Mr D saw 2 doctors in November 2008 and both state he 
was in a low mood... Instead it shows that Mr D saw one doctor in September 2008 at 
which time Mr D was very well and had just got a dog, he also saw the community mental 
health team in September and it was decided he didnt need any input, and he saw the other 
doctor in November who commented that Mr D said his depression was much worse. The 
doctor who wrote the letter ended by saying that Mr D seemed to be quite stable in mood 
when he saw him in (September) 2008, although his mood was low in November.
In any event, if the family truly felt Mr D was unable to make his own decisions then I would 
have expected there to have been a lasting power of attorney in place. It would also bring 
into question the validity of both the October 2008 and the August 2010 wills as it would be 
nonsensical to say Mr D didnt have the capacity to understand this lifetime mortgage, but 
did have the capacity to make a will a few weeks earlier, and then a replacement will two 
years later.
Having considered everything Im satisfied there was no medical reason that Aviva would 
have been aware of that should have prevented Mr D from entering into this lifetime 
mortgage. The adviser noted Mr Ds recent mental health concerns, so he was aware of 
them, but both he and Mr Ds solicitor felt he was in sound mind such that he could enter into 
this contract (and in the case of the solicitor, that he could also make a will).
The information-gathering exercise identified various specific financial objectives, chief 
among them to repay two loans hed taken out in the last year to help one of his sons. The 
other objectives included at the time were for a holiday, a car, repay credit card debts, put 
money aside as an emergency fund and £1,000 to cover the fees for taking the mortgage 
out. By proceeding with the application, Mr D signed to confirm the information given about 
his personal circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time.
Mr P (on behalf of Mr D1) said Mr D no longer drove so had no need of a car. But Mr Ds 
bank statements from 2008 show he was paying monthly for car insurance. It may be that 
car insurance was for a car owned and used by someone else, so equally it might be that the 
car Mr D said he was going to buy was also to be owned and used by someone else. It may 
be Mr D intended to start driving again and so either bought  or intended to buy  a car, or it may be that information wasnt true. We have no way of knowing now what Mr D intended, 
but I dont need to know that to fairly decide this case. Mr D signed the paperwork to declare 
the information was correct, and Aviva had no regulatory responsibility to check that Mr D 
spent the money on what hed said he would.
Mr P has also said that Mr D didnt have any credit cards and I agree that the bank 
statements provided dont show credit card payments. But equally Mr P told us that theyd 
been unable to obtain copies of the bank statements for another one of Mr Ds accounts, so 
it is quite possible that the statements for the other account (or another account Mr P and Mr 
D1 dont know about which may have been subsequently closed) would show credit card 
payments being made in the run up to this lifetime mortgage being taken out. We simply 
cant know, and as Ive explained above we dont need to know for this complaint.
Mr P has focussed on what he believes is an omission from the fact finding process which 
he thinks proves the whole advice was unsuitable. But, as our investigator explained, it 
seems Mr P has misunderstood the information.
It is clear that Aviva recorded both Mr Ds pensions at the time of the sale. The fact find 
notes his net monthly income to be £1,820 which was made up of his state pension and his 
occupational pension (the gross annual figure was given as £27,000). In addition it seems 
Mr P has misunderstood the outgoings part as the mention of £885 just relates to Mr Ds 
unsecured debts, not his total outgoings. Mr Ds total monthly outgoings were noted on the 
fact find to be £2,205 a month and the breakdown for that is broadly supported by the bank 
statements that have been provided for one of Mr Ds bank accounts.
The information captured also indicated that Mr D had no personal savings so its 
reasonable to infer from this that Mr D would have need of some form of borrowing if he was 
to be able to realise his stated objectives. So Ive next considered whether something other 
than a lifetime mortgage would have been a better option.
The documentation from the time shows that other ways of raising the money were 
discussed. Mr P has questionned why other forms of borrowing werent considered, saying 
(amongst others):
Mortgage / re-mortgage his home to raise the funds he wanted, and repay this monthly 
from his £1400 disposable income from the [occupational pension].
Or, if not a mortgage an unsecured or secured loan, and repay from his income.
That way he would be paying less out per month, AND retain ownership of his home.
What Aviva advised was he sell his home for 40% of its value, immediately losing him 
£60,000 and his home, and increasing his debts to £130,000 by his death, because they 
failed to accurately record this extra £1400 a month he received as they had a duty too 
under the financial ser=vices and markets act 2000 and subsequent legislation.
So, you cannot argue the first solution would be best for him, and cheaper, and he would 
have kept his home.
But Mr D did retain ownership of his home  he took out a lifetime mortgage, not a home 
reversion scheme. Mr D owned his property until he died, at which time the ownership of the 
property formed part of his estate. Yes, the estate may have to sell the property to settle the 
mortgage debt, but thats not the same as Mr D not retaining ownership. Mr D raised a 
mortgage against his home, just like Mr P has said should have been recommended, the 
only difference being that this lifetime mortgage didnt require Mr D to make any monthly payments. It is difficult to see how Mr P believes that Mr D making monthly payments to a 
mortgage would result in him paying less out per month (or be cheaper for him) than this 
option of a lifetime mortgage. It may have meant more money being available to Mr Ds 
beneficiaries after his death, but that is very different to it being cheaper and better for Mr D.
Mr D was clear that he didnt want to make any monthly payments and that was his right and 
his decision to make. It was recorded that he was prepared to accept the risk of eroding all 
of the equity within [his] property for the benefit of having as much capital as possible now. 
And You are unconcerned about leaving a guaranteed inheritence as your family would 
rather see you enjoy your money whilst you can.
All together, this indicates to me that an equity release was probably the only viable option 
for Mr D given the circumstances recorded at the time. The mortgage Aviva recommended 
and then provided for Mr D raised the money hed asked for. Avivas obligation was to 
provide advice to Mr D in respect of his property, needs and wants; it wasnt to consider 
whether that would also be the best thing for Mr Ds eventual beneficiaries.
Mr D had valid reasons for wanting to borrow the money. Mr D1 has commented on Avivas 
statement on the application form The lifetime mortgage should not be used to raise cash 
for the short term, saying Mr Ds reasons for wanting the lifetime mortgage were short term 
cash raising.
I think Mr D1 has misunderstood that statement. The reference to equity release being 
unsuitable for short term loans relates to people borrowing money and then paying it back in 
the short term; not about what the person intends to spend the money on. This is shown by 
the rest of the statement If you can think of a time when you might wish to repay the loan, 
other than on your death or when you move into long-term care you should consider 
alternative types of finance. If you choose to repay the loan early you may have to pay a 
substantial early repayment charge.
The reason why equity release is unsuitable for people intending to repay the money is that 
there are normally early repayment charges. Thats not relevant here as Mr D didnt intend to 
 and didnt - repay the money in the short term. The fact Mr D wanted to spend some 
money on a car and a holiday, for example, is not at all inappropriate and is quite a common 
thing we see with equity release mortgages. Many equity release customers are retired so 
they have more time available and wish to spend that time having holidays and undertaking 
other general leisure activities. It wasnt Avivas role to tell Mr D how to spend the money as 
it was Mr Ds house and his equity to use as he wished.
That brings me to the interest rate. Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity 
release mortgage, and then to attract further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of 
this would have been demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale material.
The rate charged is 7.39% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out in the 
offer. I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mr D studied the offer, or how much 
of the information it contained he assimilated; but the information was set out in a manner 
prescribed by the Financial Conduct Authoritys predecessor as regulator, the Financial 
Services Authority.
The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been fairly normal on equity release 
mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the 
interest rolls up. Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when 
deciding how much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how 
their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage 
offer, as it was in this case.Mr D1 has questioned the valuation of the property. Mr D had thought the property was 
worth even more, but the decision to lend wasnt based on Mr Ds estimated valuation of 
£130,000; it was based on an actual valuation of £110,000, and Aviva didnt provide that 
lower figure; it was provided by the professional who valued the property on Avivas 
instruction. Avivas duty to Mr D in 2008 was to appoint a suitably qualified surveyor to carry 
out the valuation.
Provided it did that, and I am satisfied it did, Aviva was entitled to rely on the surveyors 
opinion when assessing whether and on what terms to lend money to Mr D. It was the valuer 
who valued Mr Ds home at £110,000, and Aviva legitimately relied on that figure when it 
made the lending decision.
In these circumstances, a lender does not have any liability for any shortcomings on the part 
of the valuer. I should also make clear that Im not implying, and it should not be inferred, 
that there was anything wrong with the valuation. Ive not  because I have no power to do 
so  considered whether the surveyors opinion was accurate or not. All I can consider here 
is whether Aviva met its duty to Mr D in 2008. For the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied it 
did. Therefore it could reasonably rely on the valuation of £110,000 when deciding to lend to 
Mr D.
This type of mortgage provides that no repayments are made, and interest rolls up over the 
years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased to can sometimes come as a shock to 
family members. But that doesnt mean the consumers that took out the mortgage  so here 
that is Mr D  didnt understand the consequences of the interest roll up and werent happy 
to agree to it. As I said earlier, this was Mr Ds house and his equity. If he wanted to enjoy 
his money at a time he still could then it would be highly inappropriate for me to say that 
Aviva shouldnt have allowed him to do so.
Im satisfied that paperwork explains in full how the mortgage works, all the relevant 
conditions that apply and the implications for Mr D of entering into this transaction. The 
suitability report gives some detail about Mr Ds circumstances, wishes and needs. I am also 
satisfied that it reflects what was recorded at the time by Aviva, based on the information 
provided by Mr D.
Mr D1 might not agree with Mr Ds decision to take out an equity release mortgage. But, 
being an independent person with agency to act as he wished, Mr D was entitled to make 
this decision  and to do this without telling his family about it. The reasons Mr D gave Aviva 
for wanting the money were entirely plausible. It wasnt Avivas job to check up on Mr D or 
police his spending to make sure hed used the funds as he said he was going to.
I fully appreciate it was a shock for the family to discover in 2020 that Mr D had taken out 
this mortgage in 2009.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, from the evidence at the point of sale, that the 
advice and recommendation were suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. This 
means that I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman