DRN-3945012
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way his insurer, Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (Helvetia), 
dealt with a claim he made on his motor breakdown insurance policy. 
Helvetia is the underwriter of this policy i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of another company who acts as its agent. As Helvetia has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to Helvetia includes 
the actions of the agent.
 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr M made a claim on his breakdown policy when the chain came off his 
motorbike while he was riding it on a main road at two in the morning. He stopped by the 
side of the road and waited to be recovered. 
Helvetia approved the claim and told Mr M it would try to find a recovery company so he 
could be recovered to a local garage but due to the time of the incident this was proving 
difficult. 
A few hours went by, and the handler Mr M had been liaising with finished their shift and a 
new handler took over. The new handler told Mr M that the policy wouldnt cover him and 
that he had to pay £200 to be recovered. He said the reason for this was because there had 
been an advisory on Mr Ms bikes last MOT (a Ministry of Transport safety test) which said 
that the chain should be replaced. The handler said because this hadnt been done, the 
motorbike was not roadworthy. 
Mr M refused to pay and complained about the way the claim had been handled. In the 
meantime, he managed to reattach the chain himself and spoke to a dealership who talked 
him through how to start the motorbike at no cost. 
Helvetia didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and said he had breached his policy terms. It relied 
on an exclusion in the policy which says that breakdowns caused by failure to maintain the 
vehicle in a roadworthy condition, including maintenance, are excluded. It also relied on a 
condition which says that it may terminate a policy immediately if the vehicle is found to be 
unroadworthy due to lack of maintenance. It acknowledged that it delayed rejecting Mr Ms 
complaint and offered him £20 compensation which he declined. 
Mr M wasnt happy and complained to us. He said Helvetia provided him with a poor service 
and should have honoured the offer to arrange a recovery made by the first claims handler. 
He added that:
Helvetia showed no consideration for his safety bearing in mind he was stranded on the 
side of the road in the middle of the night and neither did the garages it has contracts 
with. 
The claim was wrongly declined as he had not failed to properly maintain his motorbike 
and had receipts to support this. He said the second handler he spoke to didnt ask to 
see the receipts and based his decision solely on the MOT. 
The chain was adjusted after the MOT was carried out on the advice of the dealership 
who had carried out the MOT.  
He wanted Helvetia to provide him with genuine compensation based on the time he 
wasted and the dangers he was exposed to. 
He wanted us to look into the process by which insurers arrange contracts with local 
garages as it appears they are not always able to provide the service the insured has 
paid for. 
Helvetia told us that Mr M had agreed to wait in his brothers van with his brother while a 
recovery agent was being located. It added that it spoke to a local repairer about whether the 
fault could be linked to the MOT advisory and was told that it was possible a worn chain had 
cased the fault. Finally, it said that even if the claim had been declined from the start by the 
first handler Mr M would not have been able to take the motorbike to a garage for repair due 
to the time of the incident and it is more likely than not that he would have had to stay in the 
van until the following morning in any event. 
Our Investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think it should be upheld and that 
Helvetia had declined the claim in line with its policy terms.
 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said the motorbike hadnt 
been poorly maintained and that he had followed dealerships advice that the chain didnt 
need to be replaced. He added that the policy didnt require him to have a valid MOT with no 
advisories. He said if hed known his claim was declined from the start, he would have likely 
attempted to repair the chain straightaway and looked at other options. 
Before I issued my decision, I asked our Investigator to write to both parties to let them know 
that I was considering upholding the complaint and awarding Mr M £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he was caused. I said I thought the service Mr M had 
received was poor and I also thought the claim had been turned down unfairly. I gave the 
following reasons:
I didnt think Helvetia acted fairly and reasonably in saying that Mr M failed to maintain 
his motorbike and thereby rejecting the claim. Mr M provided evidence to show that his 
bike was serviced on the same day as the MOT which was only a month or so before his 
breakdown. From the invoices he had provided it appeared that when the bike was 
serviced by the dealership Mr M was advised that the chain needed to be adjusted. And 
it appears that this took place on the same day. I noted that Mr M also authorised other 
repairs on the same day for items that came up as advisories on his MOT such as his 
brake pads which were replaced on the same day. So I thought Mr M took reasonable 
steps, bearing in mind the expert advice he received from the dealership, to make sure 
his motorbike was safe and roadworthy.
I thought Helvetia should have honoured the first handlers decision that Mr M had a 
valid claim. I said this was because Mr M was led to believe he was covered and 
between the hours of 02:02 and 09:10 he relied on this statement and stayed by his bike 
waiting for a recovery vehicle. I thought that had Mr M been told from the start that he 
wasnt covered (which I didnt think would have been correct in any event) he would have 
made other arrangements to get back on the road. I said that was because when he was 
told he wasnt covered he managed to put the chain back himself and restart the bike 
with the help of a dealership. 
I was pleased to note that Mr M managed to get back on the road without incurring any 
third party expenses. Nevertheless, I thought the Helvetias poor handling of the claim 
which included unfairly turning down the claim, giving Mr M the impression that he would 
be recovered which meant he stayed at the roadside for several hours overnight, to have 
caused him distress and inconvenience. And for those reasons I thought it should pay 
him £150 compensation. Finally, I noted Mr M wanted us to comment on Helvetias contracts with local garages 
and to look into the reasons why no local garage was able to assist overnight. I said 
insurers general business practices arent something we can look into as our role is to 
look at specific individual complaints. But I thought this was something Mr M could 
potentially raise with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
We asked both parties to respond within 14 days. Helvetia didnt respond. I asked our 
Investigator to write to it to let it know that I was now proceeding with my decision. Mr M 
agreed with my comments. He asked how Id arrived at the £150 compensation award. He 
also asked for me to consider whether he should also be compensated for the cost of his 
policy (£92.41) and any onward travel expenses he might have incurred.
 
Our Investigator responded to Mr M to say that we dont use an exact formula to arrive at a 
compensation award for distress and inconvenience. She added that the compensation was 
not in order to pay back what he had paid for the policy as that was something hed agreed 
to pay when he took the policy out. She said the compensation I had recommended was for 
the distress and inconvenience hed experienced in the way his complaint was handled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it. 
The starting point is the policy. It says that Helvetia may offer assistance on a pay-on-use 
basis where a claim is declined. It also says it will always decline to provide service for 
pre-existing or non-repaired faults (receipts will be required to evidence a repair). Under 
General Exclusions it also says that any incident which is subsequently found to be a result 
of poor maintenance or lack of servicing will be excluded.
 
Mr M made the claim around two in the morning. Helvetias notes show that checks were 
carried out including the fact that the motorbike had been taxed and had a valid MOT. The 
notes show that the claim was activated around fifteen minutes later and Helvetias handler 
started searching for a recovery company. It appears that all requests were declined by the 
relevant garages. Helvetia called Mr M at 03:21am to say it wasnt able to find a recovery 
service. Mr M called about four hours later and asked for an update. He was told Helvetia 
would start looking for a garage between 08:30am and 09:00am when they started to open. 
At around 09:00am a further tax and MOT check was carried out by the new handler. 
Helvetia called Mr M to ask if he had replaced his chain since his MOT the previous month. 
Mr M said he hadnt as the dealership who did the MOT told him the chain was ok for now. 
Helvetia said it should have been replaced and as it wasnt it wouldnt cover the claim due to 
poor maintenance. 
Mr M provided evidence which shows that the MOT advised that the chain was worn but that 
this was not considered to be excessive. Mr M provided invoices to show that his motorbike 
was serviced on the same day as the MOT which was only a month or so before his 
breakdown. From the invoices it appears that when the bike was serviced by the dealership 
Mr M was advised that the chain needed to be adjusted. And it appears that this took place 
on the same day. 
I note that Mr M also authorised other repairs on the same day for items that came up as 
advisories on his MOT such as his brake pads which were replaced on the same day. So I 
think Mr M took reasonable steps, bearing in mind the expert advice he received from the 
dealership, to make sure his bike was safe and roadworthy. For this reason I dont think Helvetia acted fairly or reasonably in determining that the bike wasnt maintained in a 
roadworthy condition by Mr M and thereby rejecting his claim.
 
I appreciate that had the claim been covered Mr M would have still had to wait several hours 
before he was recovered. But he wouldnt have had to repair the chain himself which 
I understand was difficult and messy. And he wouldnt have gone through the distress of 
being told that he had failed to maintain his bike which led to his claim being rejected.
Even if I were to agree with Helvetia that Mr M failed to maintain his bike, which I dont, 
I think it should have honoured the first handlers decision that Mr M had a valid claim. I say 
this because, in the specific circumstances, I think it took too long to reverse its decision. 
Mr M was led to believe he was covered between the hours of 02:02am and 09:10am and he 
relied on this statement and stayed by his bike waiting for a recovery vehicle. Had Mr M 
been told from the start that he wasnt covered (which I dont think would have been correct 
in any event) he would have made other arrangements to get back on the road. I say that 
because when he was told he wasnt covered he managed to put the chain back himself. I 
appreciate he may not have gotten through to the dealership until the morning but I think if 
he'd been told early on he would have looked at other options if given the opportunity to try- 
bearing in mind he managed to fix the chain himself.
I think Helvetias poor handling of the claim which includes unfairly turning down the claim, 
giving Mr M the impression that he would be recovered and changing its mind several hours 
later to have caused him distress and inconvenience. And for these reasons I think it should 
pay him £150 compensation.
 
Mr M asked how Id arrived at this amount. As our investigator said we dont use a formula to 
arrive at our compensation awards for distress and inconvenience. But we consider things 
such as the length of time the inconvenience was caused for and the impact this had on the 
individual consumer. There are more details about our awards on our website. Im satisfied 
that £150 is in line with other awards weve made in similar circumstances. I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.
Mr M asked whether I would consider refunding his premium and also asking Helvetia to pay 
for some of the onward travel costs he would have incurred. As he didnt incur any costs 
I wont consider awarding any. And as he had a valid policy that, I think, he could otherwise 
claim under I wont be asking Helvetia to refund his premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. Helvetia Global Solutions 
Ltd must pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman