DRN-3875565
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV have declined her claim for 
damage caused to her static caravan due to an escape of water.   
   
What happened
Mrs J held a holiday home insurance policy for her static caravan with Accelerant.  
On 6 February 2022 Mrs J visited the caravan and found that water was leaking out of the 
boiler and had damaged the flooring in the bathroom and bedroom. She called the on-site 
manager who turned off the stop cock and stopped the leak.   
The next day Mrs J made a claim under her policy, but says she received no response and 
so she asked a contractor to give her a quote for the repairs. The quote was £5214 to 
include a new boiler, bathroom flooring and carpets. 
Accelerant sent out an assessor to look at the damage on 8 March and their report was 
completed on 19 March and sent back to Accelerant on 25 March.  
On 24 April Accelerant declined the claim under a policy exclusion as they said caravan had 
been vacant for over 72 hours and the boiler hadnt been drained down in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs J was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to us. She said that the caravan 
hadnt been unoccupied, as there had been guests in the caravan, and that she had never 
seen any exclusions in the policy. She further said that due to the delays caused by 
Accelerant in dealing with the claim, further damage was caused to the caravan as a result 
of damp, including mould damage to curtains, the bed and walls. She also says that she was 
paying site fees for six months when the caravan was unusable, and she suffers from a 
breathing condition which is affected by mould spores. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Js complaint and she thought that Accelerant 
had acted in line with the terms of the policy and fairly declined the claim.   
Mrs J disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether Accelerant have decided the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision. 
I havent upheld Mrs Js complaint, and I will explain why.  
In their final response Accelerant say that the claim was initially declined because the 
holiday home had been unoccupied for 6 days and Mrs J had failed to follow the drain down 
precautions which are a requirement of the policy. 
They have then gone on to say that even if there was occupancy during that period, the 
claim would still be declined as the failure of the boiler was due to wear and tear, which is 
excluded under the policy as it doesnt cover any damage which occurred as a result of 
corrosion due to wear and tear, poor maintenance or damage over a period of time. 
Ive looked at the policy terms that have been applied. The exclusion says that in relation to 
an escape of water there is no cover for: 
Loss or damage occurring between 1st October and 14th March when your Structure is 
unoccupied unless you have taken the precautions defined below:
If your Park is Closed
(a) Turning off the water at the mains stopcock and fully draining down all equipment to 
the manufacturers specifications
(b)  Leaving a proprietary sealed heating system that contains anti-freeze and
has been maintained to the manufacturers specification in operation
(c) Using a Park approved service to drain down your Structure
If your Park is Open
(d) You must ensure that the water has been turned off at the mains stopcock, all taps 
are left open, sinks and plug holes are left unobstructed, or the full central heating 
system has been set to operate daily and overnight to avoid frost 
So, the first question is whether the caravan was unoccupied. Unoccupied is defined in the 
policy as When the Structures is/are left unattended by You, or a responsible member of 
Your Family or a responsible adult for a period in excess of 72 hours. Mrs J told Accelerate 
that she was there on 31 January and discovered the leak on 6 February when she returned. 
However, she later qualified this, saying that there were family and friends visiting the 
caravan all over the winter period as it was warmer there, and so it wasnt unoccupied.
Apart from Mrs Js testimony above, I havent seen any specific evidence which shows that 
the caravan was occupied in the 72 hours before the leak was discovered. The report 
provided by the assessors describes the leak as a drip leak and records the resulting 
damage has spread from the hallway into the bedroom, damaging a substantial portion of 
the bedroom carpet and the bed base. Im satisfied without evidence to the contrary, that  
Accelerants conclusion that the caravan was unoccupied for at least 72 hours before the 
leak was discovered is reasonable on that basis, and so the relevant precautions outlined in 
the policy should have been taken.   
However, I think that Accelerant have then applied the wrong precautions in the exclusion, 
as the evidence indicates that the park is open, and draining down the system is only 
required if the park is closed. 
So, under the terms of the policy exclusion it would have been the responsibility of Mrs J to 
turn off the mains stopcock and leave taps on and plugholes unobstructed during periods of 
absence, or to leave the boiler on daily and overnight.
I can see from the evidence provided by Mrs J that when she attended the caravan on 6 
February she had to ask the site engineer to turn off the stopcock, and so I think its fair to 
say that she hadnt complied with the precautions in the policy in that respect. I can also see that she said the caravan was cold and so she went to turn the heating on, which also 
means that she hadnt complied with alternative policy term. And so, whilst the wrong 
reasoning for the exclusion was applied, Im satisfied that Accelerant fairly applied the 
exclusion in any event.  
I note that Mrs J has raised issues about the temperature not dropping below freezing, and 
there being no extreme weather. However, the temperature isnt a factor in determining 
whether the precautions in the policy should be undertaken, and so this doesnt affect my 
finding in that regard.  
Accelerant have also said that even if the caravan hadnt been unoccupied the claim would 
still have been declined as the boiler leak was due to wear and tear. There isnt a specific 
report on the state of the boiler, but the surveyors report indicates that the contractor 
attributed the damage to freezing conditions. I havent seen any evidence of this, but neither 
have I seen any evidence of servicing receipts or repairs which may show a well-maintained 
system. In any event, I am satisfied that the claim was fairly declined on other grounds.   
The second part of Mrs Js complaint is about the length of time it took the claim to be 
determined and the deterioration of the soft furnishings in the caravan. 
I can see that the claim was made to Accelerant on 7 February. They raised queries with 
Mrs J on 8 February which were responded to on 24 February. The site visit was then 
arranged on 4 March, took place on 8 March, and the report was received by Accelerant on 
25 March.  Further queries were raised with Mrs J on 22 March and 25 March by e mail and 
responded to on 3 April. At that point the insurers discussed matters further and the claim 
decline was issued on 29 April. Although this has taken just over 11 weeks, around 4 weeks 
of these delays were in Mrs J responding to queries and I dont consider that 7 weeks is an 
unnecessarily long time to decide a claim, and so I wont be upholding this aspect of Mrs Js  
complaint.
I appreciate that this whole incident has been distressing for Mrs J and understand that the 
cost of replacing the damaged items will be unexpected. However, on the basis of the 
above, I cant say that Accelerant have acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that Im not uphold Mrs Js complaint against Accelerant Insurance Europe 
SA/NV. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman