DRN-3560571
The complaint
Mr H and Ms M are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H and Ms M booked a holiday abroad in July 2020. They were due to travel to a country 
Ill refer to as F in September 2020. 
During the summer of 2020 the travel industry was significantly impacted by the ongoing 
impact of Covid-19. On 14 August 2020 the UK government added the country Mr H and 
Ms M were due to visit to the quarantine list which meant that travellers returning from F 
needed to self-isolate for 14 days on their return. The Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Office (FCDO) also advised people who hadnt travelled yet against all but 
essential travel to F. A few weeks later Mr H and Ms M cancelled their holiday.
Mr H and Ms M made a claim for their unused accommodation and travel costs. As they 
were part of a larger group they claimed for their proportion of the costs. Ageas declined the 
claim on the basis that the policy didnt cover the prohibitive regulations of any government. 
Mr H and Ms M complained but Ageas maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr H and Ms M made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think it 
was fair and reasonable to decline the claim as Mr H and Ms M wouldnt have been covered 
if theyd travelled abroad against FCDO advice but also not covered if they cancelled. And, 
she didnt think there were any prohibitive regulations in force at the relevant time. Ageas 
didnt agree and highlighted other cases that out service hadnt upheld. So, I need to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
 What is not insured?
Travel against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice. 
The policy terms and conditions say, on page six:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following: 
1. The death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to stay with during your trip; or
 
2. You being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law; or 
3. Your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of two years and that you were not aware of any 
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was 
booked; or  
4. Your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire; or 
5. You, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the armed 
forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government 
employee being ordered to return to duty. 
There is no cover for: 
Claims arising from the prohibitive regulations of any country. 
There are general exclusions to the policy, set out on page thirteen of the policy, which 
include: 
We will not pay anything directly or indirectly caused by: 
Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against all, or all but essential, travel.
Was it unreasonable for Ageas to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Mr H and Miss M cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something 
that is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or 
listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr H and Miss M had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr H and Miss M. 
Mr H and Miss M would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think 
that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent 
way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently 
clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Ageas 
and Mr H and Miss M. I think its unlikely that they would have purchased the policy if 
they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance 
changed after theyd bought the policy. Policies offering cover for changes in FCDO 
advice were widely available at the time Mr H and Miss M bought the policy.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think that Mr H and Miss M cancelled their 
trip due to the prohibitive regulations in the UK or abroad. And, I dont think Ageas 
has adequately demonstrated it was fair and reasonable to rely on the exclusion on 
the facts of this case. Im satisfied that in this case its most likely that the main 
reason for cancellation was the advice of the FCDO not to travel to F. FCDO advice 
is government advice but it doesnt have the force of law and cant be enforced. So, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude, on the specific facts of this case, that 
the general FCDO advice against travel to F amounts to a prohibitive regulation. 
Ageas has referred me to other complaints our service has considered, and not upheld. 
However, the facts of those cases are different to the circumstances in this particular case. 
And, for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im upholding this complaint.  
Putting things right
Im directing Ageas to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
Ageas should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr H and Ms Ms complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited and direct them 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman