DRN-4368294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with what Avantia Insurance Limited did after they contacted it 
about making a claim on the legal expenses section of their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have home insurance which includes legal expenses cover arranged through 
Avantia. In December 2021 they received a letter from solicitors acting for their neighbour. I 
understand this related to a boundary dispute and trespass claim against them. Mrs P 
contacted Avantia in January 2022 and asked if the legal expenses provided as part of their 
policy would cover this. 
The adviser said he thought the legal expenses policy would cover things like boundary 
disputes. 100%. Mrs P said shed previously been given conflicting information on this and 
the adviser suggested she get back in touch with the provider of the legal expenses policy (a 
different business) who would be able to clarify matters. 
Mr and Mrs P made further calls to the helpline provided by their legal expenses policy. In 
September 2022 I understand their neighbours issued legal proceedings. Mr P spoke to 
Avantia again. The adviser gave basic information about the policy but said the legal advice 
helpline would be able to provide further information. Mr and Mrs P subsequently made a 
claim on their policy which the insurer turned down at the start of October. It said their claim 
was for the defence of legal rights in a property dispute which the policy didnt cover. 
Our investigator agreed Avantia had given Mr and Mrs P misleading information about policy 
coverage when it spoke to them in January 2022. He didnt think theyd have acted 
differently if given clearer information as they were already aware of a dispute at that point. 
And it was unlikely theyd have taken out an alternative policy which would have covered 
them for that. But he accepted theyd have been unhappy to subsequently be told by their 
insurer their claim wasnt covered. 
Avantia agreed to pay £200 in recognition of the impact of that on them. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
accept that. They said theyd been told on a number of occasions their insurance would 
cover the claim between December 2021 and September 2022. And they also raised 
concerns the policy had been mis-sold and suggested they wouldnt have renewed in 2022 if 
they hadnt been told it would cover the claim they wanted to make. They also said they 
were unhappy with the action of their legal expenses insurer.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about what happened when Mr and Mrs P got in touch with Avantia after 
receiving the solicitors letter in December 2021. Ive listened to the call Mrs P had with the 
adviser in January and she did explain she was checking whether the policy would provide 
legal cover to defend themselves in a boundary disputes. In response the adviser said I 
would have thought that would cover things like boundary disputes. 100%. Given the policy 
didnt cover the defence of such a claim I agree that wasnt correct. 
However, I dont think Mrs P relied on that as confirmation the claim would be covered. She 
went on to say that conflicted with what shed been told by someone else. And the adviser 
confirmed the legal helpline provided by the insurer of her policy was best placed to advise 
on this. Mrs P confirmed shed check with them whether she was covered for defending a 
claim. 
Ive listened to a subsequent call Mr P had with Avantia (prior to the decline of their claim) 
and I dont think any misleading information about what the policy would cover was provided 
in that; the adviser made clear they werent in a position to provide detailed information 
about policy coverage and Mr P would need to contact the legal expenses provider for more 
information. 
I do appreciate having a claim made against them has caused Mr and Mrs P a great deal of 
distress. Theyve referenced the need, for example, for counselling and loss of earnings. Im 
sorry to learn about the impact all of this had. But Im only considering here how anything 
Avantia got wrong affected them. It isnt responsible for the decision to decline their claim or 
for anything they were told in their calls to the legal helpline. And I think the £200 Avantia 
has agreed to pay is enough to recognise any distress Mr and Mrs P were caused which 
results from the misleading information they were given in their January 2022 call.
Mr and Mrs P have also suggested they werent given clear information about the cover the 
policy provided for property disputes when they first took this out (which was in 2017). For a 
sale like this the relevant rules say Avantia is responsible for providing information covering 
matters such as the main benefits, exclusions and limitations of the policy. Im not clear 
Avantia did draw the fact the property disputes section of the legal expenses policy didnt 
cover the defence of a claim to their attention but I dont think it needed to. 
Taking into account what the relevant rules say I think it should provide information about 
things that would affect the decision of customers generally to buy. Im not persuaded the 
restriction in this case met that test. It only limits one aspect of the legal expenses cover as it 
relates to property disputes (and that cover is itself only one part of the broader home 
insurance Mr and Mrs P were taking out). I dont think more information on this would affect 
the decision of a consumer generally to buy so Im not persuaded information about it should 
have been provided to Mr and Mrs P by Avantia. 
In any case even if Mr and Mrs P had understood more about this, I dont think it would have 
made a difference to their decision making. The policy was sold prior to them knowing there 
was any issue with their neighbour so that couldnt have influenced their decision. And while 
Mr and Mrs P have made reference to the cost of the cover the legal expenses policy was 
included as standard with their home insurance and I understand they didnt pay an 
additional cost for it. I think its unlikely theyd have sought a different home insurance policy 
solely on the basis of a restriction in cover for the included legal expenses policy which they 
didnt know would impact them at that point. 
Mr and Mrs P have also said they might have decided against renewing the policy if they 
hadnt been told it would cover the claim they wanted to make. However, theyd already 
confirmed renewal of the policy in January 2022 prior to the relevant conversation with 
Avantia. In any event they were already aware of the dispute with their neighbour. So its 
unlikely any similar legal expenses policy would have covered what was by then a pre-
existing dispute. And, as Ive said, the primary purpose of their insurance was to provide 
buildings and contents cover for their property which is something theyd still have required.  My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Avantia Insurance Limited will need to pay 
Mr and Mrs P £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21c November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman