DRN-3334911
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has unfairly 
turned down her claim made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In September 2004, Mr and Mrs R purchased a timeshare contract with a company Ill call 
Business L. They paid a total of €9,558.82, using Mrs Rs Barclaycard to pay a partial 
amount of €655.88. So although the timeshare was in both of their names, this complaint 
against Barclaycard can only be brought by Mrs R. 
In July 2007, Mr and Mrs R again purchased a further timeshare from Business L. This was 
for a total of €9,270, with £1,323.27 being paid using Mrs Rs Barclaycard.
Mrs R has said that Business L misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshares. In 
particular she said they were told that there was a resale programme if they wanted to exit 
their agreements, but when they came to try to sell their timeshares they werent able to. 
They felt they had been misled when they were told that the timeshares had an investment 
element.
Unhappy with what happened, Mrs R instructed representatives to make a claim on her and 
Mr Rs behalf. In June 2019 a claim was made to Barclaycard saying that they could be held 
jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations under provisions of the CCA, namely s.75.
Barclaycard looked into the claim and turned it down. It said there werent the right types of 
arrangements in place to give rise to a claim under s.75 and, in any event, the claim had 
been made too late. 
Unhappy with the response, Mrs R referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into everything and agreed with Barclaycards overall decision. They 
didnt make a finding on whether there were the right arrangements in place as they thought 
that even if a s.75 CCA claim could have been made, it was made too late.
Mrs Rs representatives responded to ask for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman  for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator gave his view on 25 January 2022 and on 3 February Mrs Rs 
representative responded to ask for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman, but they 
didnt explain why they disagreed. They said a full, substantive response to the view would 
follow.
Having not heard anything further, our investigator gave a deadline of 10 March 2022 for 
Mrs Rs representatives to give us anything further they wished us to consider. But as 
nothing was provided, and that date has passed, I will issue a final decision based on the 
evidence and arguments already available on file.
Mrs R has brought a claim under s.75 CCA. That provision reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Barclaycard has said that there wasnt a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within 
s.12(b) or (c) CCA as the payment made on the credit card didnt go directly to Business L, 
but went to a different business. I think the answer to that question depends on the 
relationships and agreements between Business L and the party that received payment. 
However, Ive not needed to make a finding on that point as even if I thought there was the 
right agreement in place, I think Mrs R brought her claim too late.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier, Business L, would be brought under 
s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 of the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA) or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 
LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from 
the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mrs R brought a like claim against Barclaycard under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mrs R had six years 
from the date on which the case of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mrs Rs case, thats when she could have brought a 
claim for misrepresentation against Business L or the like claim against Barclaycard. I think 
that was the date she entered into the agreements to buy the timeshares, so in September 
2004 and July 2007. It was at those times that she entered into agreements based, she 
says, on the misrepresentations of Business L. She says, had the misrepresentations not 
been made, she wouldnt have bought the timeshares. And it was on those days that she 
suffered a loss, as she borrowed money from Barclaycard to pay for the agreements.
It follows, therefore, that I think the causes of action accrued in September 2004 and July 
2007, so Mr R had six years from then to bring claims against either Business L or 
Barclaycard. But she didnt try to contact Barclaycard about her claims until June 2019, 
which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA.
This was the conclusion our investigator reached too and Mrs Rs representatives havent 
explained why they disagree. Having considered everything again, I think Barclaycard acted 
fairly in turning down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has 
acted fairly and doesnt need to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman