DRN-3404042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fully settled a claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs B are represented by Mr J.
What happened
On 6 August 2019, Mr and Mrs B booked a cruise holiday. They were due to travel between 
24 October and 8 November 2019. They took out a single trip travel insurance policy through 
a broker on the same day they booked the trip. During the policy sale, Mr and Mrs B went 
through medical screening with the brokers call handler. Mrs B declared that she suffered 
from high blood pressure and osteoporosis. She also told the broker that shed undergone 
hip replacement surgery and had been prescribed Apixaban afterwards to act as a blood 
thinner. Great Lakes agreed to cover Mrs B for osteoporosis and high blood pressure. Mr 
and Mrs B paid £548.13 for their policy.
Unfortunately, Mrs B developed symptoms of heart failure and was advised against travel. 
So Mr and Mrs B had to cancel their trip and they made a claim on their travel insurance 
policy.
Initially, Great Lakes turned down the claim. Itd asked for medical evidence from Mrs Bs GP 
about her health. It noted that Mrs B had been diagnosed with atrial fibrillation in 2017, which 
she hadnt declared. It also noted that Mrs B had to be regularly monitored. And the GP had 
stated that itd been doubtful that Mrs B was fit to travel at the time the policy had been taken 
out.
However, Mr J appealed and so Great Lakes reviewed its position. It maintained that Mrs B 
had been asked whether she suffered from a cardiac condition and had answered no. But 
shed been diagnosed with atrial fibrillation in October 2017. So it felt Mrs B shouldve 
answered yes to this question. It carried out a retrospective screening to calculate what 
price it wouldve charged Mr and Mrs B for cover had she declared atrial fibrillation. This 
showed that Great Lakes wouldve charged £907.72 for the policy. Great Lakes concluded 
that Mr and Mrs B had therefore only paid 61% of the premium it wouldve charged had it 
known about Mrs Bs cardiac condition. And so it paid 61% of the value of Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the settlement and so Mr J asked us to look into their 
complaint. He said that Mrs B hadnt known that she suffered from atrial fibrillation. And 
shed been prescribed the Apixaban following the hip replacement surgery. He also felt that 
Mr and Mrs B hadnt been able to understand the questions the call handler had asked them.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had settled Mr and Mrs Bs claim fairly.  She didnt 
think that Mr and Mrs B had sought to mislead Great Lakes deliberately. But she thought that 
Mrs B had answered a clear question incorrectly. And she was satisfied, based on the 
evidence Great Lakes had provided, that if Mrs B had told it about her pre-existing atrial 
fibrillation, it wouldve charged Mr and Mrs B 39% more for their policy. As Mr and Mrs B had 
paid 61% of the amount they wouldve been charged by Great Lakes had its questions been 
answered accurately, she concluded that Great Lakes had correctly settled the claim 
proportionately and in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mr J disagreed on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf.  He maintained that Mrs B was unaware that she 
suffered from a heart condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I dont think that Great Lakes 
has treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs B took out the policy by phone, they were asked information about 
themselves and their medical conditions. Great Lakes used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Mr and Mrs B and if so, on what terms. 
Great Lakes says that Mrs B didnt correctly answer the questions she was asked during the 
medical screening. This means the principles set out in CIDRA are relevant. So I think its 
fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So I listened closely to the 
sales call between Mr and Mrs B and the call handler to find out what questions were asked 
during the sales process.
Whilst Mrs B was speaking with the call handler, she was asked: Has anyone
travelling on this policy ever suffered from or received treatment, investigations or tests for
heart attacks, angina, chest pains, any other heart condition? Mrs B answered, No, no.
In my view, having listened carefully to this call, the call handler did ask Mr and Mrs B clear 
questions in an understandable way. Im satisfied that Mrs B understood what was being 
asked of her about her medical conditions (as did Mr B). And given they queried earlier 
questions the call handler had asked them, I think if they hadnt understood the medical 
information they were being asked about, theyd have likely queried this too. 
Great Lakes maintains that in addition to the conditions that Mrs B did declare, she should 
also have disclosed atrial fibrillation. So Ive looked at the available medical evidence and 
thought about what Mr Js told us about Mrs Bs understanding of her health to decide 
whether I think she took reasonable care to answer Great Lakes questions.
The medical certificate completed by Mrs Bs GP says that the trip was cancelled because of 
worsening heart. The certificate asked when Mrs B had first consulted the GP with this 
condition and the GP answered: 1 Sep - Arrhythmia  AF (atrial fibrillation) diagnosed 
conclusively Oct 2017, irregularity 2011, mitral regurgitation 17/1/18. Further, the medical certificate asked the GP to confirm whether there was a history of the 
condition or other relevant conditions. The GP answered: see above with dates  gradual 
decline with sudden decline early October. They added that the date of onset was 18 
October 2017; that Mrs B was under regular review for the condition and that shed first been 
prescribed medication for it on 18 October 2017.
Based on the available medical evidence, I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to 
conclude that Mrs B suffered from atrial fibrillation and that she shouldve declared the 
condition to its screening line. The GP didnt indicate that Mrs B wasnt aware of her cardiac 
condition; that medication had only been prescribed due to the hip replacement shed 
undergone or that follow-ups were only in relation to the medication rather than atrial 
fibrillation itself.
Mr J maintains that Mrs B wasnt aware of her cardiac condition(s) though, so I asked Mr 
and Mrs B if they could obtain additional information from the GP regarding Mrs Bs atrial 
fibrillation. Namely, what medication she was taking for it; when it was prescribed; what 
follow-ups she was undergoing and whether Apixaban had been prescribed because of Mrs 
Bs cardiac condition(s), or as a blood thinner post-surgery. However, despite providing 
extensions for Mr and Mrs B to obtain this information, it hasnt been sent to me.
On the basis of the available evidence then, I dont think I could safely or fairly conclude that 
Mrs B didnt know she had atrial fibrillation or that therefore, she couldnt have declared it to 
the screening line. And so it follows that I think, given the above, that Mrs B shouldve told 
Great Lakes about her diagnosis.
I think its clear then that Mrs Bs diagnosis of atrial fibrillation did fall within the scope of 
Great Lakes questions. And considering everything, I think those questions were clear 
enough that Mr and Mrs B shouldve been prompted to tell Great Lakes what it wanted to 
know.
Overall, I think the available evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs B did make a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think Great Lakes is reasonably entitled to apply the 
relevant remedy available to it under the Act. Great Lakes considers Mrs Bs 
misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. I think this was a fair 
conclusion for Great Lakes to reach. 
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldve still entered into 
the contract but wouldve charged a higher premium, then it is entitled to reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on the claim. Mr and Mrs B paid £548.13 for their 
insurance policy. Great Lakes sent us evidence which showed that if theyd declared Mrs Bs 
atrial fibrillation when the policy was taken out, it wouldve charged an additional premium of 
£357.59. This means Mr and Mrs B paid 61% of the premium they ought to have paid. So I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to limit the settlement to paying this 
proportion of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs position, I think the settlement Great Lakes 
has paid them is fair and reasonable and is in line with CIDRA. So Im not telling it to pay 
anything more for this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman