DRN-3850907
The complaint
Mrs A complains through her representative, a claims management company (CMC), that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs A invested two lump sums of £1,000 into an Abbey National ISA in 1999 and 2000 and 
surrendered it in 2002. The CMC complained to Santander in 2022 on Mrs As behalf about 
the suitability of the investments. However, Santander didnt look into the merits of the 
complaint as they thought it had been made too late.
Mrs A then brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator thought the complaint had been made in time, but didnt think 
it should be upheld. He noted Mrs As recollections but didnt think there was any evidence 
of advice, or enough evidence to understand her circumstances at the time. He was 
therefore unable to support the claim that unsuitable advice had been given.
The CMC didnt agree with his findings. They thought there was clear evidence that advice 
had been given. The application form showed an adviser number and in the in section under 
Where did you hear about the Abbey National ISAs? the box labelled Branch/Advisor had 
been ticked. There was also another persons handwriting on the document, which in their 
view demonstrated that advice had been received.
They said theyd provided evidence in the form of statements from Mrs As main joint bank 
account for the relevant period. And they showed that she was advised to invest an 
inappropriate amount of her limited funds into a heavily equity-based product.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He thought, in summary:
Even if advice had been given, there wasnt enough known about what the advice 
was, or what Mrs A's circumstances were at the time of investing, in order to make a 
finding that Santander did something wrong. 
It wasnt uncommon at the time for consumers to have filled in application forms 
without any formal advice being given. 
The section on the application form which contained an adviser number was in 
relation to the back-office checks completed by the business when processing the 
ISA application. 
If formal advice had been given, hed expect to see the usual documents issued at 
the time e.g. a fact-find or suitability letter. Even though it'd been several years since 
these would have been issued, he was inclined to think these would still be available 
given the application form was still on record.
The CMC still didnt agree with him and as theres been no agreement the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. At 
the heart of this complaint are the issues of whether Mrs A was given advice to make the 
investments and if so, was the advice suitable.
Ive firstly thought about if any advice was given. There is a lack of available evidence 
around this point so Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities and what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mrs A has provided her recollections from the time and has said that she received advice in 
her local branch. However, I need to be mindful that the sale happened over 20 years ago, 
and that recollections can fade over time. I dont disbelieve that Mrs A discussed the ISA 
with a member of staff in branch, but I need to decide if theres enough evidence to come to 
a conclusion that the discussion constituted formal advice. 
Usually, when advice is given, there are documents detailing the discussion that took place 
and the recommendation that was given. Due to the length of time thats passed since the 
investments were made, the only documentary evidence available is the application form 
from 1999. While this doesnt mean that no advice was given, it makes it difficult to conclude 
that formal advice took place as opposed to a generic discussion about opening an ISA.
Ive thought about what the CMC has said regarding the adviser number on the application 
form. From what Ive seen, Mrs A completed the form on 22 March 1999 and applied to open 
a Stocks and Shares ISA with a lump sum of £1,000 and also a Cash Maxi ISA with a 
regular monthly payment of £57.60. The section of the form containing the adviser number 
wasnt completed until 31 March 1999 and contains details of how Mrs As address was 
verified. I think this shows that this section was possibly completed as part of the account 
opening process. I appreciate there was an adviser number entered but I dont think this 
conclusively shows that advice was given.
However, even I did think that advice was given, I dont have enough evidence to assess 
whether that advice was suitable. The CMC has explained that Mrs A was 30 years old at 
the time of the first sale in 1999. Shed recently given birth and was on extended unpaid 
maternity leave. She had no previous experience of investment products and used money 
shed been gifted to make the first investment and savings to make the second investment. 
The funds she used were the majority of her available assets. Theyve also provided bank 
statements to show Mrs As financial position at the time.
I think that a lack of investment experience doesnt automatically mean that a consumer 
cannot take some risk with an investment. But, in order for me to say that investment was 
suitable, I need to understand the wider financial position at the time, and the aims and 
objectives of the investment. Ive reviewed the evidence Mrs A has provided - statements 
from her joint bank account and the cash ISA, but I find the evidence inconclusive. The bank 
statements show that a salary was being paid in and then an amount transferred to another 
bank account. There doesnt appear to be any bills being paid from the account such as 
utilities or rent, and instead the account appears to be only used for discretionary day to day 
spending and cash withdrawals. 
Im also conscious that despite being on unpaid maternity leave, Mrs A managed to save 
enough money to invest a second lump sum of £1,000 into the ISA a year after making the 
first investment, in addition to saving a regular monthly amount of £57.60 into her cash ISA. Therefore, on balance, I dont think she wasnt in a position to not take any risk with her 
money as she appears to have had some disposable income. But Im unable to fully quantify 
this and I dont think that I have enough supporting evidence to conclude that even if advice 
had been given, it was unsuitable. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs A, 
but I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman