DRN-1577752
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs P. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997 alongside a store card account. Mrs P 
was sold the policy in the store, at the same time she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs P. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give her enough 
information so that she could decide if it was right for her. 
Ive looked at the information AXA gave Mrs P about the cost of the policy. AXA has 
provided a copy of the application form which Mrs P completed and signed for her account. 
Theres a section on this dealing with Payment and Purchase Protection. Mrs P has ticked in 
the place provided in this section next to the statement:
Yes, I want my account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance (subject to 
eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant premium until further notice
The cost of the policy doesnt appear to be shown on this application form. And it isnt made 
clear that, because the policys premiums will be added to Mrs Ps account, she will be 
charged interest on them. AXA says that information about the cost of the policy would have 
been available to Mrs P at the time of the sale and on information she received afterwards. 
But it hasnt provided evidence to show that this was most likely to have been the case. 
So, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mrs P was made sufficiently aware of the 
cost of the policy she was buying at the time of this sale. And I dont think Ive seen enough 
to persuade me that she was made fully aware of the benefit she would get from taking the 
policy either.I think this information would have been important to Mrs P. I say this because she doesnt 
seem to have had a strong need for the cover the policy gave her. Mrs P says that if she was 
off sick at that time she was entitled to full-pay from her public-sector employer for six 
months and half-pay for the next six months. And she also says she had savings of £2,500 
which she could have used to make her account repayments if she wasnt able to work. 
So, if Mrs P had been made fully aware of the costs and benefits of the policy when it was 
sold to her, I dont think she would still have chosen to take it. I think she would have thought 
her financial circumstances were such as to mean she didnt really need the cover offered 
and wouldnt have wanted to pay what it would cost her to have it.
In responding to our adjudicators view that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld, AXA 
questioned whether, given the comparatively short time shes been with her employer when 
the sale took place, Mrs P would have been entitled to the amount of sick pay she says she 
was. It has also said that it wasnt clear whether Mrs Ps savings were readily accessible or 
ear-marked for a specific purpose. Our adjudicator sought further clarity from Mrs P in 
relation to these comments. Mrs P responded by confirming that she was entitled to this 
level of sick pay from the start of her employment, and that her savings were being kept for a 
rainy day and easily accessible to her in need.
Ive no real reason to doubt Mrs Ps recall of her circumstances at the time of this sale. She 
was employed in the public sector at the time and, in my experience, relatively generous sick 
pay was not that uncommon in this sector at that time. So I dont think I could fairly conclude 
that she wasnt eligible for this level and duration of sick pay on the evidence Ive been 
given. And I dont think it unreasonable to assume that Mrs P would have had this level of 
savings put aside in case things went wrong.
So having thought carefully about the comments AXA has made and the reasons why it still 
thinks the policy wasnt mis-sold, this hasnt changed my view that Mrs Ps complaint should 
be upheld.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand Mrs Ps store card account is now closed, so:
 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs P would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove 
any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs P 
owed when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had 
PPI. If Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs P would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs P paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs P would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
 
D. AXA should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint against AXA France IARD and 
direct it to pay compensation as shown above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman