DRN-2348618
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) failed to tell him that the interest rate 
on his savings account changed when his account balance went over a particular threshold, 
thereby causing him lost interest.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in any 
great detail here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr B was unhappy with Sainsburys final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. But our investigator thought that Sainsburys hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with his complaint fairly.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In May 2019 Mr B opened a savings account with Sainsburys online. Part of the process for 
opening such an account requires each applicant to confirm they have read certain 
displayed information before proceeding further with their application. That information 
contained a table of the tiered rates of interest available on the savings account Mr B was 
applying for. Our investigator checked that was the case and found it was.
Following Mr B opening his account on line, Sainsburys sent him a Welcome Pack. That 
included information such as the general terms and conditions, the terms and conditions for 
the Sainsburys Bank Defined Access Saver account and a summary of key account 
information.
Mr B made multiple deposits to his account which at one point took him over the threshold 
and thus into the reduced rate of interest. That was on 8 October, and the following day 
Sainsburys wrote to him to advise that his account balance had gone above the threshold 
and explaining what he needed to do to bring it back in line with earning the higher rate of 
interest. Mr B did not receive that letter.
In his complaint to this service Mr B said he was unaware of the tiered interest rates. He 
candidly said that this was because he had not read the small print. He said he has no 
problem in the rate being reduced in itself, but feels Sainsburys should have contacted him 
by post, or by message on line, and had they done so he would have then been able to take 
steps to correct his account balance to ensure he was earning the higher rate of interest.
Ive considered all of the above, and it leads me to the conclusion that the information about 
the tiered interest rates was in fact given to Mr B, but it seems he didnt read it. He has said 
as much himself when referring to the small print. So, I cant criticise Sainsburys here since 
the information was provided for Mr B to read if hed wanted to. And as Sainsburys provided 
it on line and then posted it to him I think that shows they acted fairly. 
Our investigator has already made the point, but I shall repeat it, that this service is not a 
Regulator. Any overall concerns Mr B may have about Sainsburys business process would 
need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. We therefore dont have 
the power to make rules for financial businesses, or direct that they change their policy or 
procedures. 
This deals with Sainsburys decision to write by post to Mr B on 9 October. I appreciate that 
Mr B feels that Sainsburys ought to have written to him electronically given he had an online 
account, but just because he held such an account does not make communication by post 
unreasonable. So, I am satisfied that that method of communication was reasonable and fair 
and in any event I cant tell Sainsburys how they should communicate with their customers. 
A second point here relates to Mr B not receiving the letter. I accept he didnt as I have no 
reason to doubt him when he says he didnt get it. Equally however, Sainsburys have said 
they sent the letter and I have no reason to doubt them either. They have produced a copy 
of the letter they sent. I appreciate Mr B feels they might well have made it up, but I think on 
a balance of probabilities that is unlikely, given that to do so would be fraud and there is 
simply no evidence of Sainsburys doing that. So, it is likely that the letter was simply lost in 
the post, but I cant blame Sainsburys for that.
So, overall, whilst Mr B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Sainsburys has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman