DRN-1535087
Complaint
Mr and Mrs I complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy. The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and HSBC UK Bank plc is 
now responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to HSBC throughout 
this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs I its unlikely 
to be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs I genuinely and 
honestly feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. Their main point of complaint seems to be that 
they feel the MPPI wasnt necessary and that when they met with HSBC, they werent told it 
was optional or provided with the right information.
Nevertheless, the sale looks like it was in 1996, so these events are from 24 years ago. Its 
therefore obviously possible, and indeed understandable, that Mr and Mrs I might not 
remember everything that took place. Mr and Mrs I havent been able to send us any records 
about their policy and HSBC hasnt got any of the sale documentation left. Given the length 
of time involved this isnt unusual, but HSBC does have some computerised records Ive 
been able to see.
I can really only determine what is more likely to have happened because weve got so 
little to go on in this case. But my general experience of these types of HSBC sales from the 
1990s is that consumers were usually required to sign a specific form to agree to the MPPI 
being added to their mortgage. I cant confirm for sure that this is what happened here, but I 
do also note that Mr and Mrs I chose to have only Mr I covered. I find it quite unlikely that a 
policy would be portrayed to them as compulsory and then for only one party to be required 
to have the cover, on a joint mortgage. So Im afraid the policy being something they were 
told to have isnt something I find credible, even if it is their honest recollection.
In short, we have no signed paperwork left and very little information which makes a decision 
difficult. HSBC cant say if it recommended the MPPI as part of an advised sale. But if it did, 
this means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it was 
suitable and this is where I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Is main complaint point.I say this because Mr I appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests 
it wasnt affordable for them. Mr I implied he didnt need the cover because he also had 
sickness protection with his job, but this doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage 
was secured against their home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up 
payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover was 
payable for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to any other means they had 
in place at the time.
So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy for Mr I, I dont think it 
being recommended or put to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable 
product for their consideration.
HSBC also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Obviously I cant confirm whether it did everything right, but having discussed 
the cover I think Mr and Mrs I would have been given the supporting literature explaining the 
policy rules.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs I but I think there is enough evidence they 
probably engaged in discussions about this sale and would have gone through a number of 
steps to get the policy. I dont find anything that supports their complaint that the policy was 
mis-sold to them.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint. And I dont direct HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs I 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman