DRN-1790139
The complaint
Mr M complains that RAC Insurance Limited unfairly rejected a claim under his European 
Breakdown policy.
 
What happened
On 7 July 2019, Mr M was in a car that broke down while he was in Europe. He called RAC 
for help under his breakdown policy. RAC arranged for the car to be sent to a local garage 
for an initial diagnosis and provided Mr M with a hire car.
RAC was unable to get the garage to do the initial diagnosis quickly, and on 12 July Mr M 
asked for the car to be repatriated to the UK. RAC told Mr M it would consider this, but it first 
had to get an estimate for the cost of any repairs. RAC made repeated requests for this 
estimate from the garage over the next few weeks. In the meantime, Mr M returned to the 
UK.
On 12 August, the local garage told RAC that the car needed significant repairs to the 
gearbox. The cost of these repairs would be €5,098 to repair the existing gearbox or €7,588 
for a new gearbox. 
RAC valued the car at £3,400, so the repair costs would be greater than its value. This 
meant that the car was, in RACs words, beyond economical repair and the cost of 
transporting the car back to the UK wasnt covered by his insurance policy. On 14 August, 
RAC told Mr M that it wouldnt repatriate the car. 
In December 2019, Mr M confirmed that hed like RAC to arrange a second estimate for 
repairs. RAC told him that hed have to pay the local garage €4,271 for diagnostics and 
storage fees before it would release the car.
Mr M was unhappy with this and complained to this service. In summary, he complains that 
RAC:
failed to communicate properly with him and its European partners;
refused to transport the car to the UK;
quoted over €7,000 for repairs he could have done in the UK for less than £1,000;
told him he had to pay for the cars initial diagnosis; and
forced him to incur storage costs.
He wants RAC to return the car to the UK and cover any storage and diagnosis costs.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. He said RAC had acted fairly when it rejected Mr 
Ms claim. But he didnt believe it was fair for RAC to make Mr M pay for the initial diagnosis 
or storage while the car was awaiting diagnosis.
Our investigator asked RAC to pay for the cars storage until 12 August 2019  the date the 
local garage told RAC how much it would cost to repair the car  as well as the diagnosis 
fee. He also recommended that RAC should pay Mr M £100 for its poor communication 
while it dealt with his claim.
RAC accepted our investigators recommendations; Mr M didnt, so the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the main part of Mr Ms complaint  RACs refusal to 
repatriate the car. I do, however, uphold part of it, in line with our investigators view. Ill 
explain why.
First, Ive looked at Mr Ms insurance policy. This was a European Breakdown Cover single 
trip policy. And while Mr M isnt the registered owner of the car, his policy covered a two-
week trip in the car.
Section 6 of the policy booklet  Getting your vehicle home  says RAC will arrange and 
pay for recovery of a vehicle back to the UK. But it also says RAC wont cover any costs if 
your vehicle is beyond economical repair. 
The same exclusion is set out in two other documents that RAC sent Mr M when he took out 
the policy:
The policy schedule says cover for getting a vehicle back to the UK is unlimited 
providing your vehicle is not beyond economical repair.
The Insurance Product Information Document says, under key restrictions, RAC will 
not transport your vehicle home from Europe if it is beyond economic repair. 
Beyond economical repair is defined as when the total cost required to repair the vehicle 
is greater than the market value of the vehicle. So Im satisfied that RAC shouldnt have to 
repatriate the car if the cost of repairs is greater than its value.
I note that Mr M believes he can get the car repaired in the UK for significantly less than the 
lower estimate from the local garage. However, Im satisfied that this isnt relevant to RACs 
decision.
Section 3 of the policy booklet  Roadside assistance in Europe  says that if a vehicle 
breaks down, the total cost required to repair the vehicle will be based on the estimate for 
repair provided by the service provider in the applicable country in Europe where the 
breakdown has occurred. In other words, RAC can rely on the estimate provided by the 
local garage. This was €5,098 to repair the existing gearbox or €7,588 for a new gearbox. 
RACs internal notes say the trade guide valuation of the car in August 2019 was £3,400. Mr 
M hasnt disputed the value and Ive been able to confirm this separately. So Im satisfied 
that the estimated cost of repairs was greater than its market value.
I can understand why Mr M wanted to get the car returned to the UK once it became 
apparent that it wouldnt be repaired quickly. On the other hand, I think it was reasonable for 
RAC to get an estimate for repairs before it agreed to this. While this took just over a month, 
I can see from its internal notes that RAC repeatedly chased the local garage to get this 
done and some of the delays were outside its control. However, even if the initial diagnosis 
had been done quicker, RAC would have made the same decision. The delays, while 
frustrating to Mr M, didnt affect RACs refusal to repatriate the car to the UK.Overall, Im satisfied that the cost of repairs was greater than its value and that RAC acted 
reasonably when it rejected Mr Ms claim.
Turning to other costs, Mr Ms policy says hes covered for storage charges for the vehicle 
whilst awaiting the vehicle to be returned to the UK. But as set out above, the policy also 
made it clear that RAC wouldnt cover any costs if the vehicle was beyond economical 
repair.
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable here. RAC agreed with our investigator that it 
should cover storage costs to 12 August 2019, when it was told how much it would cost to 
repair the car. I disagree slightly. RAC didnt tell Mr M that it wouldnt repatriate the car until 
14 August. Given it took a month for RAC to get the repairs quote, I think its only fair that it 
covers storage costs to this date. After that, Mr M would have been aware that he would 
have to arrange for the car to be returned to the UK himself and liable for any storage costs. 
His message to RAC via social media in September 2019 confirmed that he knew he was 
being charged €15 euro a day storage cost.
I also agree with our investigator that RAC shouldnt have asked Mr M to cover the cost of 
the initial diagnosis. Section 3 of Mr Ms policy booklet says: If we are unable to repair the 
vehicle at the roadside, we will pay for the initial fault diagnosis to find the next course of 
action. It was unfair of RAC to pass this cost on to Mr M.
Finally, Mr M is unhappy with RACs poor communication and the delays diagnosing the 
problem. Ive reviewed RACs internal notes which show miscommunications between RAC 
and its European partners. As Ive said above, some of the delays were outside RACs 
control. But other miscommunications with Mr Ms hotel and the local garage clearly 
frustrated Mr M and caused him inconvenience. I agree with our adjudicator that RAC should 
pay Mr M £100 for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. I require RAC Insurance Limited to:
pay for the initial fault diagnosis for the car;
pay the cars storage charges to 14 August 2019; and
pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him by its handling of his 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman