DRN-4028176
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with his proposals to repay the 
balance of his interest only mortgage. He says it continued with legal action, which he says 
is unfair.
What happened
The term of Mr Ks interest only mortgage expired in 2015 with an unpaid balance. 
Mr K has brought previous complaints to this service about his mortgage. Our ombudsman 
issued a decision in 2020 which set out, amongst other matters, why she didnt consider 
requiring Santander to extend the term of Mr Ks mortgage beyond late December 2020 
would be a fair and reasonable outcome or in Mr Ks best interests.
The balance wasnt repaid. In May 2022 Mr K received a letter saying Santander would be 
taking legal action. He contacted Santander saying he had a proposal to repay the debt, and 
it agreed to hold action for 14 days. This was to allow Mr K time to provide evidence of his 
proposals to repay the mortgage. Mr K sent an email with his proposal.
Mr K then received further letters from Santander related to the legal action. When he 
contacted Santander it told him it hadnt received his email. This was incorrect. Santander 
had received Mr Ks email. However, it didnt accept Mr Ks proposal, as it didnt provide an 
imminent solution to repay the debt. Mr K says Santander sent threatening letters.
Our investigator said Santander gave Mr K incorrect information when it said it hadnt 
received his proposal to repay the mortgage. She said Santander should pay Mr K £100 for 
the trouble and upset this caused. Our investigator said it was reasonable for Santander to 
continue with recovery action after considering Mr Ks proposals, which didnt have a clear 
date for when the mortgage would be repaid. 
Mr K said Santander hadnt considered his proposal fairly. He said regulations require 
Santander to suspend action for a reasonable period when told the customer is developing a 
repayment plan. He said Santander told him it hadnt received the information hed sent, and 
asked him to re-send it, several times. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr Ks interest only mortgage expired in 2015 with an unpaid balance. 
Santander started legal action to recover the debt. Mr K says hes in negative equity and has 
been unable to sell the property.
I must first be clear about the complaint Im looking into here. That is, that Santander 
incorrectly told Mr K it hadnt received the email he sent in May 2022 with his proposals to 
repay the mortgage. And that it continued legal action and sent threatening letters to him 
after this.
Santander agreed in May 2022 to hold legal action for 14 days to allow Mr K to send 
evidence of his proposal to repay the debt. Mr K sent an email in May 2022 about his 
proposal. In this email, he said hed been made an award by a court and was in the process 
of enforcing this. He provided an extract from a court order issued in 2019 related to the 
enforcement process. Mr K said he was the beneficiary under a relatives will which was 
going through probate. He said he was waiting for the outcome of a claim to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme. 
Mr K received further letters from Santander and/or its solicitors about the legal action and 
contacted Santander. Santander told him  incorrectly  that it hadnt received his email with 
his proposal.
Santander did receive Mr Ks email, and it did consider his proposals. Santander said Mr Ks 
proposal wasnt acceptable as there was no clear timeframe for the mortgage to be repaid. It 
should have told Mr K this when he called. The earliest evidence Ive seen of it telling Mr K 
this was in mid-October 2022. If Santander had told Mr K sooner that it had received his 
email but his proposals werent acceptable it might have avoided inconvenience for Mr K, 
who says he sent his proposal to Santander three times. I think its fair that Santander pays 
compensation for this. 
Mr K says that regulations require lenders to suspend action for a reasonable period when 
told the customer is developing a repayment plan. I cant fairly find that Santander acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to continue with legal action. The mortgage balance 
became due in 2015. I think Santander has allowed Mr K reasonable time to develop a 
repayment plan. The proposal made by Mr K in mid-2022 relies on him receiving funds with 
no clear timeframe for when this might happen. 
Of course, if Mr K does receive these funds, he can contact Santander about repaying some 
or all of the outstanding mortgage balance.
Mr K says Santander sent threatening letters. Santander, and its solicitors, sent letters 
relating to legal action to take possession of Mr Ks property to recover the debt he owes. 
While it must be upsetting to receive these letters, I cant fairly find that its wrong or unfair 
for Santander to send these letters which are part of the legal process. 
I note that Mr K disputes what Santander said in its submissions to the court. This wasnt 
part of the complaint Mr K brought to us, and so I cant look into it here. Mr K will have an 
opportunity to respond to Santanders submissions as part of the court process, and this 
might be a more appropriate way for him to raise any such concerns.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £100 to Mr K, as its agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman