DRN-4055898
The complaint
Mr R complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd failed to keep him updated regarding the 
performance of an Executive Retirement Plan (ERP) or advise him that it had been 
cancelled with no value in 2002.
What happened
Mr R was a director of a company, which Ill refer to as E. In 1988, he was approached by a 
representative of Allied Dunbar Assurance plc (subsequently acquired by Zurich) and set up 
an ERP. The Policyholder was The Trustee(s) of the [E]  Pension Plan. Mr R was a 
member and beneficiary under the plan.
In 2020, Mr R approached Zurich, to enquire about taking benefits from the plan. He was 
advised the plan had been cancelled in 2002  only £600 of contributions had been made to 
it, and the yearly charges had gradually eroded that sum to zero. 
Mr R was unhappy that hed received no communications about this for decades, and the 
policy was worthless. He complained to Zurich, asking for various documents, including 
copies of original monthly statements, details of fund performance and charge details. And in 
the absence of this, he assumed a notional growth of 20% per year since 1988, now valuing 
his fund at about £342,000. 
Zurich responded, advising of the charges that had been applied, and why. Zurich said Mr R 
had been sent a letter shortly after the last payment into the policy was made in 1988 
advising charges would continue to be deducted. Zurich also said Mr R hadnt provided them 
with a new address after 1993, the Royal Mail having advised them Mr R had moved away 
from the address they had on file. And further, E had been dissolved by this time (this was 
not correct, the company was in Liquidation at the time, but had not yet been dissolved), and 
so they couldnt communicate with the company either. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr R brought his complaint to this Service. After initially being 
told our Service was able to look into this complaint, an Investigator eventually advised Mr R 
that this wasnt in fact the case. The Investigator explained this complaint would be better 
considered by another organisation  The Pensions Ombudsman (TPO). This was because 
the complaint was about an ERP, which is essentially an occupational pension scheme 
(OPS)  and complaints about the administration of any OPS is not something our Service 
has jurisdiction to consider. 
Mr R was unhappy with this, and after further exchanges with our Investigator, asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so it was passed to me to consider. And 
having done so, I thought this was a complaint this Service could consider. I set out my 
reasons for this in a provisional decision (PD), in which I also considered the merits of Mr Rs 
complaint. My PD said as follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I want to begin by considering the issue of our jurisdiction  is this a complaint this Service 
can consider? Our investigator thought not, but having very carefully considered the 
evidence here, Ive reached a different conclusion. Ill explain why. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction over activities listed in Section 2.3.1R of 
the DISP Rules, which says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaintif it relates to an act or omission by a firm 
in carrying on (1) Regulated activities
Regulated activities are defined in the FCAs handbook, taken from the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). 
The RAO sets out that, where certain specified activities listed within it are carried out on 
certain types of specified investments, they constitute a regulated activity. In his view, our 
Investigator explained that Article 89(2) of the RAO specifically states interests under the 
trusts of an OPS are excluded from that definition - it generally distinguishes that a beneficial 
interest in a personal pension is a specified investment (so a regulated activity), whereas a 
beneficial interest in an OPS is not. 
Our investigator also referred to DISP 1.19A, which says the scope of the rules on 
complaint-handling do not include:
a complaint about the administration of an [OPS], because this is not a regulated 
activity (firms should refer complaints to [TPO].).
Mr Rs Zurich plan was an ERP, which is a type of small OPS scheme, so the scheme itself 
is caught by the above restrictions in terms of any administration complaint brought against 
it. Those restrictions are clearly set out. 
However, its also important to acknowledge that most ERPs took the form of an insurance 
policy  premiums were invested into the policy with benefits intended to be paid out on 
retirement or death. And having reviewed the policy documentation provided by Zurich, I 
think this policy was a long-term insurance contract, and more precisely appears to have 
been a contract of pension fund management.   
This is important because pension fund management is one of the nine categories of long-
term insurance set out in Part 2, Schedule 1 of the RAO, defined as:
(a) Pension fund management contracts, and
(b) Pension fund management contracts which are combined with contracts of 
insurance covering either conservation of capital or payment of a minimum interest,
where effected or carried out by a person who does not carry on banking business, 
and otherwise carried on a regulated activityspecified by article 10(1) and (2).And where article 10 says:
(1) Effecting a contract of insurance as principal is a specified kind of activity
(2) Carrying out a contract of insurance as principal is a specified kind of activity
Under the ERP here, it appears Zurich managed a fund. The performance of that fund was 
linked to the value of that policy. The policy was structured to provide payment of a pension, 
payable under the schemes rules if the beneficiary (Mr R) remained alive. And I think that 
carrying out here can refer to the performance of the insurance contract  which includes 
paying claims. So, whilst Mr Rs complaint could be considered by TPO, I think Mr Rs 
complaint is also capable of being considered by our Service - on the basis Zurich failed to 
pay him out under the terms of the policy, and further considered on why the value of his 
pension has changed over time. 
But I also need to consider if Mr R was an eligible complainant. The policyholder was The 
Trustee(s) of the [E] Pension Plan. Mr R was the member for whose benefit it was set up. 
However, for the purposes of DISP 2.7.3R, which sets out who can complain to this service, 
I think Mr R was a consumer. I say this as when he made his complaint, I think its fair to say 
Mr R was acting for the purposes outside his trade, business or profession  he was acting 
as a consumer questioning what happened to his pension.
Also, DISP 2.7.6R includes:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises 
from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the 
respondent:
(5) the complainant is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent;
Furthermore, I note that Zurich has corresponded with Mr R throughout his enquiries and 
subsequent complaint, and essentially treated him as though he was the customer in relation 
to the policy (as per DISP 2.7.6 (1)). 
Its also worth commenting that E was dissolved in about 2002. I presume that E was the 
Trustee of the policy. But I dont think it matters that E no longer exists, for the purposes of 
bringing the complaint. The sole beneficiary was Mr R, and he is the person who has 
suffered a potential loss as a result of Zurich allegedly not carrying out the contract of 
insurance. And I should also highlight that, in Zurichs previous communications with our 
Investigator, they gave consent for this Service to consider Mr Rs complaint, 
notwithstanding the complaint relates to matters occurring more than 30 years ago. 
So, what the above means, in summary, is that I think Mr R is an eligible complainant, and 
that his complaint is one this Service can consider. That being so, I now want to address the 
merits of his complaint. 
First of all, I must acknowledge this complaint relates to something that happened many 
decades ago. Zurich have advised they dont retain most of the documents that were 
generated back then, including letters and statements that would have been sent to Mr R  
this includes annual statements, or letters sent after E stopped paying the premiums only 
three months after the policy commenced. Mr R has expressed frustration at this, and I 
understand this. He too has no documentary evidence relating to the policy, having moved to 
another country in 1994, so this isnt surprising either. What it means, in practical terms, is that I need to assess this complaint by reference to a 
mixture of the limited documentation Zurich were able to provide, Mr Rs testimony regarding 
what he recalls happening, and what Zurich have told us about what they are likely to have 
done at the time. And, taking all the above into consideration, Ill also need to consider what I 
think was likely to have occurred, based on a reasonable assessment of all the above. 
There are certain facts that appear not in dispute. Mr R applied for the policy in 1988 and 
agreed E would pay £200 per month into the policy. At the time, hed worked for E for about 
three years. Three payments were paid, the last (according to a screenshot provided by 
Zurich) being on 1 June 1988. Zurich have also been able to provide details showing the 
number of units purchased, their price and ongoing value, and the overall fund value at the 
end of each renewal period. 
And as per the Policy Provisions, only Capital Units were purchased with the contributions 
received. These attracted a 3.5% per annum charge throughout the entire term of the plan, 
would incur the whole of the annual management charge, and so would increase in value at 
a lesser rate than Accumulation units. 
Ive looked at the Policy Provisions document, and its clear these are charges and 
deductions that were permitted. This says, at Appendix A  The Funds, point 2:
Annual Charge: A charge at the rate of % per annum of the values of the 
investments... is deducted from the Funds
And at point 4, which deals with how Capital and Accumulation Units are treated for Fund 
value calculation purposes, in respect of Capital Units it says:
The income less [expenses associated with Capital Units in any fund], accrues to 
and is incorporated in that part of the fund to the extent it exceeds the rate of 3.5% 
per annum of the value of the Capital Units, and any shortfall below that rate is 
deducted from such part
And Appendix B  Unit Allocations, at Point 11 it says in relation to Expense Deductions 
and Mortality Deductions:
The Expense and Mortality Deduction applicable to this policy will be calculated and 
charged in accordance with the following provisions. 
And at Point 12, it says:
With effect from 1 January 1987 the Expense Deduction was set at £3.24 per 
month
What this meant, in very simple terms, was that Mr Rs plan would attract fixed yearly 
charges of about £39, together with a percentage charge of 4.25% of the capital fund 
values each year  which at the outset would have been about £26 per annum. So, in the 
early years, this would amount to about £65 per annum of the fund value  equivalent to just 
under 11% of the amount paid in. So, put another way, the fund would have needed to 
experience investment growth of just under 11% each year just to cover the yearly charges 
that were levied  to remain at a value broadly equivalent to the £600 paid in. 
Whilst I havent seen specific fund performance data in relation to Mr Rs plan, I think its fair 
to say that investment markets havent generally or consistently performed above those 
levels  and certainly not at the level Mr R has suggested in his submissions. Ive looked at the FTSE All-Share Index for the period between June 1988 and June 2002. 
And whilst this confirms a general and consistent increase in the market, the rate of increase 
was slightly lower in the early years of Mr Rs plan. And given what Ive said above about the 
level of charges that would have been levied, I can understand why the value of Mr Rs fund 
fell.
I also think its likely E, or more pertinently Mr R, would have been made aware of the plan 
charges at the time he applied for it. Whilst Zurich didnt retain any of the sales 
documentation from the time (other than the application form and policy documents)  
understandable given the passage of time  I think its likely Mr R would have been made 
aware of the plan charges at the time of the sale, and at the very least been provided with a 
copy of the Policy Provisions. 
Accordingly, I think the plan charges appear to have been correctly applied, and I think its 
likely Mr R would have been made aware of them when the policy was applied for as well. 
Furthermore, having considered the evidence available, I think its more likely than not that 
Zurich would have sent annual statements  providing an explanation how the fund was 
performing, and letters, to Mr R after the plan was taken out. When Mr R applied for the 
policy he was living at address X. Hes told us he moved to address Y sometime before E 
was placed in Liquidation in 1990. These were the addresses Zurich had on file for 
correspondence. Zurich have told us they became aware that Mr R was no longer at address 
Y when letters theyd sent in 1993 were returned by the post office. What this appears to 
confirm is that Mr R was in contact with Zurich at some point up to 1990  they were aware 
hed changed address, and that information could likely only come from him. It suggests he 
was ensuring Zurich knew to send future correspondence to address Y  suggesting post 
had been successfully delivered to address X before that and would then be sent to 
address Y after that.  
So, Im satisfied Mr R was likely receiving post from Zurich up until he left the UK in 1994  
which would likely have included statements, and letters advising Mr R of the consequences 
of no further payments being made to the plan after June 1988.
I appreciate Mr R left the UK in 1994, after the likely traumatic experiences of his business 
collapse, and loss of his home. Id understand if the seriousness of these events meant that 
Mr Rs focus at the time wasnt on his Zurich plan (which, after all, had only received three 
premiums in 1988), or that he doesnt now recall much about Zurichs communications at the 
time. It may also explain why Mr R didnt update Zurich of his new address. And as he said, 
he only recently became aware of the plans existence when enquiring about other matters. 
I acknowledge the plan remained in force for about seven years after Mr R left the UK  
seven years during which Mr R didnt receive any further information about how his plan was 
performing, or any warnings about its value eroding. On this subject, Mr R appears to be 
suggesting Zurich, given they knew he was no longer at their last recorded address, should 
have taken proactive steps to identify where he lived. Hes said:
[E] was forced into receivership in June 1990Evidently Zurich was aware of [this] 
and, with due diligencecould have obtained information including Receiver 
information from the UK Government who oversee these matters.
And 
The UK Government and Receiver would have assumed responsibility and 
oversight following [E]s receivership. I disagree with Mr Rs comments here. I dont think Zurich were under any obligation to 
contact the Receiver (or Liquidator) to find out where Mr R lived after 1993/4, nor the 
Government for that matter. 
I think the responsibility to provide an updated correct address was Mr Rs, although I think 
the facts here suggest this may be a moot point. There had been no contributions to the plan 
since mid-1988, and Mr Rs employer  E  had been placed in formal insolvency 
proceedings only two years later. As Ive concluded above, I think Mr R most likely received 
statements from Zurich up until 1993 at least. By this time, the value of the plan had reduced 
to about £450  and this didnt prompt him to do anything to increase the value of the plan. 
So I think it seems unlikely that receipt of further statements/letters would have caused Mr R 
to do something to prevent the plan from reducing in value further. 
To conclude, I think the charges that Zurich applied to the policy were in line with the terms 
and conditions. And I think its likely Mr R was made aware of those charges at the time he 
applied for the plan. I think its also likely he was made aware of the performance of the plan. 
Accordingly, Im not persuaded that Zurich have done anything wrong here, and I wont be 
asking them to do anything to recompense Mr R for the loss in value of his plan. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Zurich responded confirming they had no further comments to make. Mr R also responded, 
setting out in detail the elements of the PD he was unhappy with, which Ill now address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of detailed points and provided documents for me to review. I can 
assure Mr R that Ive fully considered all the points hes raised. But I think it would be useful 
to explain that the Ombudsman is an informal dispute resolution service, set up as an 
alternative to the Courts to resolve complaints between financial businesses and consumers. 
We consider the facts and evidence available to us in each case and resolve complaints 
based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
So, in deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the matter, 
rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr R, 
rather it reflects the informal nature of our Service, its remit and my role in it. And where 
theres conflicting information about what has happened, likely due to the passage of time, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probability, 
what I think is most likely to have happened.  
Further, Mr R has raised a number of points about the appropriateness of Zurichs systems, 
and the fact theyd failed to maintain most of the records relating to his policy. He questions 
why theyve failed to keep digitised copies of documents (something he believes has been 
commonplace since the 1990s), and generally believes Zurich have shown disregard for 
financial regulation and their duties as fiduciary. These appear to be complaints about the 
way Zurich operate/have operated their business and are not within my remit to consider. 
Such complaints would be better addressed to Zurichs regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), but these are not complaints that we will make on Mr Rs behalf. It is a 
matter for him to decide if he wishes to contact the FCA.So, with the above in mind, Ill now address what I consider to be the key points Mr R has 
made in response to my PD.
Communication from Zurich in the immediate years after the policy was taken out 
One of the fundamental themes contained in Mr Rs response to my PD centres around what 
he recalls is a complete lack of communication from Zurich after the policy was taken out, 
including receiving any letter(s) in 1988 regarding the premiums having ceased.
I appreciate Mr Rs concern here. And, echoing what I said in my PD, it would be 
understandable if his recollection of what letters he received about this policy 35 years ago 
may have faded over time. He moved abroad in the mid-1990s, and so not retaining any 
paperwork from that time is understandable. And Zurich have told us they no longer have 
copies of letters that were sent to him (or E). 
As such, and as explained above, I need to consider what I think more likely than not 
happened at the time. And, for the reasons I set out in my PD, I think its likely documents 
would have been sent by Zurich to the correspondence address it had on file. 
Mr R (E) had just taken out a new policy, and had only made three payments towards it  I 
think it would have been highly unlikely that Zurich wouldnt have contacted Mr R (E) to try 
and find out why, and explain the consequences of payments ceasing. It would, after all, also 
have been in Zurichs interest for the policy to continue to receive payments. 
I also have no reason to think Zurich wouldnt have provided Mr R (E) with all of the 
necessary policy documents at the time of the sale  this would have been part of the 
standard administrative process and I think it more likely than not to have happened. 
Zurichs communications with Es Liquidator post-1990
Mr R questions whether Zurich contacted, or should have contacted Es Liquidator after it 
was placed in Liquidation in 1990, on the basis E was the Trustee of the policy and the 
Liquidator became responsible for the affairs of E after that time. Zurich havent told us they 
contacted the Liquidator, so Im unaware if that happened. Im also unaware if Mr R made 
any contact with the Liquidator as part of this complaint process  but I dont think it matters 
in the context of this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Generally, one of a Liquidators key roles is to secure and realise assets for the benefit of the 
insolvent estate. Here, Es pension policy wasnt an asset that would vest in the estate, and 
so I think its unlikely it would have been an issue the Liquidator would have considered at 
the time. 
Furthermore, by the time of his appointment, it was nearly two years since E stopped paying 
contributions to the policy and so I question what, practically, the Liquidator could or would 
have done had there been any contact with Zurich. I dont think the Liquidator would have 
been required to do anything to safeguard the value of the pension fund, or question Zurich 
about the charges that were being applied. Mr R also questions if Zurich has been in touch with the Liquidator since he raised his 
complaint in 2020. Echoing what Ive said above, I think this a moot point. I dont think there 
is any valid reason for Zurich to have contacted the Liquidator - there appears to be no 
meaningful information the Liquidator would be able to provide to Zurich given what Ive said 
above about the Liquidators involvement at the time of Es Liquidation.     
The documents Zurich have produced as part of this complaint
Mr R continues to question the provenance of some of the documents that Zurich have 
provided, both to him and this Service. He thinks certain documents have been newly 
crafted by Zurich for the purposes of answering this complaint, and that I should only rely on 
documents that are indisputably part of Es policy. 
I agree the Plan charges applicable as at 1 January 2002 (plan lapsed 1 February 2002) 
document appears to have been prepared for the purposes of responding to our Service  
its a summary document outlining all the charges that existed on the policy. However, my 
PD set out where the relevant charges were mentioned in the policy document, and so I 
havent considered this 2002 document to be anything other than a summary to assist in my 
understanding of the case.  
Mr R also thinks I shouldnt rely on the Allied Dunbar Assurance PLC Executive Retirement 
Plan Policy Provisions document, as it contains no reference to E. I disagree. I wouldnt 
expect this document to contain specific references to E, instead E (and Mr R) would be 
referenced in the attached schedule  which they are. The policy provisions document is a 
generic policy document which would be provided to any policyholder who took out this type 
of policy at the time. 
Finally, Mr R says he has never seen a document called the Allied Dunbar Confidential 
Review and questions its relevance. This document is dated 8 April 1988 and appears to 
have been an information gathering questionnaire completed at the time of the policy 
application. As such, I dont think it has any bearing on the outcome of this complaint. 
Conclusions
Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling about this matter, I havent seen any reason for 
me to depart from my PD outcome. For the reasons Ive set out, I cant reasonably conclude 
that Zurich (or Allied Dunbar, as was) have done anything wrong in how they communicated 
with Mr R, that they were unable to correspond with Mr R after he left the UK in the mid-
1990s, or in the way they applied the charges to his policy. 
I think its more likely than not Mr R was sent documents by Zurich up until he moved away 
from his last recorded address in 1993  so five years after the policy started. I think hed 
have been aware E only made three payments of £200 into the policy, and its value was 
starting to erode by that time  and for whatever combination of reasons (which I dont need 
to know) no steps were taken to contact Zurich to explore any available options to prevent 
this. 
Accordingly, I wont be upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, whilst I think Mr Rs complaint is within this Services 
jurisdiction to consider, having considered its merits I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman