DRN-3177585
The complaint
Miss M brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of her late father, Mr M. She says that 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) took too long to process their 
decision on the beneficiaries under her fathers Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She 
says that this delay caused a loss.
Ive referred to Miss M throughout my decision. But reference to Miss M should be taken as 
Miss M, on behalf of the estate of Mr M. 
What happened
Miss M called HL in December 2019 to let them know that her father had passed away. She 
then sent the death certificate as requested. Miss M says she sent it by Special Delivery on 
27 December 2019. And that she is certain that HL wouldve received it on or before 3 
January 2020. HL said that they received the death certificate on 20 January 2020. After 
this, HL said they processed the death certificate and sent a letter dated 22 January 2020 to 
confirm receipt and to explain the next steps.
HL sent a valuation of the SIPP to Miss M on 11 February 2020. They also asked for 
additional information on the beneficiaries. The 11 February 2020 letter also confirmed that 
HL normally make a decision on beneficiaries within 21 days of receiving all the documents 
required. Miss M completed this request and HL said they received it on 25 February 2020. 
Miss M spoke with HL on the phone on 10 March 2020 to get an update. HL said that there 
was a discussion during this call about her needing to wait for the Death Claims Committee 
(DCC) to complete their review before they decided on beneficiaries for the account and 
then for payments to be made. 
Unhappy, Miss M complained to HL on 18 March 2020. She felt it had taken too long to 
distribute her fathers SIPP benefits. And that she was losing out financially as a result.  
HL wrote to Miss M on 19 March 2020. They apologised for the time it was taking to confirm 
the beneficiaries. And said that the case was due to be discussed at the DCCs next 
meeting, which they said should mean it would be considered in the next few weeks. They 
also said that each case was considered individually and therefore the length of time it took 
to process a case varied. But they said that they aimed to process cases within one month of 
receiving the request for information form back.  
HL issued their final response letter to Miss Ms complaint on 25 March 2020. They upheld 
the complaint and offered £100 as a gesture of good will for not being able to process the 
claim within their usual stated time period. 
HL contacted Miss M on 30 March 2020 to let her know their decision regarding the 
distribution of the SIPP benefits. The decision was conditional on Mr Ms wife having no 
objections.
Miss M spoke with HL on 2 April 2020. The agent told her that the SIPP funds were still 
invested. HL said that their agent tried to explain that the account being frozen meant that 
online access to the account was suspended. Miss M was told during this call that the 
account had fallen in value since the 11 February 2020 valuation.
HL said they issued options forms to Miss M on 2 April 2020. But that as shed said that 
payment could only be made to her, shed refused to return the options forms until shed 
received a further response to her complaint. HL also said that on 14 May 2020, Miss M had 
repeated that payment should only be made to her, so that her sisters benefits wouldnt be 
affected.
Unhappy with HLs final response, Miss M complained again in June 2020. She asked why 
the information request form HL had sent on 11 February 2020 hadnt been included with the 
request for the death certificate in the 22 January 2020 letter. Miss M said that HL had got all 
the necessary documentation by 25 February 2020, but that they couldve had that much 
earlier. She said that shed found out during a call with HL that the value of her fathers SIPP 
had decreased considerably since the 11 February 2020 valuation. She said shed had no 
access to her fathers account as her access had been frozen since his death. And that she 
blamed HL for taking too long to address the distribution of the SIPP benefits. Miss M also 
told HL that her mothers health had deteriorated due to the stress and anxiety HL had 
caused. And that shed lost the opportunity to buy a house to relocate her mother. She 
asked that HL distribute her fathers SIPP funds at their value on the date she notified them 
of her fathers death.
HL replied to Miss Ms complaint later in June 2020. They didnt agree that theyd caused 
unnecessary delay in distributing the benefits. They said that the circumstances arising from 
the Covid-19 pandemic had caused a slight delay to their normal process. They said that the 
beneficiaries had been agreed by the Trustees at the end of March 2020. And that theyd 
provided the relevant options form to request the benefits, so would be able to proceed once 
theyd received them back. They didnt agree that they were responsible for the fall in the 
value of the SIPP. They said that Miss M had the option to request a sale of the investment, 
as theyd explained in their 22 January 2020 letter. HL also said that theyd paid £100 as a 
gesture in recognition of time it had taken to decide on the beneficiaries.
Miss M felt that HL hadnt answered all of the questions shed asked, so she complained 
again in late June 2020. She said it hadnt been made clear to her that she could sell the 
funds in the SIPP at any time, as she was told that the account had been frozen, and she 
was unable to access it. She said shed been given the impression that the SIPP funds could 
only be sold once the Trustees made their decision on the distribution of the SIPP benefits. 
And that it was only after shed asked to speak to a senior person at HL that shed 
discovered that the fund wasnt frozen, but had decreased in value, that she had been given 
the option to sell. She said shed had no access to the SIPP and no way to check its value. 
Miss M felt that it was HLs responsibility to clearly explain her options, including the option 
to sell the SIPP funds at any time. She said it had taken 14 weeks since her fathers death 
for them to decide the beneficiaries. And that theyd caused her deep distress and worry. 
HL replied in late June 2020. They reviewed her concerns. But didnt agree that theyd been 
responsible for the fall in value of the SIPP. They also didnt agree that they hadnt provided 
clear information about accessing the investments. They said that Miss M hadnt been frozen 
from trading since shed first notified them of her fathers death on 30 December 2019. And 
that their 22 January 2020 letter had confirmed that the SIPP holdings would remain 
invested until distributed or until they received a sell instruction. HL acknowledged that Miss 
M was disappointed with the time taken to decide on the beneficiaries. But said that the 
process had only started when theyd received the death certificate on 20 January 2020. 
They didnt agree that the time taken had been unreasonable. But sympathised that it had 
caused frustration at a distressing time. And felt that their offer of £100 was appropriate. Unhappy with HLs response, Miss M brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the time HL had taken to 
communicate their distribution decision was slightly longer than could be expected. But she 
considered that HLs offered of £100 for the delays in communication was reasonable. She 
also felt that it was reasonable for HL to freeze the account, rather than the fund value. 
Miss M didnt agree with our investigator. So the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Miss M. Ill 
explain my reasons for this decision.
First of all, Id like to express my sympathies to Miss M and her family for their loss. 
From what Ive seen, the complaint is as follows:
-Miss M said she was never told that she could trade the SIPP funds. She said the 
account value dropped by approximately £22,000 due to not being able to trade. 
-Miss M said that HL caused delays in deciding on the distribution of the SIPP 
benefits. And that these caused significant stress and prevented her family from 
buying a property for her mother so she could be closer to her daughter.
There was an additional complaint about Miss M having to wait until HLs AGM took place. 
But from what Ive seen, this has now been resolved. 
Could the funds within the SIPP be sold while Miss M was waiting for the beneficiaries to be 
decided? And what was she told?
Miss M said she didnt know she could sell the funds within the SIPP while she was waiting 
for the Trustees decision. And that HLs failure to tell her led to a fall in value within the 
account of around £22,000. She said it was only after the pandemic that she got a valuation 
over the phone and was told that she could sell her shares over the phone. But by which 
time the value had significantly decreased. She said: I was unable to access the account 
online as I had tried on several occasions to check the fund value soon after my father had 
passed away. I was never made aware at any point that I am able to sell the shares over the 
telephone during any of my calls until I called them regarding the valuation. 
Miss M said that HL knew that the emerging pandemic would have an adverse effect on 
holdings.  And felt that as HL knew her circumstances and her need for a quick decision, felt 
they shouldve acted to ensure the value of the SIPP was protected. She also said that it 
was HLs responsibility to clearly explain what freezing the account means. She said she 
felt it meant: an investment account through which no transaction can be made.
HL told this service that they manage Mr Ms estate on an execution only basis. And that 
they dont provide any investment advice. Instead, they simply execute the instructions 
provided to them. They said that their 22 January 2020 letter had clearly stated funds could 
be sold during the wait for the Trustees decision. The letter said:
Any holdings will remain invested until theyre distributed, or we receive instructions from 
the estate executor or administrator to sell them, meaning their values may fluctuate. So they said that Miss M couldve submitted a sale instruction at any point during the 
process if shed been concerned about market fluctuations. And they said that as no such 
instruction was received: the estate of Mr M remained invested while the trustees decided 
how best to allocate the assets amongst beneficiaries. They also said that Miss M had the 
option throughout the process to contact them for a valuation.
During the 2 April 2020 call, which Ive listened to, HLs agent explained that the account 
being frozen didnt mean that the asset value had been frozen on the day of death. But 
instead meant that access to the account would be frozen. HL said that this was clearly 
stated in the terms and conditions. And in their 22 January 2020 letter. They said that they 
couldnt freeze the value of the account as of the date of death. 
Ive considered what both Miss M and HL have said on this issue. And Ive reviewed the 
relevant documentation and listened to the calls provided between Miss M and HL. Ive also 
reviewed the terms and conditions of the SIPP. These stated:
 on notification of death access to your Account will be frozen. Once we have received an 
original copy of the grant of probate your representatives will be able to sell or transfer your 
investments, but not buy investments..
I acknowledge that Miss M didnt realise that she could instruct HL to sell the assets in the 
SIPP at any point after the death notification. But the terms and conditions clearly show that 
she could have. So Im not persuaded that HL are responsible for her not realising this. From 
what Ive seen, HL also explained the situation in their 22 January 2020 letter. And I can see 
that HL also told Miss M, in that letter, that she could call them if she had any questions. I do 
appreciate that Miss M expected a different level of service under the sad circumstances she 
found herself in. But, from what Ive seen, HL provided the service theyd agreed to provide. 
So I cant hold them responsible for the fall in the value of the SIPP. 
Ive also found no evidence that HL stated that the SIPP value at the time of death was 
guaranteed. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
Did HL cause delays to the distribution of the SIPP benefits?
Miss M said that HL caused a number of delays to the process for the distribution of the 
SIPP benefits. She said that these delays led to a fall in the value of the SIPP and a financial 
loss.
As the SIPP is a discretionary trust, the benefits normally fall outside the deceaseds estate. 
So the SIPP Trustees have to gather information before they can decide who should receive 
the benefits. HL said they received this information on 25 February 2020. They said that they 
aim to process this information as quickly as possible, and normally within 21 days of having 
received the required information. They confirmed this in their 11 February 2020 letter.  But 
they said in their 18 June 2021 letter that the pandemic had prevented them from achieving 
their aim in this case.  Theyd communicated the Trustees decision on 30 March 2020, 
which was 34 days after theyd had the information they needed. HL offered £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill as they recognised the process had taken longer than theyd wanted it to.  
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the SIPP to see what they say about the 
distribution process. They dont state how long the distribution process might take. But I note 
that the 11 February 2020 letter said that their Trustees: normally consider cases and 
communicate their decision within 21 days of receiving all the documents needed.
Miss M said that she sent the death certificate by Special Delivery on 27 December 2019. 
And that it was then more than five weeks until HL asked for further information. She also said that HL were made aware of her familys hope to move her mother to a property nearer 
to her daughter. And that they needed the process to work quickly. She also said that HL 
took too long to send the valuation of the SIPPs assets. Miss M disputed the date that HL 
said theyd received the documentation. She felt it must have been received much earlier 
than theyd said. Miss M also said that HL knew that the emerging pandemic would have an 
adverse effect on SIPP holdings. So questioned why HL had taken no action to mitigate the 
issues or speed up the process given her familys circumstances at the time. She felt that HL 
had accepted blame for the delay in distributing the SIPP benefits when theyd offered £100 
as a goodwill gesture. But this was inadequate given the reduction in the value of the SIPP.
HL said they werent aware of any postal delays at the time, but that: on occasion it can 
take a small amount of time for post to reach the relevant team (i.e. to be passed internally). 
It can also be the case that the Royal Mail experience delays. They also said: While we do 
not guarantee any timescales as to how long this process will take, as it is entirely 
dependent on the complexity of the case, we have paid the sum of £100 in recognition of 
any inconvenience caused by the time taken to complete this process. They felt their 
timescales were reasonable. And didnt agree that theyd caused unnecessary delay in 
handling the estate once theyd received the death certificate on 20 January. 
HL said that they received the death certificate on 20 January 2020. After this, they said they 
processed the death certificate and sent a letter dated 22 January 2020 to confirm receipt 
and to explain the next steps. They sent a request for further information on 11 February 
2020. And received everything they needed by 25 February 2020. 
Looking at the time it took HL to get all the information it needed during this time, I dont think 
the time that it took was unreasonable. I acknowledge that Miss M feels it took too long, and 
that the information request sent on 11 February 2020 couldve been sent earlier. But Im 
satisfied that HL didnt take an unreasonable amount of time to process the information 
received. Or to send out an information request. I acknowledge that Miss M is unhappy with 
how long HLs process for the distribution of SIPP funds takes. But Ive found no evidence 
that HL didnt follow their normal process. And I cant ask HL to change their process simply 
because Miss M is unhappy with it. 
I consider that HL acted fairly and reasonably when they offered £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the extra time their process had taken. I say this because HL hadnt committed 
to a particular timescale for this process. But they had indicated that it might be completed 
within 21 days. And it wasnt, at least partly because the pandemic had made it difficult for 
processes to run as smoothly as usual. So, even though I acknowledge that the distribution 
decision took longer than Miss M wanted, Im satisfied that HL acted fairly and reasonably. 
And followed their terms and conditions. 
I acknowledge that Miss M said that HL shouldve provided clear guidelines on their website 
of step by step procedures in a manner in which any layman is able to understand the 
complexity of the processes involved. She considers that HL failed in their duty of care by 
not providing this. I asked HL to provide the information Miss M wouldve had access to from 
their website at the time of her fathers death. They provided the following information, which 
they said went live on 2 July 2019:
Losing a loved one
What to do when someone dies
The process you will need to follow as a representative for processing your loved ones 
assets depends on what type of accounts they held with us. You can find below a step by 
step summary of the different processes. If youre unsure of what type of accounts your loved one held, we will notify you of this once we have received the death certificate.
Pensions
1. Register the death
To find out more about registering a death in the UK or abroad visit [website 
details].
2. Notification of death
Call our Helpdesk on [phone number].
Send us the death certificate by post, either a certified copy or the original, 
along with a covering letter with your details as the sender. Please send the 
death certificate to HL, [address details].
3. Request for information
The death certificate is returned to you, and we ask that you provide 
information of any potential beneficiaries. The checklist we send asks for a 
copy of the Will, and a Marriage certificate if applicable. 
4. HL Trustees Committee
We review your information and appoint beneficiaries.
5. Option forms
Once the trustees have nominated the beneficiaries of the SIPP, we will send 
an options form to each appointed beneficiary.
The options form will detail the available ways to inherit the SIPP: i.e. 
Beneficiarys Drawdown, Beneficiarys Annuity or a Lump Sum Withdrawal. 
The options available to you will depend on different variables.
We action your closing instructions and provide confirmation of this to the 
acting representative. The deceaseds HL account will then be closed once 
administration is complete.
The website also explained how the account would be frozen. It said:
Freezing accounts
Once weve received a death certificate, all HL accounts in the deceased name will be 
frozen, and only the executor or administrator can sell any assets held. 
Values will continue to change in line with normal market movements. Dividends will 
continue to be paid from investments and interest will be applied to any cash held. 
This means there might be a difference between the account values initially given and the 
values when paid.
From what Ive seen, the website did contain clear guidance on what to do when someone 
died. So I dont consider that HL failed to provide a clear and transparent step by step guide to the process Miss M needed to follow. 
I note that HL told this service that they allocated £100 to the Loyalty Bonus account and 
raised a cheque which was sent on 26 March 2021. But acknowledged that this cheque was 
cancelled in July as it hadnt been cashed. 
HL have confirmed that the account is still invested. They also confirmed that theyre still 
waiting for Miss M to confirm whether she accepts their decision on how to distribute the 
benefits. They said that if she accepted the proposal, they could then issue the Statement of 
Benefit forms and begin the distribution process once completed.
Having considered what both HL and Miss M have said and the information theyve 
provided, I dont consider that HL need to do any more than theyve offered to do. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman