DRN-3711415
The complaint
Mr L has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc caused errors with a start date of a car 
insurance policy which led to him driving while uninsured. 
Mr Ls mother Mrs C is representing her son in his complaint. 
What happened
Mr L held a car insurance policy under a multi discount policy with AXA Direct. He changed 
his car. When he and Mrs C tried to update the policy online to reflect the change, it wasnt 
possible. 
On 7 September 2021 Mrs C called AXA. AXA confirmed that the reason why it wouldnt 
allow the change is because AXA Direct wouldnt underwrite the new risk. AXA offered to set 
up a new quote where Mrs C was the policyholder but Mr L would be the main driver. The 
agent thought this might allow for cover to take place. After going through this process, no 
quote was available. 
The agent was able to provide a quote if Mrs C was the main driver. Mrs C said at some 
point in the future she may be the main driver of the car. But right now, her son was the main 
driver. So Mrs C said they would look for a policy elsewhere. 
In September 2021 a policy was set up online through a comparison website with Mr L as 
the main driver for his new car. It hasnt been confirmed to me, but I have assumed either Mr 
L or Mrs C on his behalf set up this policy. The underwriter for the new policy was AXA. 
The start date for the policy was 8 October 2021. New policy documents were made 
available online and arrangements were confirmed to Mr L for the collection of payments  
which began on 13 September 2021. 
On 24 September 2021 Mr L was stopped by police as it couldnt identify the car as being 
insured. When Mr L called Mrs C, she said she realised immediately there was an error with 
the policy start date.
Mrs C complained to AXA. She believed the error had been caused by AXA. Mr Ls car was 
impounded by the police and he was charged with driving without insurance. Mr L is awaiting 
a court date. 
In October 2021 AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was a human error when 
setting up the policy online. However, it said it was clear that Mrs Cs intention was for a 
policy for Mr L to start immediately. Previous quote attempts online had shown a start date of 
8 September 2021. From her call to AXA on 7 September 2021, Mrs C said shed wanted 
the policy to start immediately. 
Mrs C brought the complaint to us in March 2022. In April 2022 AXA provided us with a copy 
of a letter of indemnity which was addressed to Mr L dated 11 April 2022. The letter said 
AXA would provide cover from 13 September 2021 to the date the policy was cancelled in 
March 2022. AXA said it hadnt yet sent it and would await guidance from this service.
On 15 June 2022 our Investigator asked AXA to send the letter of indemnity to Mr L. 
In July 2022 our Investigator issued his view. He didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought AXA had acted reasonably as it wasnt responsible for the error when the 
policy was set up online with a start date of October 2021. And as it had provided a letter of 
indemnity backdating cover to 13 September 2021, he thought this was a fair outcome as 
AXA hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs C said AXA didnt send the letter of indemnity - they only received the copy the 
Investigator attached to his view. 
Mrs C said there was a further call which she made to AXA on 10 September 2021. Mrs C 
said she asked for an immediate start date. So she said the error was made by AXA. 
The Investigator asked AXA to provide a recording of any calls made on 10 September 
2021. But AXA said it didnt have any record of a call from Mrs C. The Investigator asked 
Mrs C to provide proof of her call with AXA . Unfortunately Mrs C said shed changed 
providers and wasnt able to obtain a copy of her phone bill. But Mrs C says AXA listened to 
calls when it dealt with her complaint. She wanted us to ask the complaints handler for 
further information. The Investigator said that from listening to the available calls on 7 
September 2021, it didnt make a difference to the outcome. 
As Mrs C doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of the impact on Mr L and Mrs C since Mr L was stopped by police on 
24 September 2021. Mrs C told us they have paid for solicitor advice and have submitted a 
plea of guilty but given special reasons in their submission to the court. Mrs C says Mr L is 
still awaiting a court date. I understand that being stopped by the police - and having to deal 
with the consequences - has caused considerable worry and expense to Mr L and Mrs C. 
We asked AXA to provide a recording of the relevant calls including any calls to discuss the 
complaint. AXA has provided available recordings of the calls between it and Mrs C on 7 
September 2021. I understand Mrs C feels AXA is withholding information. She says the 
complaints handler made reference to other calls shed listened to. But Ive looked at the 
available information and I havent found anything to suggest this is the case. 
In AXAs complaint response letter dated 27 October 2021, it says theyd listened to calls on 
7 September 2021 - and when Mrs C called after Mr L was stopped by police on 24 
September 2021. There is no reference to any other calls or in relation to setting up the 
policy which was bought online with a start date of 8 October 2021. AXA told us it doesnt 
have a record of a call on 10 September 2021. And Mrs C hasnt been able to provide 
anything to show a call was made on this date. 
So there isnt anything to show me that Mrs C asked for a start date by phone for the policy 
that was bought online for Mr L on 10 September 2021. This was set up with a start date of 8 
October 2021. The policy documents which followed confirmed the start date as the same. 
So I think there was a human error by the individual who bought the policy online. And when 
an insurer issues policy documents, the onus is on the customer to check the information is 
correct. 
The Certificate of Motor Insurance and policy schedule showed that the start date was 8 
October 2021. 
From listening to the call on 7 September 2021, its very clear that Mrs C wanted to make 
absolutely sure that her son Mr L was correctly insured for his change of car. And so I am 
very sympathetic to the situation the family are dealing with, the ongoing and potential 
consequences and the worry it is causing. However, I cant say that AXA has done anything wrong. From the information available, 
either Mrs C or Mr L set up a policy online on 10 September 2021 with a start date of 8 
October 2021. I think this was an accident. And AXA has provided a letter of indemnity for 
Mr L to show to the courts to confirm it is prepared to provide cover backdated to 13 
September 2021. I understand Mrs C is unhappy and believes AXA should have provided 
this sooner. But AXA has provided this as a gesture of goodwill and it is more than AXA 
needed to do. So I think it represents a fair outcome in this case. 
I understand Mrs C and Mr L will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im 
not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman