DRN-2911415
The complaint
Mrs R complains that the Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited gave her incorrect 
information about the deadline for returning the forms when she took her pension payout, 
and as a result she received a lower payment.
What happened
Mrs R was thinking about taking her pension benefits and emailed Royal London in January 
2020 requesting a retirement quote. She was sent a retirement pack dated 21 January 2020. 
The documents said the assumed retirement date was 21 February and the value of the 
pension pot wasnt guaranteed; the actual amount at the retirement date might be higher or 
lower than shown.
The documents set out the options for how to take the pension and said to call when she 
had decided what to do. Mrs R phoned on 6 February 2020 to request payment of the full 
amount in her pension. The call handler said they would send some documents for her to 
sign and if she returned the form by 21 March, they would use the value given for 21 
February.
On 25 February Mrs R phoned again to say she hadnt received anything. The call handler 
said he could email the form to her. He sent the email while they were speaking and said if 
she could print it out and then sign and return it, they would process the payment. 
Mrs R returned the signed form, which Royal London received on 2 March. It used the value 
on that date for the payment to Mrs R. By this time, the value had fallen from the figure 
originally quoted to Mrs R. So she complained that she had lost out and said Royal London 
should honour the figure quoted to her, as shed been told that figure would be used up to 21 
March.
Royal London accepted she had been given wrong information in the phone call on 6 
February and paid compensation of £100 in recognition of the error. But it said she wasnt 
entitled to the higher value. 
When Mrs R brought the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. So she has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The covering letter for the retirement pack sent to Mrs R in January said it was a quote for 
retirement on 21 February. It said the value quoted would change, but should you go ahead 
with claiming your pension, and have returned the necessary paperwork well before 21st 
February, you have the right to ask us to process the claim immediately. 
The pack enclosed with the letter included the following information about the value of her 
pension:
The value of your pension pot is not guaranteed. The actual amount youll receive at your 
retirement date may be higher or lower than shown.
So I think it was clear from the documents that the amount given was not guaranteed and 
could change. Mrs R didnt return the signed from by 21 February. The value wasnt  
guaranteed and she wasnt entitled to the valuation given. But Mrs R says she was misled 
into thinking she didnt have to return the form by that date, and that has caused her a loss.
It wouldnt be fair if Mrs R suffers a loss because she acted to her detriment, relying on 
wrong information. To consider this, Ive listened to the recordings of the phone calls Mrs R 
had with Royal London. In the call on 6 February, shes told that if she returns the form by 21 
March, the valuation date of 21 February would still be used. Royal London accepts that was 
incorrect. But in the call on 25 February she said she couldnt remember exactly what she 
had to do next, but thought the call handler had said shed send a form, so she was calling to 
check. Towards the end of the call, she says I honestly couldnt remember what was next 
and I know I definitely hadnt had any forms so I thought Id just make a call and follow it up
As Ive said, the documents sent to her were clear that the pension funds were invested, and 
the value wasnt guaranteed and would be subject to change. And I dont think she was 
relying on the information given to her in the phone call, if she couldnt remember what shed 
been told or what she had to do. I appreciate she would have been upset to find that the 
value had fallen, but I dont think she was entitled to the higher value in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman