DRN-3613388
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have unfairly refused to refund 
over £79,000 she lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Miss B transferred over £6,800 to Cointix.com using her debit card 
over nine separate transactions. She subsequently transferred over £72,000 to Xshop OU 
via bank transfer over 10 separate transactions, of which she had taken out several loans to 
fund. These payments were made as a result of her interactions with the merchant 
InvestXE who she thought was investing with but turned out to be a scam. 
Miss B subsequently discovered she had been scammed after she refused to place any 
further investments and was unable to withdraw her money as her trading platform showed 
that all her funds had been lost.
Barclays refused to refund the money Miss B had lost as it said she had authorised the 
transactions and also said she was happy to proceed with them after they intervened and 
had provided scam warnings. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She acknowledged that Barclays had intervened in 
some of the scam payments Miss B was attempting to make, but she didnt think they ought 
to have accepted her explanations at face value given the unusual patterns of spending, as 
well as the fact that three loans of £10,000 had recently been deposited in to her account. 
The investigator thought that Barclays could have invoked the Banking Protocol and asked 
the police to attend the branch, which would have likely uncovered the scam. 
However, she thought that Miss B was partly responsible for the loss as she failed to 
question why she was being told to lie to her bank about the reason for the payments. As a 
result, the investigator thought that Barclays should only refund 50% of the payments 
starting from the £20,000 payment Miss B made on 5 August 2021.
Barclays accepted the investigators proposals but said that Miss B had also received three 
credits from the scammer, which it proposed to deduct 50% from the money to be refunded. 
Our investigator thought it was fair for Barclays to deduct 50% of any credits Miss B had 
received from the scammers and considered its offer to be fair. 
Miss B disagreed as she didnt think her settlement should be reduced by 50%. Because she 
didnt agree, the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as I consider 
Barclays settlement offer to be fair. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Miss B considers Barclays should refund all the scam payments she 
made from 12 May 2021 onwards. However, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to provide a refund from the £20,000 payment Miss B made on 5 August 
2021, as this is the point where it ought reasonably to have invoked the banking 
protocol and contacted the police. I acknowledge that Miss B had made payments in 
branch prior to 5 August as well, but the amount she was attempting to pay before 
were not of large or significant amounts, and there was little by way of unusual 
activity on her account at the time. Barclays had also warned Miss B that she could 
be being scammed at this point, but she provided reassurances and was happy to 
proceed. 
So, Im not persuaded Barclays can fairly be held liable for the payments Miss B 
made before 5 August 2021 or that there was enough cause to invoke the Banking 
Protocol and contact the police before this point. However, by the time she came to 
make the £20,000 transfer, she had only given vague explanations for what the 
money was for and it is clear from Barclays system notes that it was concerned she 
was being scammed. So, this is the point Barclays ought to have contacted the police 
to come and talk to Miss B in line with the Banking Protocol, but it failed to do so. If 
they had, I think its likely Miss B would have told the police what she was doing, and 
the scam would have probably unraveled. As a result, Im satisfied it is fair for the 
bank to be held liable for the scam payments Miss B made from this point onwards. 
I appreciate that Miss B disagrees with the investigators recommendation for 
Barclays to only refund 50% of the payments she made as a result of her own 
contributory negligence. But Im satisfied that this reduction in settlement is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, as I think Miss Bs actions mean that she should 
share responsibility for the loss she has sustained.
When Miss B was questioned in branch about the £20,000 payment she was making, 
she told Barclays it was for financial services and educational purposes, as the 
scammer had told her not to tell the bank the real reason for the payment (i.e. for 
investment). She had also been told by the scammer to input false information into 
her loan applications with regards to the reason behind the borrowing, which she did. 
However, being told to lie to financial institutions ought reasonably to have alerted 
Miss B to the fact that something wasnt right, as a legitimate investment firm would 
not ask its customers to do this as it could, in some instances, even amount to fraud. 
Therefore, I think Miss B ought reasonably to have suspected that she was at risk of 
financial harm and should have carried out further checks on the broker, but she 
failed to do so. As a result, Im satisfied that her own negligence has contributed to 
her loss, and that a 50% deduction is a fair in the circumstances.
Barclays has since agreed to refund 50% of the payments Miss B made from her 
account from the £20,000 payment onwards, but said that they would also look to 
deduct 50% of the credits Miss B received into her account from the scammer. Given 
this was money that was paid back to Miss B and wouldve reduced her overall loss, 
Im satisfied Barclays proposal to deduct 50% of the credits received is fair.
Barclays has also said that it would use £14,546.90 of Miss Bs settlement to wipe 
the remainder of the £15,000 loan she had taken out with it. I understand that Miss B 
has raised a separate complaint about this loan, as she thinks that Barclays lent her 
the money irresponsibly. So, I will not be commenting on whether Barclays was right 
to lend the money within this decision, or whether it is entitled to charge interest, as 
this will form part of the separate complaint being considered by this service. However, if there is capital outstanding on the loan Miss B has taken out with 
Barclays which is still to be paid, I do not think it would be unfair for Barclays to use 
part of Miss Bs settlement to offset any debt it is owed, as this is money Miss B 
would eventually have to pay back in any event. Whether it chooses to refund the 
entirety of the money to Miss B or whether it chooses to apply part of it to offset her 
debt will be a decision to be made by Barclays at its own discretion. But Im satisfied 
it would be entitled to apply part of Miss Bs redress to offset an outstanding debt if it 
so chooses.
I appreciate this will not be the full outcome Miss B was hoping for, and Im sorry to hear she 
has been the victim of such a cruel scam, as well as the impact this has had on her. But in 
the circumstances Im satisfied that the offer made by Barclays to settle her complaint is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund the payments Miss B made to the scammers from 5 August 2021 onwards, 
less 50% of any credits she received from the scammers, along with a 50% 
deduction for contributory negligence on this total loss; and
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this sum from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman