DRN-3808048
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Ms B, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Ms B responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Wheel damage
The BVRLA guidelines state, any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the 
alloy wheel is not acceptable and scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.
The VRS says there should be no scuffs or scratches on the wheels that exceeds 25mm.
Wheel left hand front
Theres damage to a spoke and scratches in excess of 25 mmm showing in both inspection 
photographs so I think a charge is reasonable as the damage exceeds the guidance.
Wheel left hand rear
The second inspection shows damage to the spoke and a scratch to the rim in excess of 
25mm. That damage is more difficult to identify in the first inspection photograph, but I think 
it is there as I can see shading in the areas where the second inspection photograph shows 
a clearer picture of the damage. I think a charge is therefore reasonable as the damage 
exceeds the fair wear and tear guidance.
Wheel right hand front
There is spoke damage in excess of 25mm showing in both inspection photographs and I 
think the damage is therefore beyond the fair wear and tear guidance and is chargeable.
The compressor and tyre sealant
The VRS guidance says, you must return the vehicle together with everything originally 
supplied with the vehicle.
The BVRLA guidance explains that consumers should replace any missing equipment or 
accessories before the vehicle is returned.
Theres no dispute here that the compressor and tyre sealant werent present and therefore 
a charge is applicable.
Ms B says the Mercedes assistance company must have used those items when they were 
called out to help her, but the responsibility to ensure the items are replaced is Ms Bs and if 
she has a complaint about the assistance companys actions that can only be levied against 
them. MBFS have explained they have no affiliation with that company.
So, I think the charges that remain have been evidenced to be beyond normal wear and tear 
and are therefore chargeable.
Other issues
Ms B says that the repairs must be completed or that MBFS need to demonstrate a loss 
before making charges for the damage. I dont agree. The terms of the hire agreement 
explain that the car must be returned in a good working condition and that charges may 
otherwise be applied. As the condition is beyond what would be considered acceptable 
under the industry, and Mercedes, guidance, I think the charges can fairly be made. The 
BVRLA guidance explains that charges can still be applied at the end of the lease where a 
business decides for commercial reasons not to repair damage or replace equipment. 
There is no requirement for a business to reduce any refurbishment charges if, as is the 
case here, a car is returned having completed less than the maximum contractual mileage.
Whilst I understand Ms B has suggested the first inspector of the car is happy to provide 
testimony that the car was in a satisfactory condition I am not persuaded that evidence 
would help here. I think the damage that is being charged for is evident in the photographs 
taken in the first and second inspections and I dont think it can therefore be fairly 
challenged.
It's clear that some charges that were initially levied were unreasonable, but I can see that 
MBFS have been prepared to reconsider them and to remove them. I dont therefore think 
its necessary to consider those items and I think MBFSs actions, when waiving those 
charges, has been reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman