DRN-3045946
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled her 
chargeback claim for her holiday accommodation which she was unable to use due to Covid-
19.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs S booked a holiday, for 3 April 2020. She booked her holiday 
accommodation through a travel agent who I will refer to as T in this decision. The total cost 
of her accommodation was £2,198.14 and was paid for using her Nationwide credit card. 
On 18 March 2020, T emailed Mrs S and explained that due to Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) guidance not to travel to certain destinations, she would not be able to travel 
and use her accommodation. It explained that it was liaising with the resort about its current 
position and would be in touch when it had further information.
On 19 March 2020 T emailed Mrs S to say as it had been unable to establish the resort 
suppliers position, she should make a travel insurance claim based on the travel restrictions 
in place. T said it wouldnt be offering a rebooking or refund option and provided a link to its 
terms. A further letter from T was sent in May 2020 reconfirming its position to Mrs S.
Mrs S contacted her travel insurer who advised her to raise a claim under Section 75 of
the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which she did on 6 May 2020 with Nationwide. Nationwide 
sent an acknowledgement and asked her to fill out a claim form and to send appropriate 
documentation with it. Mrs S said she forwarded all the emails shed received from T to 
Nationwide, including the original letter from T stating she wouldnt be able to use her 
booked accommodation, nor get a refund or postponement.
In July 2020 Mrs S emailed and called Nationwide for an update. Nationwide informed her it 
couldnt open her PDF documents, so she sent the documents again. When Nationwide 
received this, it said it could take six to eight weeks to review her claim.
On 4 August 2020 Nationwide wrote to Mrs S to say that the transaction in question had 
been placed into dispute on her account, and that she was not expected to repay this, nor 
would she incur any interest charges, on the disputed amounts whilst it was investigating. 
Nationwide also asked her to provide additional documentation to fully assess her claim.
On 6 August 2020 Mrs S raised a complaint with Nationwide about the delays. She said she 
was being asked to provide further information which shed already provided three times. 
Mrs S also sent a copy of Ts most recent letter, dated 11 August 2020, reconfirming she 
was unable to travel to her accommodation and no refund or rebooking option was available.
On 19 August 2020 Nationwide sent Mrs S two letters. The first letter was a final response 
letter not upholding her complaint explaining Mrs S hadnt provided suitable evidence prior to 
11 August 2020. The second letter was Nationwide requesting further information to show 
the merchant had cancelled the booking, as the invoice provided only stated Mrs S was 
unable to travel. Nationwide also said as one payment went directly to the booked 
accommodation, it wanted any evidence to show Mrs S had attempted to resolve the matter 
directly with it.
On 13 September 2020 Mrs S emailed Nationwide. She was unhappy at being asked to 
provide additional evidence which shed already provided numerous times and she clarified 
again what had already been sent in. 
On 5 October 2020 Nationwide wrote to Mrs S to say from the information provided, there 
was no basis for it to raise a claim against the merchant, as the service was still offered, 
even if shed been advised not to travel by the FCO.
On 15 October 2020 Mrs S called Nationwide and said she received no response to her 
complaint. The final response letter was re-sent to Mrs S and she continued to contact 
Nationwide throughout October 2020 about her complaint and claim.
On 17 November 2020 Mrs S wrote to the CEO of Nationwide and in summary explained 
how shed experienced poor service and lack of communication since raising her dispute. 
She said she was aware that she should continue making payments, but since stopping this, 
she believed she had been kept updated on both her claim and complaint regularly by 
Nationwide. She apologised for withholding the monthly payments and said she would settle 
her credit amount in full, minus the £2,198.14 which she still felt was owed to her by 
Nationwide. She went on to clear the balance minus the disputed amount on 4 December 
2020. 
In January 2021 Mrs S contacted Nationwide for an update. In February 2021 Mrs S 
contacted the hotel directly, who provided confirmation that it was closed during the dates of 
her stay, and the country she was due to visit also had its own lockdown in place during this 
time. Following receipt of this, Nationwide said it raised a chargeback on 17 February 2021 
and provided Mrs S with a full refund. 
Mrs S remained unhappy with how Nationwide had dealt with her chargeback claim. She 
also became aware of late payment markers being recorded on her credit file by Nationwide 
and wanted our service to consider these issues.
When an investigator at our service reviewed Mrs S case, she said from looking at the 
chargeback rules and guidance from Visa, she thought Nationwide shouldve raised the 
chargeback earlier than it did. For the overall poor service and how it handled Mrs S 
chargeback claim, the investigator thought Nationwide should pay her £150.
In terms of the recording of adverse credit file information, although Mrs S said she was told 
the whole amount on her credit card was frozen and she didnt need to make payments, as 
the outstanding balance also included other spending not connected to the disputed amount, 
the investigator said Mrs S still had an obligation to meet her contractual monthly 
repayments. As Mrs S didnt do this, the investigator thought Nationwide acted reasonably in 
registering the arrears information for October and November 2020. 
However, for the adverse late fee marker placed for January 2021, the investigator thought 
Nationwide should remove this, as Mrs S had cleared the amount for the additional spending 
by that time, and in December 2020 she was also told that the remaining disputed amount 
was frozen.
Nationwide maintained that it couldnt have raised the chargeback earlier, as it was still 
waiting for evidence to show there was a cancellation made by the supplier, and once it 
received this, it raised the chargeback. However, it did go on to accept the investigators 
recommendations and agreed to pay £150 to Mrs S. In terms of Mrs S credit file, Nationwide maintained the adverse information should stay for the months of October and November 
2020, but it agreed to remove the information recorded for the month of January 2021.  
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and in summary explained:
If Nationwide had raised the chargeback earlier, dealt with her submissions properly, 
and met its own timeframes, the chargeback wouldve been successful, and the 
dispute over the adverse entries on her credit file wouldnt have occurred.
She didnt agree with receiving an adverse marker for the months of October and 
November 2020, as Nationwide had reported three and four months of missed 
payments, which was incorrect as those months covered the period in which her 
account was in query and the account was frozen. Mrs S also said Nationwide 
shouldve produced late payment letters for these months, but it didnt.
She would accept one month of missed payment, showing in her credit file, as per 
her email sent to Nationwide in November 2020, but to accept any further late 
payments was not a fair representation of the situation, especially as she had no 
previous adverse information recorded on her credit file. 
The compensation of £150.00 was of little interest and didnt cover costs, or time 
incurred on this dispute 
As Mrs S didnt ultimately agree with the investigators view, the case has been passed to 
me to make a final decision on this case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigators opinion. I appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to Mrs S, but Ill explain my reasoning below. 
In order to consider if Nationwide has treated Mrs S fairly here  I need to think about 
whether it should have done more to assist her in getting her money back. That means 
considering whether Nationwide did enough in respect of the chargeback process and, if 
necessary, if its response to the Section 75 claim was fair and reasonable. 
Here, as I am upholding Mrs S complaint on the basis that Nationwide should have done 
more to assist her via the chargeback process, and my proposed redress in respect of that 
fairly, puts things right for Mrs S, I dont need to further consider the position under Section 
75.
As both parties have now confirmed that the chargeback was successful, and the money 
was credited to Mrs S account in February 2021, I will deal with the outstanding issues of 
the delays and the associated level of service that Mrs S received from Nationwide when it 
dealt with her chargeback and the adverse information it recorded on her credit file.
The service Mrs S received from Nationwide  
It might be helpful if I start off by explaining that in some cases a bank may be able to 
request a refund from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which 
payment settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. 
They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case that is the 
VISA card scheme. In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Nationwide to 
ask for a payment Mrs S made to be refunded. Those circumstances can include where 
services arent supplied by the company. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is some prospect of success.  
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time - usually around a 
month - for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank, if it considers the supplier has raised a weak or invalid defence. The 
process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties do not agree for the 
issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
As a starting point, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have initially 
requested the information it did. This wouldve helped it to assess if there was a valid claim 
and provide sufficient information to enable the merchant to identify the dispute for when the 
chargeback was raised.
However, following receipt of Mrs S supporting evidence, which included emails from T 
saying she wouldnt be able to travel and use her accommodation booking, as well as the 
hotel being unable to confirm its position regarding its bookings, Nationwide continued to ask 
for evidence that the merchant cancelled the booking. When Mrs S couldnt provide anything 
further, Nationwide took the approach that as the service wasnt formally cancelled by the 
hotel itself, no chargeback right existed. 
I can appreciate why Nationwide may have wanted to see something directly from the hotel 
and given there is only one chance to raise a chargeback, it wouldve wanted the best 
evidence from Mrs S before attempting a chargeback. However, in the circumstances, I 
consider what Mrs S had provided from T, strongly indicated that the services wouldnt be 
available for Mrs S to use. T acting as an agent for the hotel, told Mrs S that she wouldnt be 
able to travel and take up her accommodation booking, and also told her that the hotel itself 
couldnt provide any guarantees regarding her being able to use the accommodation, and so 
at that point, I dont think there was a need for Nationwide to get anything further from Mrs S 
and it shouldve raised the initial chargeback for her.
Having looked into the foreign travel advice on the government website, it was also made 
clear at the time, that at the time of Mrs S planned visit, there was a national lockdown 
encompassing hotels and holiday homes in the country she was due to visit until at least 30 
April 2020. And so, again it wouldve been clear that Mrs S would never have been able to 
use the services as they werent available, and had the chargeback been initially raised 
based on the available information, I consider that it would have likely succeeded.
Nationwide ultimately did raise the chargeback and credited Mrs S account on 17 February 
2021. Whilst I appreciate Nationwide said that it only did so after Mrs S provided a further 
email from the hotel directly to say the service wasnt available, as I explained above I think 
it already had enough information prior, which already showed this, and the chargeback 
would likely have succeeded if it had been raised earlier.
Taking all the above into consideration, I consider Nationwide caused Mrs S distress and 
inconvenience by requesting further information on several occasions, when it didnt need to, 
and ultimately it shouldve raised the chargeback sooner than it actually did.
When considering what compensation to award Mrs S for the overall poor service, delays, 
and handling of her chargeback claim, I have however had to take into account that these 
werent normal circumstances. It was an unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, 
when Mrs S first contacted Nationwide, dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these 
claims will have brought up issues which were relatively novel, and the banks were having to 
digest new information, rules and guidance.
And so, in thinking about what to award Mrs S for compensation, I consider £150 as fair and 
reasonable, taking into account all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Adverse information being recorded on Mrs S credit file
Nationwide has said the adverse information recorded for October and November 2020 
should remain, given that the balance on her credit card wasnt just made up of the disputed 
transaction, but also £2,015.88 of additional spending. 
However, Nationwides agreed to remove the late payment information for January 2021, as 
Mrs S was informed in December 2020 that the disputed amount left on her account would 
be frozen. As I consider this to be fair, what is now left for me to consider is the adverse 
information recorded for October and November 2020 by Nationwide. 
Nationwide has provided detailed evidence about the letters that it sent to Mrs S between 
September 2020 and January 2021, including account statements, missed payment notices 
and notices of sums in arrears for her account, which outlined what the consequences would 
be if Mrs S didnt make payment, which included reporting this to the appropriate credit 
reference agencies. 
While Mrs S says she didnt receive some of these letters, she has confirmed receipt of other 
letters, including the monthly late payment letters, which were sent to the same address. 
And so, Im satisfied Nationwide sent these letters, and Mrs S wouldve been made aware of 
what was required to be paid on her account and the consequences of not doing so. 
Whilst I have considered what Mrs S has said that regardless of the letters, she was 
repeatedly informed that her account was frozen and no payment was due by Nationwide, I 
have unfortunately not seen any persuasive evidence to support this claim.
I can see Nationwide initially sent a letter to Mrs S in August 2020 where it said the 
transaction, in question, had been placed into dispute, and that she was not expected to 
repay this, nor would she incur any interest charges, on the disputed amounts whilst it was 
investigating. However, I can see this was only referring to the disputed amount, and there 
was no mention of her additional spending of £2,142.97 being on hold, or her being told that 
she wouldnt have to make payment towards this amount. 
In terms of phone calls, whilst Mrs S has maintained that she spoke to Nationwide regularly 
and was always told she didnt need to make payment, apart from the call in December 
2020, which I already considered in relation to the January late fee marker, I cant see that 
she was ever told the whole amount was frozen or that she didnt need to make payments.
In any event, I can also see that in her email sent to Nationwide in November 2020 she 
accepted that shed been withholding payments. And so, whilst I have considered Mrs S 
arguments, taking everything into account, and given the fact that her credit card balance 
also included additional spending, not just the disputed transaction, Im satisfied Mrs S was 
aware that she should be making payments but chose not to.
As she failed to make the payments, I consider Nationwide acted correctly when it registered 
missed payment markers on her credit file for October and November 2020. In terms of what 
was recorded, for October, I can see this showed two missed payments and for November it 
showed three missed payments. Whilst Mrs S has said prior to October 2020, her account was registered as being in query with the credit reference agencies by Nationwide, and so 
the months recorded as missed were incorrect, unfortunately based on the available 
evidence I disagree. 
From what I can see Mrs S made her last payment prior to October 2020 on 25 August 2020 
for £100. This was however less than the amount that was due on her account for that 
month and given that she didnt then make any further payments, until December 2020, I 
think the months that were recorded as missed were correct. In terms of her account being 
in query, as I explained above, I have only seen Nationwide refer to the disputed amount as 
being in query and not the additional spending and so she was required to meet her monthly 
payments.
Taking everything into consideration, as Mrs S didnt make the required payments, and 
Nationwide acted correctly in sending letters to her when it didnt receive this, I consider it 
acted fairly and reasonably when it registered missed payment markers on her credit file for 
the months of October and November 2020.
Whilst I fully sympathise with Mrs S for the difficulties that shes described, I dont think 
Nationwide has acted unreasonably, and so, I wont be asking them to remove the adverse 
information recorded on her credit file for the months of October and November 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and if Nationwide Building Society hasnt 
already done so, it should do the following:
Pay Mrs S compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Instruct the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information recorded 
about Mrs S account in January 2021 from her credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman