DRN-3958960
The complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) irresponsibly 
increased the credit limit on her credit account so she couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Miss M successfully applied for a credit account with SDFC in October 2017. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £300. This was increased/decreased as follows:
Date New credit limit
August 2018 £700
February 2019 £1,000
August 2019 £1,500
December 2019 £1,700
July 2020 £2,700
January 2021 £3,700
February 2022 £4,200
October 2022 
(reduced to)£3,660
 
Miss M made a complaint about irresponsible lending in respect of the increases applied to 
her account after the initial credit limit.  She says the credit limit kept being increased and 
she was taking out other credit and struggling with her finances. She has sent to us one 
bank statement, covering the period 7 October to 7 November 2017.
SDFC said that it was satisfied that proportionate checks would have been completed at the 
time of Miss Ms application. She received periodic credit limit increases after her account 
was approved, and at the point of each credit limit increase an assessment of her account 
was undertaken. It was satisfied that the issue of her account and the credit limit increases 
up to the December 2019 increase were appropriate. However it upheld her complaint 
concerning the credit limit increases after July 2020 (to £2,700). So it agreed to refund 
interest payments and charges from the point Miss Ms credit account balance exceeded 
£1,700 (i.e. the previous credit limit). 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that having 
investigated her complaint she thought that the offer by SDFC was fair and reasonable.
Miss M didnt agree, she said that through the period of her having the account her
payments were for the majority of the time paid late - she had to be constantly reminded to 
pay and most months had to pay a £12 late fee because of not having the funds available 
when she was supposed to have it  but SDFC still continued to put the credit limit up.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. I asked for Miss M to provide 
copies of her bank statements for the months prior to each credit limit increase up until the 
increase to £1,700. She hasnt supplied them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Miss Ms complaint.
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did SDFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss M would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application or credit limit increase, 
was there a point where SDFC ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing 
Miss Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further credit?
For the initial application, SDFC carried out a credit check which shows Miss M had one 
retail credit account, no accounts in arrears or in default. For the low credit limit her income 
was sufficient to be able to repay the monthly amount. Ive seen Miss Ms bank statement for 
the month leading up to the application and it shows no loan or other credit payments and 
the current account remained in credit.
Until the February 2019 increase the SDFC account was generally well maintained with no 
arrears or late payment charges. The account balance didnt exceed a maximum of £409 up 
until the August 2019 credit limit increase to £1,500.
In August 2019, bearing in mind the large increase, from £1,000 to £1500, and bearing in 
mind that Miss M had been charged four late payment fees, a more detailed check could 
have been carried out, particularly concerning her income. I appreciate that being late with a 
monthly payment may be an indication of financial difficulty, but, assuming it renewed its 
credit check, if SDFC had carried out any more detailed checks Im unable to say what those checks would have shown it. As I havent seen any evidence concerning Miss Ts income 
and expenditure for that period, I cant uphold the complaint about this credit limit increase.. 
Similarly with the increase to £1,700, in December 2019, Ive not seen any evidence from 
Miss M concerning her income and expenditure for that period. She had two further late 
payment fees applied and the account had been in arrears of £48.93 for one month. 
However without that further evidence Im unable to say whether or not SDFC made a fair 
lending decision.
For the increase in the credit limit after 4 July 2020 (to £2,700), and subsequent increases, 
SDFC has already agreed that those increases shouldnt have been applied. It has agreed to 
refund all interest and charges on all balances over £1,700. I believe it has done that, but if 
not it should do so following this decision.
SDFC further agreed to take the necessary steps to remove any adverse information 
recorded on Miss Ms credit file since 4 July 2020.
I think that those were reasonable steps to take. This doesnt result in a credit balance on 
the account so no further payment of interest was due to be made.
Putting things right
If it hasnt done so already, SDFC should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £1,700. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss M along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. SDFC should also remove all adverse information recorded after 4 July 2020 
regarding this account from Miss Ms credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,700, SDFC should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss M for the remaining amount. Once Miss 
M has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 4 July 
2020 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
Arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss M for any remaining amount.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SDFC to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I have noted SDFCs offer, and if it hasnt done so already, Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited should provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman