DRN-3336919
The complaint
M complains about how OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance) has responded to 
its request to backdate the product switch rates on two of its two buy-to-let mortgage 
accounts. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Rather 
than repeat, in detail, what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus 
on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Ms mortgage products ended around April 2020. Ms director was sadly suffering with her 
mental wellbeing around that time which impacted her ability to manage her finances 
accordingly. As a result, no action was taken when the products ended and the accounts 
reverted the standard variable rate (SVR) until December 2020, when M switched to fixed 
deals. 
Around that time, Ms representative contacted Kent Reliance to explain whether, in the 
circumstances, it would backdate the new rates. After some ongoing communication, Kent 
Reliance said that as a gesture of good will, it would backdate the new rates from 1 July 
2020. M doesnt think this is fair and, in the circumstances, Kent Reliance should apply the 
new rates from 1 April 2020.
Our investigator considered this complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. He said 
that Kent Reliance can only be expected to put things right, if it was responsible for things 
going wrong in the first place. Whilst our investigator thought Kent Reliances offer was a fair 
one, he did ask whether it would consider extending it, which it wasnt willing to do. As such, 
he could not recommend Kent Reliance to do anything more.
Ms representative didnt accept our investigators view. The complaint was passed to me for 
a decision. I have discussed this case in detail with Ms representative and have explained 
our services remit in situations like this. I will explain the reasons for my decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In situations where a business has made a mistake or treated its customer unfairly and 
theyve lost out as a result, our service has the power to put things right. Usually, well tell 
the business to put the customer back in the position theyd be in if they hadnt got things 
wrong. 
M has buy-to-let mortgages. These are unregulated mortgage contracts and as such arent 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. While mortgage regulation isnt directly 
relevant, I have thought about the general principles when considering Kent Reliances 
conduct and the merits of this complaint.
Although not a requirement for buy-to-let mortgages, Kent Reliance wrote to M on a couple 
of occasions to remind it that the mortgage products were ending on both accounts. Kent 
Reliance also wrote to M on expiry to confirm the new interest rates and payment amounts 
and sent further reminders about the accounts being on the SVR and how M could secure 
new rates. So, Im satisfied Kent Reliance applied good industry practice by communicating 
with M about its accounts. 
Ive carefully considered everything I know about Ms directors circumstances. I appreciate 
this must be a very difficult time for her and I emphasise with the position she found herself 
in. But I cant say that any loss suffered by M was as a result of Kent Reliances actions. As 
explained above, Kent Reliance did more than what was expected when communicating with 
M about the accounts. So, I cant say it did anything wrong. 
In normal circumstances, its unlikely Kent Reliance would consider any sort of backdated 
adjustment to the rate of interest charged. But its evident a different set of circumstances 
apply here. Circumstances, that Im persuaded Kent Reliance has taken into consideration 
when agreeing to backdate the rates. 
Ms representative doesnt think the resolution is fair and thinks the new rates should be 
applied from April 2020. He says this would be at no loss to Kent Reliance, as if the director 
was of fit mental state, she would have sourced the lower rates from April 2020 anyway. 
Whilst I do understand Ms representatives point of view, I must remind him of our remit 
here. I have to decide whats fair and reasonable to both sides. In this case an important 
factor is that there has been no mistake made by Kent Reliance. Kent Reliance didnt know 
there was a problem. When it did find out what happened, it agreed to backdate the new 
rates  just not as far back as M wanted. But in the circumstances, this seems like a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve the complaint. And bearing in mind that Kent Reliance has not 
made a mistake I dont think it would be fair to require it do any more here.
Whilst Ms directors health is not in dispute, I can see she was able to contact Kent Reliance 
in August 2020 to discuss her accounts and available rates. So arguably a new rate could 
have been sought at that time. I also think more could have been done to mitigate Ms losses 
in the circumstances. Representatives could have been appointed sooner to manage Ms 
financial affairs, as is the case now. 
So, when considering everything, I think an offer to backdate the rates by six months out of 
nine is fair and reasonable. I think Kent Reliances offer is fair and I cant reasonably ask it to 
do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman