The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) increased his overdraft 
limit (limit) when it should have been clear that it was unaffordable. He wants Halifax to 
convert the overdraft into a low interest rate loan so that he can manage it better.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr C and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
When Mr C opened his account, he didnt have an overdraft. Over a period, from October 
2017, he requested and was granted small increases, so that by January 2018 his limit had 
reached £750. He then cleared it. 
In April 2018 he requested a limit of £100 which was granted, and then increased twice more 
within the next 4 days to £200. Further, small increases were granted in May, August and 
September taking the limit to £320. In November he received an increase to £400 then to 
£500, both on the same day. And on the 30 December 2018 the limit was finally increased to 
£550.
Mr C says that during this time he was struggling financially as he had taken out multiple 
payday loans, had some of his direct debits declined and feels that in giving him these 
increases Halifax had been irresponsible. 
Halifax didnt think they had done anything wrong and said the increases had been applied 
after Mr Cs applications had been properly assessed and credit scored. But as a gesture of 
goodwill they applied £25 to his account and suppressed fees for 30 days. They didnt think 
that Mr C had been in financial difficulty as he was able to meet his financial commitments 
and reasonable living expenses.
Mr C was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, concluded that Halifax ought to have realised that from August 2018 Mr C was in 
trouble and the credit it was extending to him was not affordable. He suggested that Halifax 
should restructure Mr Cs account so that any interest or charges paid after the 28 August, 
when his overdraft limit was increased beyond £250, were repaid, and further, that Halifax 
should allow Mr C to repay the overdraft at an affordable rate.
Halifax didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
DRN-1644742What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably. Ive looked at 
the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must make an independent 
decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. 
Mr C was working on a zero hours contract at a rate of £7.70 per hour. During 2018/19 he 
made 40 applications for an overdraft. Halifax have produced evidence that on some of 
those applications he declared an income of £1,000 and on the last 2 that it was £2,000. 
Between May 2018 and August 2018, Mr C had 4 payday loans amounting to £400 and 4 
direct debits declined totalling £138.26. Between August 2018 and December 2018, he had 
13 payday loans amounting to £1,250 and 10 direct debits declined totalling £351.35.
Whilst our investigator thought that this should have been taken into account by Halifax 
when it was assessing his applications, Halifax have argued that a closer inspection of how 
Mr C was operating his account reveals that his spending was on non-essential items, the 
payday loans were repaid without issue and the direct debits were returned because it was 
likely Mr C was purposely not making payments. That they felt didnt demonstrate Mr C was 
in financial difficulty.
Ultimately it is a question of fine judgement, and I accept that banks arent required to do 
extensive affordability and outgoings checks in these circumstances. But I do think that they 
must check how their customer is managing their account at the time of the application, 
because only then will they be able to see whether it would be appropriate to grant the 
credit.
Halifax have explained that each application is automatically assessed and based on a 
customers declared income, credit reports and credit scoring systems ultimately leading to a 
score which will result in either the application being granted or declined, depending on the 
product being applied for. And that is what they did here.
The Lending Code requires a business to assess whether a borrower will be able to repay 
their borrowing in a sustainable manner, by considering information from Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs), including existing financial commitments where provided, as well as the 
following, as appropriate:
The type and amount of credit being sought.
How the customer has handled their finances in the past;
Any internal credit scoring techniques;
The customers declared income;
Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and
Any security provided
 
There is however no set list of checks which Halifax had to do. Halifax arent required, either 
by law or banking practice to obtain proof of a customers income when agreeing to any 
unsecured borrowing. They arent required to cross-check any declared income with 
previous applications, and they are entitled to rely on their customers to provide them with 
accurate information.When our investigator looked into Mr Cs account, he found that during 2018 the account 
was rarely in credit and that some of the payday loans were taken out because he had 
exceeded his overdraft limit. He also noted that Mr C obtained 2 increases in one day. This 
he thought indicated that Mr C wasnt in control of his finances. Halifax disputed that view 
repeating that it was the way which Mr C was managing his account, which was the reason 
he was taking out payday loans, not that he was in financial difficulty. They also thought that 
the reason he might have increased his overdraft twice in one day was perhaps to repay 
payday loans because the overdraft was more beneficial.
I have taken a longitudinal view of the way Mr C has operated his account because I think 
that allows a more balanced view to be taken of Mr Cs position. The most obvious point is 
that during 2018 his account was rarely in credit. When, one then factors in Mr C was 
resorting to Payday lenders, that should have caused alarm bells to ring. I understand 
Halifaxs argument regarding account management, but as they have rightly pointed out, Mr 
C resorted to Payday lenders to get his overdraft back within limits. In addition, there is also 
the issue of the returned direct debits, and whilst I have understood the points Halifax have 
made, I cant accept that view as it is simply conjecture on their part. The fact remains the 
direct debits were declined.
Looking at all the evidence, and taking both views into account, I do think that from August 
2018 Halifax ought not to have increased Mr Cs limit because it was obvious he was in 
difficulties generally, and the further credit was going to be unaffordable.
So, I find myself in agreement with our investigator in this case. I cannot fault the logic nor 
the application of the facts, and I do think that his suggested view is both fair and reasonable 
and so I adopt it.
Putting things right
Halifax shall restructure and remove any interest and charges which have been applied to 
Mr Cs account after the 28 August 2018, and which relate to his borrowing over and above 
the £250 overdraft limit. Further, Halifax should engage with Mr C to come to an agreement 
to repay the overdraft at an affordable rate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman