DRN-3168584
The complaint
Mrs F complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled her chargeback request.    
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs F bought a car insurance policy for her son, from an insurer Ill refer to as 
I. She paid around £750 for the policy from her current account with HSBC. Around a 
month later I unexpectedly took a further payment of £496.73 from Mrs Fs account. As she 
had already paid for the policy, she raised a chargeback with HSBC. This was successful 
and HSBC reversed the payment and debited her account with the amount.
It later transpired that the amount had been taken by I due to a misunderstanding about 
proof of her sons no claims bonus. However once this had been resolved, I refunded the 
amount back to Mrs F, less a £35 admin fee. 
When this refund was received HSBC removed £461.73 from Mrs Fs account, as the 
chargeback was no longer necessary. It has since been found that while I challenged the 
chargeback, this money wasnt returned to it, but instead kept in HSBCs holding account.
As I had refunded the money to Mrs F, and hadnt received the refund from HSBC, this 
meant it was out of pocket by £461.73. And because of this, it eventually cancelled Mrs Fs 
sons car insurance policy. This led to a marker being applied to his record making it difficult 
for him to get insurance. 
Following this Mrs F made a complaint to I on behalf of her son and then to HSBC. HSBC 
upheld her complaint and credited her account with the £461.73 it had reversed and an 
additional £100 compensation for the distress its mistake had caused. Mrs F asked our 
service to investigate further. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt think HSBC had done enough to make 
up for the distress and inconvenience its mistake had caused. He said that because HSBC 
had taken the £461.73 out of Mrs Fs account, but hadnt returned it to I this led to a great 
deal of confusion on both sides. And led to I cancelling Mrs Fs sons car insurance policy. 
He said this had caused Mrs F considerable distress and inconvenience as her son was 
unable to drive for a period and had to rely on her. He thought HSBC should pay Mrs F £750 
compensation to make up for this unnecessary distress. 
HSBC didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. It said it didnt agree the 
insurance policy was cancelled due to its error, so thought the compensation it had already 
offered was sufficient. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to decide whether the business being complained 
about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, I need to decide what the impact of 
this was and how it can put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it 
hadnt. 
Here, HSBC agree it got something wrong. It removed £461.73 from Mrs Fs account to 
reverse the chargeback but didnt refund this to I. So I need to consider the impact this error 
has had in order to decide whether HSBC has done enough to put things right. 
The £461.73 was refunded to Mrs F by I because it resolved a problem with receiving proof 
of her sons no claims bonus. So she was entitled to this refund. 
However because the chargeback was also originally successful, with the money being 
refunded to Mrs Fs account, and not subsequently returned to I, this meant I was under the 
impression that the policy hadnt been paid for in full. And that Mrs F had received two 
refunds of the £461.73. This directly led to the cancellation of Mrs Fs sons insurance. 
The reason I say this is because If HSBC had acted as it should have it would have either 
returned the money to I or left it in Mrs Fs account. In these circumstances I think its most 
likely the policy wouldnt have been cancelled. As if it were given back to I, it wouldnt have 
required additional funds for the policy and if it had been left in Mrs Fs account she would 
have been able to clearly see that she had been refunded twice and there would be no 
confusion around the money owed to I. So I think its likely she would have paid I the money 
owed and would have had the funds to do so. 
However as the money was refunded by I and the refund returned by HSBC, Mrs F was left 
under the impression that the two transactions had cancelled each other out. Leaving her 
back in the position she was in before I took the extra amount from her account. So I can 
see why she concluded she had nothing left to pay. And I think this lad to the confusion 
about what was owed and subsequently the cancellation of the policy.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that HSBCs error in how it handled the 
chargeback has led to the cancellation of her sons policy and caused Mrs F some significant 
distress and inconvenience. 
The matter with her sons car insurer has taken nearly a year to resolve. This is largely 
because it has been unclear where the money taken out of her account by HSBC has ended 
up. And it has only been in making a complaint to I and HSBC that she has got to the bottom 
of this. This has meant that Mrs F has been in constant contact with I throughout that time 
which has been very inconvenient. Further she has had the distress of knowing her son had 
a cancelled car insurance policy, which made it difficult for him to get another policy. This 
resulted in her son relying on her for transport as they live in a rural location. Mrs F has also 
described the impact the situation has had on her son and it has been very distressing for 
Mrs F to see her sons mental health decline due to the stressful situation. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that £750 compensation is a fairer reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience that HSBC has caused Mrs F by its error.
Ive considered what HSBC has said about other errors that have been made as part of the 
process by I. And that the chargeback was raised as fraud originally by Mrs F which was 
incorrect. While I agree I could have handled matters better, I dont think these matters are 
relevant to my decision here. As I still think the main reason the policy was cancelled was 
due to HSBC removing funds from Mrs Fs account and not returning them to I. So I think 
HSBC are therefore responsible for the full impact of the cancellation of the policy.    
My final decisionI require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs F a total of £750 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman