DRN-2573928
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) treated 
him, after he struggled to maintain the minimum payments on his credit card account during 
the pandemic. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr B was made redundant by his employer. Soon after, Mr B failed to 
make the minimum payment due on his credit card account with M&S in January 2020. 
Mr B contacted M&S in February 2020 as his next payment on the card was due. He 
explained his circumstances and that he was still looking for new employment. M&S put a 
60-day payment hold on the account to try and give Mr B some breathing space. 
In May 2020, after this period came to an end, M&S contacted Mr B. He made them aware 
that he was still struggling to find new employment and that the pandemic hadnt helped this. 
No Covid-19 relief payment holiday was put in place but both Mr B and M&S agreed to a 
three-month payment plan for £45 a month. 
Mr B says he only later realised that this was still negatively impacting on his credit file and 
he complained to M&S. He says that they didnt treat him sympathetically enough in light of 
the ongoing pandemic. 
M&S replied to say that they had acted fairly and that Mr B had not qualified for temporary 
covid-19 relief when a payment plan was arranged. They also said they had made Mr B 
aware how it would be reflected on his credit file at the time. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into matters and thought that M&S had given appropriate forbearance to the financial 
difficulties Mr B was facing and had acted fairly. However, Mr B maintained that he didnt 
agree this was the case. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr B that I think the outcome the investigator has reached is 
fair here. Ill explain why.
When Mr B missed the accounts minimum payment in January 2020, he contacted M&S 
and made them aware that he had recently been made redundant. He also told them he had 
other creditors and wasnt receiving any financial support from family members. However, he 
was actively looking for new employment and had an interview coming up. 
M&S applied a 60-day payment hold on the account and made Mr B aware that the account 
wasnt accruing interest as it was still within the 0% interest promotional period. M&S 
refunded a £12 late payment charge and wouldnt apply any more during the 60-day hold 
that had been applied to the account. They explained during the call that this was not a 
payment holiday and that it could impact Mr Bs credit file. Mr B agreed to this action and I 
am satisfied that considering the circumstances at the time, M&S acted appropriately and 
sympathetically. 
When this period came to an end and after Mr B had submitted a Covid-19 relief form, M&S 
contacted Mr B. He made them aware that his circumstances had not changed greatly. He 
was receiving universal credit and despite the pandemic affecting his ability to gain regular 
work, he was working the odd day self-employed. Whilst the M&S associate does not explain 
in great detail during the call why they didnt feel a Covid-19 relief payment holiday was 
appropriate in the circumstances, a three-month payment plan for £45 a month was agreed 
and confirmed. 
Mr B has said that he is unhappy that a payment plan was entered into rather than a 
payment holiday, which he feels he was entitled to under the FCAs Covid-19 temporary 
relief guidance. However, I feel M&S acted fairly here. The guidance is clear that this relief 
does not apply to anyone that was already in financial difficulty prior to coronavirus. Mr B 
had already been made redundant and was without permanent work. He had also missed 
monthly minimum payments and asked for a payment hold on the account. 
Whilst I believe M&S acted fairly in not placing a temporary payment holiday on the account, 
they still needed to treat Mr B with forbearance and due consideration. I believe they did this 
by agreeing to a £45 a month three-month payment plan which Mr B confirmed he could 
afford, due to his receipt of universal credit and some ad-hoc part-time work.  
When Mr B contacted M&S to make at least the initial payment under the payment, he was 
unhappy that his credit file had been impacted by the action taken so far and said that a 
Covid payment holiday should have been agreed, as this would have meant no adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file. There will already have been adverse 
information from the missed January 2020 payment and M&S made clear in February that 
Mr Bs credit file could still be impacted by the hold. 
I am aware the consumer disputes that the payment plan has been recorded correctly on his 
credit file. However, despite asking, information hasn't been forthcoming to allow me to 
determine this point. 
In summary, I am satisfied that M&S acted fairly and appropriately with the action they took. I 
accept my decision will come to disappoint to Mr B. But, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont require M&S to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve Mr Bs dispute with M&S  can do for him.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman