DRN-3845555
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled his fraud claim and the 
closure of his account.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr W fell victim to a scam. He made two payments to the scammer, the 
first being £1,100 and the second being £399.43.
Mr W realised hed been the victim of a scam the same day it happened and reported it to 
Lloyds. Lloyds initially credited Mr Ws account with £199.72, while they looked into his fraud 
claim. Lloyds was able to recover £0.43 from the beneficiary account which was refunded to 
Mr Ws account later in December. 
In August 2021, Lloyds completed their fraud investigation, and refunded Mr W the 
remaining balance of £1,299.28. They paid interest at 8% simple on the refund which, along 
with the refund of £1,299.28 was applied to the outstanding debt on Mr Ws account.
The scam payments had taken Mr Ws account up to its overdraft limit of £3,000. And, 
following some direct debits and overdraft interest charges being applied to Mr Ws account, 
it exceeded its overdraft limit within a few days of the scam.
As Mr Ws account was above its agreed limit, Lloyds sent Mr W letters in January 2021 
asking him to make a payment to bring his account within its agreed limit. In February 2021, 
as no payment had been received, Lloyds sent a formal demand letter asking Mr W to repay 
his overdrawn balance in full. The letter asked Mr W to get in touch if he couldnt afford to 
repay the debt, so Lloyds could set up a repayment plan. The letter warned Mr W that if he 
didnt get in touch before 9 March 2021, they would close his account, load a default marker 
and sell his debt on.
Mr W says he didnt receive any of these letters. Mr W also says that due to a block placed 
on his account following the scam, his salary couldnt be credited to his account and was 
returned to his employer.
On 1 April 2021, Lloyds sent Mr W a letter asking him to get in touch in order to prevent his 
account from being closed. It provided a further deadline of 30 days and requested a 
minimum payment of just over £130. Mr W says he received this letter and responded to 
Lloyds by letter on 5 April 2021. Lloyds say they didnt receive a response from Mr W.
In June 2021, Lloyds sold Mr Ws debt on to a debt collection company and sent him a letter 
explaining this.
In July 2021, Mr W raised a complaint with Lloyds. Mr W said he was unhappy with the 
length of time Lloyds took to complete their fraud investigation as well as the level of service 
hed received from them including their decision to close his account.
Lloyds looked into Mr Ws complaint and provided their written response in August 2021. 
Lloyds explained theyd upheld his fraud claim and the final refund had been applied to the 
outstanding balance owed on Mr Ws account. They also credited Mr W with a further £90.67 
being the overdraft interest he was charged on the scam payments. Lloyds paid an 
additional £34.18 being interest for the time Mr W was without the use of the scam payment 
funds.
Lloyds apologised for not keeping Mr W updated on the progress of his claim, saying they 
shouldve contacted him more frequently to let him know what was happening. Lloyds say 
that a staff member had called them when Mr W attended a branch in December 2020, and 
that the branch staff were supposed to talk to Mr W about support that was available while 
they waited to see if any funds could be recovered from the beneficiary banks. Lloyds 
apologised that this information wasnt passed onto Mr W and for any upset it caused. As a 
result, Lloyds paid Mr W £200 in compensation. The £200 and the £34.18 were paid into    
Mr Ws savings account with Lloyds. 
Lloyds addressed the closure of Mr Ws account, saying that Mr W was obliged to maintain 
his account within its agreed limit while the fraud investigation was happening. And 
highlighted that theyd sent him letters which gave notice of the action they were taking and 
asking him to get in touch to discuss the outstanding debt. But as the debt had now been 
sold on, Mr W would need to work with the debt collection agency to arrange a repayment 
plan.
Mr W wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it, saying the £200 Lloyds had 
already paid was fair. The investigator explained:
As Lloyds had sent letters outlining the next steps if the account wasnt brought 
within its limit, they hadnt acted unfairly in closing the account or selling on the debt. 
While Mr W said Lloyds had promised a full refund, which was why he didnt make a 
payment to his account, the investigator felt it was unlikely Lloyds wouldve promised 
a full refund while the fraud claim was being investigated.
Mr W says he has vulnerabilities that Lloyds have ignored, however, he was 
operating both his Lloyds account and an account with another bank and doesnt 
appear to have asked for assistance previously.
Mr W was unhappy with the investigators opinion, saying:
Lloyds ignored his fraud claim for nearly 9 months.
Although he attended Lloyds branches on several occasions, he wasnt given any 
help or support despite his obvious distress.
Lloyds didnt recognize his vulnerabilities including his difficulties in communicating 
with them, which shouldve been obvious from the letters he sent. Mr W feels Lloyds 
shouldve offered him a translation service or other support.
Lloyds havent put him back in the position he wouldve been in if the fraud didnt 
happen, which has caused him distress and made his situation worse.
Lloyds blocked his account so his salary couldnt be paid in but continued to apply 
charges to his account.Lloyds closed his account, sold his debt to a third-party company and applied 
negative markers to his credit report. 
As Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
Having initially reviewed the case, I thought that Lloyds had acted hastily in selling Mr Ws 
debt on and asked them if they could buy back the debt. Lloyds say they do not have 
systems in place to do so unless the debt is being repaid in full  which isnt the case here. I 
also suggested to Lloyds that the compensation they had paid of £200 wasnt enough in the 
circumstances and that I was likely to increase the award to £350. Lloyds agreed to this 
increased payment, so I wanted to give Mr W a chance to comment on my recommendation.
My provisional decision
On 26 October 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to reach a 
slightly different outcome than the investigator and wanted to give both parties a chance to 
respond before I issue a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen Mr W has been fully refunded for the scam payments, in line with what 
we would recommend if we upheld his complaint. Hes been refunded in full for the 
payments he made, had debit interest reimbursed to put him back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the scam payments werent made from his account, and been paid 
interest for the loss of use of the funds. 
Has Mr W been put back in the position he wouldve been in if the scam hadnt happened?
Having reviewed Mr Ws statements prior to the scam happening, he was already using his 
overdraft and had an overdrawn balance of approximately £1,500. He then made payments 
as part of the scam that totalled £1,499.43 which took him up to his limit of £3,000.
Since the scam happened, Lloyds have fully refunded both scam payments, which were 
applied to Mr Ws outstanding balance.
Lloyds stopped overdraft interest charges on Mr Ws account at the end of January 2021 and 
calculated and rebated the overdraft interest Mr W was charged on the scam payments. 
Theyve also calculated and paid credit interest to Mr W for the time he didnt have use of the 
money that he paid to the scammers.
As far as I can see, Mr W is back in the financial position that he wouldve been if the scam 
hadnt happened. Lloyds have paid the refunds to the debt collection company which has 
reduced the outstanding balance Mr W owes, which is appropriate in the circumstances. And 
based on Mr Ws statements, and the balance of his account prior to the scam payments, it 
appears Mr W is no worse off financially. So, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to pay anything more 
with regards to the scam payments or the impact they had on Mr Ws account balance.
Did Lloyds acted fairly in closing Mr Ws account and selling the debt on
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds sold his debt onto a debt collection company, saying that he 
didnt receive a number of the letters Lloyds sent and explaining he didnt make a payment 
to reduce his outstanding balance because Lloyds had told him he would be refunded in full.From what Ive seen Lloyds placed a temporary credit into Mr Ws account the day after he 
reported the fraud to them. I havent seen anything that suggests Mr W was told that he 
would be refunded in full by Lloyds for the scam payments, prior to the completion of their 
fraud investigation. I think its unlikely that Lloyds have told Mr W that, as they wouldnt know 
what the outcome of the fraud investigation would be. 
But regardless of what Mr W was told, I think Mr W was put on notice when he received the 
letter from Lloyds in April 2021, which told him what would happen if he didnt make the 
minimum payment to bring his account within the limit. 
Mr W has acknowledged that he received this letter and that he responded to it the following 
day. However, there is no record of Mr W making the payment as required by Lloyds, or 
contacting Lloyds to make a payment arrangement if he was in financial difficulty and 
couldnt afford the payment. The letter Mr W sent to Lloyds dated 5 April, simply refers to the 
fraud on his account and suggests that he attend a Lloyds branch to provide his account of 
what happened in relation to the scam. Mr W has said that he no longer trusted the phone 
and so didnt want to call Lloyds in response to their letter, but he couldve gone into a local 
branch to discuss the letter Lloyds had sent  but I cant see that he did.
Mr W has an obligation to operate his account within its agreed limit, and he couldve 
prevented his account from being closed by making the minimum payment of just over £130 
or discussing the matter with Lloyds. Lloyds werent asking for the full balance to be repaid 
at that stage which was reasonable. The terms and conditions of Mr Ws account say that 
Lloyds can close his account in certain circumstances, and in this case Im satisfied that 
Lloyds acted fairly in closing his account. Lloyds sent several letters to Mr W to make him 
aware of their intent to close the account and gave deadlines along with ways Mr W could 
prevent this from happening. Mr W has failed to engage with Lloyds which couldve 
prevented the closure of the account. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt acted unreasonably in closing Mr Ws 
account.
But, I think that Lloyds acted too hastily in selling the debt onto a debt collection company. 
I say this because the account only went over its limit due to the payments Mr W made as 
part of the scam. I think it wouldve been fairer for Lloyds to wait until the conclusion of their 
fraud investigation before selling the debt on. Especially considering the fact that they upheld 
Mr Ws fraud claim and refunded the two payments into his account, which wouldve reduced 
the account within his agreed limit.
Lloyds have explained that they are unable to buy the debt back, unless the debt is being 
repaid in full. 
I wouldve recommended that Lloyds buy back the debt, however, if they are unable to do so 
based on their systems and processes, I cant fairly require them to. Also, Im conscious that 
the debt they sold was owed by Mr W, and that theyve appropriately updated the 
outstanding balance with the refunds theyve made. 
If Lloyds hadnt sold the debt on, Mr W wouldve still been liable to repay the balance owing. 
So I cant see that Mr W is in a worse position financially than if Lloyds had retained the 
debt, rather than selling it. Although I think Lloyds selling the debt on has probably increased 
the distress and upset Mr W experienced in the circumstances. Therefore, Lloyds should pay 
Mr W £200 in compensation.
I did consider the effect on Mr Ws credit report in relation to the debt being sold on. But, most of the markers on Mr Ws credit report will relate to his account being above his limit, 
and him not making payments to reduce the account balance  which are an accurate 
reflection of what happened. As Ive previously explained Mr W couldve made the minimum 
payment of around £130 and the account wouldnt have been closed or the debt sold on. So, 
I wont be asking Lloyds to make any adjustments to the information they submitted to the 
credit reporting agencies.
The level of customer service Mr W received from Lloyds
Mr W raised concerns about the length of time Lloyds took to investigate his fraud claim.
 Lloyds have accepted that they didnt keep Mr W updated on the progress of his fraud claim 
and say that they were waiting for updates from the beneficiary banks. However, Im not 
convinced that this would take eight months to complete. I havent seen anything that 
explains why Lloyds took eight months to complete their investigation and feel they 
shouldve taken less time and provided a better level of service to Mr W.
Mr W has also raised a complaint about the lack of support he was given, referring to his 
request for a translator and his vulnerability due to his communication needs.
However, I havent seen anything that suggests Mr W had previously told Lloyds that he had 
communication needs, prior to his letter from April 2021. There are no notes that he made 
Lloyds aware of any reasonable adjustments he may need. It appears Mr W had, up to that 
point, operated his account without Lloyds providing any additional support. 
But, at the point Mr W wrote to Lloyds (in April 2021) I wouldve expected Lloyds to contact 
Mr W to discuss his potential vulnerability and to understand what reasonable adjustments 
he may have needed in order to manage his account or the fraud claim process and I cant 
see this happened. 
Mr W is also unhappy that Lloyds didnt offer him more support during the fraud 
investigation, which he says was a very stressful time for him. Lloyds have acknowledged 
that the branch staff shouldve talked to Mr W about what support mayve been available and 
apologised that this didnt happen. 
Mr W has also complained about Lloyds blocking his account, which meant his salary 
couldnt be credited. However, a representative for Mr W has told us that Mr W wanted the 
block on his account, saying he didnt trust the bank. And Mr W had another account that he 
was using, and that he was able to have his salary paid to. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to place the block and while this mayve been inconvenient for Mr W, I cant say 
Lloyds acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
Overall, I think there were a number of things that Lloyds couldve handled better. Because 
of this, I think Lloyds should pay an additional £150 in compensation, increasing the overall 
award for compensation to £350.
I appreciate that Mr W may want a higher level of compensation, but the awards we make 
are modest. Also, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the actions of the fraudster or the 
impact the fraud had on Mr W. I can only look at Lloyds actions, and where they couldve 
acted more fairly or reasonably  make an award based on the impact of them. Having very 
carefully considered what happened, including everything Mr W has told me, I think that an 
overall award of £350 is fair. This is not in addition to the £200 Lloyds has already offered. My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint and ask Lloyds Bank 
PLC to pay Mr W £350 in compensation. I said they could deduct the £200 compensation 
they initially offered, if it has already been paid to Mr W.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds responded accepting the provisional decision and saying it had nothing further to add.
Mr W responded and provided a lengthy submission. The main points he raised which relate 
to this case are:
Lloyds have failed by not communicating clearly with him. Some of the letters werent 
received and he didnt know that if he paid £130, his account wouldnt be sold to the 
debt collection company.
Lloyds failed to help him when he was vulnerable.
He believes the balance owing has increased since it was sold to the debt collection 
company.
If the debt wasnt sold on, his credit report wouldnt show the arrears. Mr W pointed 
to his Lloyds overdraft not showing on a copy of his credit report which he gave to 
our service.
The point Mr W raised about his Lloyds overdraft not showing on his credit report, was new 
and hadnt been addressed. So, I contacted Lloyds, who confirmed they report to three credit 
references agencies and the free credit report Mr W had obtained wasnt provided by one of 
those agencies. This means that Mr Ws overdraft has been reported and will show on his 
credit report when supplied by one of those agencies. The details of which agencies it was 
reported to were shared with Mr W.
I also raised Mr Ws point regarding the negative markers Lloyds had registered against him 
and the impact they were having on his credit report. Having discussed this with Lloyds, they 
agreed to remove all of the negative markers associated with Mr Ws account defaulting and 
the debt being sold on.
As Mr W raised concerns about the balance the debt collection company say is outstanding, 
I contacted the debt collection company. They confirmed that the amount sold to them was 
the actual balance owing on Mr Ws account at the time it was closed. Also, that no interest 
or charges had been added and that the balance hasnt increased. This information was 
provided to Mr W along with confirmation that he was being asked to pay the correct 
amount.
Mr W provided a further response based on our update to him. This included the same 
issues that he raised in response to the provisional decision  with no new points raised.
As both parties have now provided their responses to the provisional decision, Ive 
reconsidered the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to address each and every point that Mr W has made. Instead, Ive focused on 
the relevant points that get to the heart of his complaint and the outcome Ive reached. But Id like to reassure Mr W that I have read his responses in full and considered everything 
hes said.
A number of the points Mr W raised didnt relate to his complaint against Lloyds. He provided 
letters that hed sent to another company and referred to entries from them showing on his 
credit report. In this complaint, I can only look at and address Mr Ws complaint about Lloyds 
and the actions taken by Lloyds. 
Mr W is concerned about the negative impact on his credit report of Lloyds selling on his 
debt to a debt collection company. This company has applied default markers because Mr W 
hasnt made any payments since theyve had his debt. Having reviewed a copy of his credit 
report, Mr W couldnt see any defaults or negative markers posted by Lloyds, so felt his 
credit report was negatively impacted purely because Lloyds sold on his debt. Mr W says 
that if the debt collection companys markers were removed, his credit report/score would 
improve.
Lloyds have agreed to remove all the negative markers related to Mr Ws account defaulting 
and the debt being sold on. Based on Lloyds removing those markers, Im satisfied they will 
put Mr W back in the position he wouldve been in (in relation to his credit file) if his account 
hadnt been defaulted. However, I cant ask Lloyds to affect markers loaded by the third-
party debt collection company as they are a separate legal entity. So, Lloyds will have taken 
the necessary steps to rectify Mr Ws credit report based on the information they supplied to 
the credit reference agencies.
If Mr W is unhappy with markers added by the third-party debt collection company, he will 
need to raise that with them directly. Although, its worth noting, Im satisfied that the balance 
the debt collection company is asking Mr W to pay is correct. The debt collection company 
have reduced the balance by the £1,299.28 Lloyds refunded. If Mr W wants to improve his 
credit score, he could pay off the full balance so the debt shows as satisfied on his credit 
report.
A number of the points that Mr W raised were addressed in the provisional decision. This 
included Lloyds not making him aware that a payment was needed to prevent his account 
being closed or the debt sold on. However, Mr W confirmed he received the letter sent by 
Lloyds in April 2021, which advised him that a minimum payment of £130 would prevent 
Lloyds taking further action in relation to his account  this letter was prior to the account 
being closed or the debt being sold on. In response to this letter, Mr W wrote to Lloyds. But 
Mr Ws letter to Lloyds focused on him wanting to attend a Lloyds branch to give a detailed 
account of the scam he fell victim to. It didnt address the balance of his account or Lloyds 
request for him to make a payment. So, I cant agree that Lloyds didnt make him aware of 
the steps he could take to prevent further action being taken.
I realise that Mr W is very unhappy with the level of service he has received from Lloyds. 
And Lloyds have accepted that when Mr W went into the branch, the branch staff shouldve 
talked to Mr W about what support was available to him. I also think Lloyds acted hastily in 
selling on Mr Ws debt and that they shouldve reached an outcome on his fraud claim much 
sooner than they did.  
Having considered everything that Mr W has said in response to the provisional decision and 
in more recent emails, I see no reason to reach a different outcome than I did in my 
provisional decision. Therefore, Lloyds should pay Mr W £350 in compensation for the poor 
level of service they provided. But, they can deduct the £200 theyve already offered Mr W if 
they have already paid it to him. They should also remove all negative markers they reported 
to the credit reference agencies in relation to his account defaulting and the debt being sold 
on.Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W £350 compensation, but they can 
deduct the £200 they initially offered if theyve already paid it to Mr W. They should also 
remove all negative credit markers theyve registered against him in relation to his account 
defaulting or the debt being sold on.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and require them to 
compensate Mr W, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman