DRN-3327965
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Phoenix Life Limited wont extend her policy in line with the increase in 
retirement age.
Phoenix Life are responsible for this complaint following a transfer of business with the 
previous provider. 
What happened
In 1987 Mrs C took out a policy that would provide a benefit if she was unable to work due to 
illness. At the time the policy was sold, Mrs C expected her retirement age to be 60, so the 
policy was set up to expire on February 2022, when she reached 60 years old.
Mrs C said she had no choice but to select this date, because the termination date of the 
policy had to coincide with her retirement age, which at the time 60 years old. However, over 
the subsequent years, state retirement age for females has increased to 67 years old. 
Mrs C was unable to work due to illness, so she was claiming a benefit on the policy. Due to 
being unable to work, she is reliant on her income benefit until her retirement payments 
starts. 
In October 2021 Mrs C received a letter from Phoenix about the settlement options for her 
policy as she had reached the age of 60. Mrs C complained that her policy was being 
terminated and her claim stopped. Phoenix explained they were unable to extend the policy 
past the retirement date she had selected at inception. 
Mrs C said the policy says her cover continues until retirement. She thinks it is unfair that 
her policy still expires at 60 when the state retirement age has now increased. Phoenix 
maintained there arent any extension options in the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy.
Mrs C referred the matter to this service. Our investigator said he didnt think Phoenix had 
been unreasonable by not extending the policy as Mrs C knew the policy expiry date shed 
agreed to. 
Mrs C said this was unfair as she hadnt been given a choice to select any other age. She 
said the policy isnt fulfilling its purpose, which is income protection cover until pensionable 
retirement age.
The case was passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C thinks its unfair that Phoenix wont extend her policy in line with the state increase of 
retirement age. I understand her point her and I can see she is in an unfortunate position of 
being too unwell to work, and now also unable to receive any income until her retirement 
age. But I cant fairly hold Phoenix accountable for her detriment. Ill explain why. 
Mrs C is unhappy that the state retirement age has changed and the impact this has 
had on her, rather than the way her policy with Phoenix works.  
I note Mrs Cs comments that she wasnt able to choose a later end date when the 
policy was incepted. She was given the option to choose an end date of a birthday 
between 55 and 65, but the policy stipulated it should not extend beyond her 
anticipated retirement age  which isnt unusual. 
Mrs C said the policy is meant to provide income protection until pensionable 
retirement age. I understand Mrs Cs frustration that state retirement age has now 
increased, but her policy was only intended to run for a fixed period of time. So I dont 
think its unreasonable Phoenix have said they wont extend the policy further that the 
date they originally agreed to. 
Phoenix took a risk to the age of 60 so Mrs Cs premiums and all other costs were 
based on the policy ending at this age. So I dont think theres anything more Phoenix 
can or should do in this situation.
Ultimately, Mrs C knew what her termination date was when she took the policy, and 
I dont think its unfair Phoenix have ended the policy as agreed. 
Unfortunately, extension of the policy just isnt available. I understand this is disappointing, 
but there arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Phoenix to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman