DRN-3362896
The complaint
Mr J says when he asked Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to tell him what he 
needed to do to take the benefits from his personal pension, he was shocked to find out 
about the poor performance of his plan. He asked it to investigate the matter. He was also 
concerned about administrative problems that had arisen in relation to his plan. Mr J says 
Aviva failed to respond properly to his complaint.
What happened
Mr J started a personal pension plan with Commercial Union (CU) on 8 March 1989. He 
contributed £20 a month, but only for a relatively short period. The policy was invested in its 
Managed fund. Later the same year, he also applied to transfer-in benefits from an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS). His benefits were moved to CU, but it failed to apply 
these to his new policy.
In 1998, Mr J discovered the problem with the transfer of his OPS benefits. After 
investigating, CU confirmed it had made a mistake and it provided him with redress to put his 
personal pension back into the position it wouldve been in had it completed the transaction 
properly in 1989. Again his funds were allocated to the Managed fund. It also offered him 
£250 for the way it had handled matters.
CU merged with General Accident in February 1998 to form CGU, which then merged with 
Norwich Union in May 2000 to form CGNU. It changed its name to Aviva in 2002. The fund 
in which Mr J was invested was renamed twice and most recently was called the Aviva 
Mixed Investment (40-85% Shares) (CU) Pension Standard Series 01 fund.
Mr J told this Service that Aviva didnt have a correspondence address for him. He had 
moved from the residence hed previously notified to it in 2011. And all the documentation for 
his pension plan had been left with his former wife as custodian because in the event of his 
demise she was the named beneficiary.
Between 2011 and 2019, Aviva continued sending correspondence about Mr Js policy to the 
address it had on file. Mr J says his wife had also moved out of that address in 2011 
because of ill-health.
Mr J says he called Aviva in July 2019 to find out about how he would be able to access his 
pension benefits. He was planning to do this when he reached 55 the following year. He 
says initially there were problems because his address hadnt been updated. But this was 
overcome following a soft credit check to verify his current residence.
Mr J was informed about the value of his pension plan and was shocked by how it had 
performed relative to some of his other policies. He said:
When I took out this policy, it was with Commercial Union Financial Services and I was an 
agent for CUFS at that time, I also transferred into this policy [OPS benefits], so upon 
receiving this news of the comparative poor performance, I was shocked and also extremely 
concerned as I had also set up this type of policy for quite a few people and now I was 
concerned that others like me would be upset at this poor performance when they come to 
their retirement.
I asked for this to be investigated and asked for a copy of all the annual statements for this 
policy since 2000 so I could see for myself a pattern of how this investment was 
performing..
Avivas notes of the calls it took from Mr J at this time indicate that he raised several other 
concerns. For example, he said hed been moved to Aviva without his consent and he 
thought something mayve gone wrong with his policy following the merger with Norwich 
Union.
Unfortunately during Mr Js interactions with Aviva during July 2019, it recorded his updated 
address incorrectly. As a result, its next three communications were sent to the wrong 
address. The letters included information about his pension policy, including its value; 
confirmation of his change of address; and subsequently correspondence informing him that 
its process for changing his address required a wet signature. 
Mr J didnt receive any of the letters Aviva sent him in July and August 2019. Its own records 
show these were returned to sender. 
Aviva produced a final response letter (FRL) for Mr J about the complaint hed raised. 
Amongst other matters, it said that the policy value was correct; that there was no evidence 
of fraud, theft or mismanagement; and that the policy had been administered in line with the 
terms and conditions. It confirmed that the policy had been invested in the same fund 
throughout. It said it couldnt have known that he hadnt been receiving his statements. 
Avivas FRL to Mr J was dated 8 August 2019. However, it wasnt addressed, presumably 
because of the issues it had with his details. And so it seems the letter wasnt sent to him at 
that time.
Mr J was away from home over the summer of 2019, returning in late September. When he 
called Aviva for an update on his complaint he was unable to get to the bottom of matters 
because of the issues with his address. He made several calls between October and 
November 2019, but things became more complicated when Avivas record of his National 
Insurance (NI) number didnt match what he told them, raising data protection issues.
On 6 December 2019 Aviva sent Mr J another FRL. It said there was still action he needed 
to take to confirm his correct address, and it advised what he needed to do. It also 
summarised its position on his complaint saying:
I feel that I should respond to your complaint without making any reference to policy 
specific information. On reviewing the information on our records, I do not believe Aviva 
have made any errors in the servicing of your policy.Ive also looked through the 
investigation carried out by one of my colleagues following your original complaint and have 
come to the same conclusions as they did. 
On 9 December 2019, following another phone call from Mr J, one of Avivas people got to 
the bottom of the issue with his address and national insurance number. His records were 
then corrected. Mr J had subsequent contacts with Aviva about his case.
Aviva issued a further FRL to Mr J on 23 January 2020, making the following points: 
- There had been some confusion over his address and NI number, for which it 
apologised. These had been corrected.
- It explained the performance of his pension plan by referring to investment conditions since 1990. It said the plan had achieved growth of 6.54% per annum between 
March 2011 and January 2020.
- His pension plan value had been checked with the actuarial team and was correct.
- Aviva had an obligation to make checks during calls to protect its customers. 
While Mr J went on to access his pension benefits of around £8,120 in March 2020 as hed 
wanted to do, he hadnt been satisfied with Avivas response to his complaint.
Mr J had a number of concerns about what had happened, for example he said Aviva hadnt 
explained what had caused the problems with his address and NI details. He thought its 
explanation of his fund performance was inadequate and wrong.
Mr J told this Service he was shocked when he discovered the value of his Aviva pension, 
this was significantly below his expectations which caused him concern. The problems he 
experienced in relation to his address and NI number exacerbated his anguish, he even 
thought his benefits were being stolen.
Mr J says that Avivas customer service had been disgraceful. One example of this had been 
its FRL of 6 December 2019 in which it had failed to address his substantive complaint 
points. This meant he had to be proactive in engaging with it again to try and get to the 
bottom of what had happened.
The Investigator considered the key elements of Mr Js case including, the merger and 
acquisition activity of the various entities that provided his pension plan; the performance of 
his plan; issues around his address and NI number details; data protection issues; and the 
customer service he received.
The Investigator upheld certain aspects of his case. In particular he found issues with 
Avivas handling of Mr Js address and NI number details. He also concluded there were 
deficiencies in the service it gave Mr J. Aviva accepted the Investigators findings and 
conclusions. 
The Investigator recommended Aviva pay Mr J £300 for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused. 
During the time Mr Js complaint had been with this Service, Aviva also discovered an error 
with the charges it had made against his fund (these shouldve been capped at 1% from 
April 2001). It hadnt made annual adjustments between March 2002 and March 2011, and 
so Mr J was owed about £365. The Investigator thought interest of 8% simple should be 
added to this payment (net of any tax due) from the date Mr J took his pension benefits until 
it settled.
Mr J didnt agree with the Investigator. He questioned a number of aspects of his findings 
including his assessment of the performance of his plan. He said much of the Investigators 
view had been based on opinion and not fact. And he said that no amount of compensation 
could ever give him back the time hed spent trying to resolve problems with Aviva.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I recognise Mr Js desire for a factual approach, rather than one based on opinion, 
where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Aviva for Mr J. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Aviva. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Aviva failed Mr J in a number of areas. 
For example, when taking details about his current address in a call in July 2019 it recorded 
the information incorrectly. It seems it also failed to let him know of any further process 
requirements to formalise the change at that time. This error resulted in several significant 
impacts including:
- Non-receipt by him of correspondence about his pension policy and the requirements 
Aviva had in relation to confirming his change of address details.
- It seems although Aviva had produced an FRL for Mr J in August 2019 about the 
complaint hed raised a month earlier, this was never sent to him because of the 
issues with his address. So, he wasnt informed about its position as quickly as he 
shouldve been.
- Mr J was already concerned about the position on his pension plan, the issue with his 
address led to his increased anxiety about what was happening. It also contributed to 
what became troubling phone exchanges between the parties.
It wasnt until December 2019 that Aviva gripped the situation and got to the bottom of what 
the problem was. I think this was too long. It had access to call recordings where it couldve 
checked what Mr J had told them about his address in July 2019 and how this had been 
verified. Not only should something have been apparent from the pattern of calls it was 
receiving from Mr J, it also knew its letters were being returned from the incorrect address.During Mr Js interactions with Aviva another problem arose with his personal information  
this time the record of his NI number. This again was Avivas responsibility. It told this 
Service:
Regarding the National Insurance Number, it appears that previously, Aviva did have [Mr 
Js] National Insurance Number correctly showing. However there seems to have been an 
issue when the computer systems were upgraded and a placemarker was input 
incorrectly by the system (ie ZZ999999Z).
While this issue was resolved at the same time as his address being properly recorded, 
this additional problem with his personal data led to further barriers being erected 
between him and Aviva. This heightened his confusion, frustration and concern about 
what was happening with his pension.
While Aviva clearly has a responsibility to its customers to protect personal information 
and ensure its talking to the right people, it was responsible for the problems with 
recording Mr Js address and his NI number. It shouldve resolved these matters much 
more quickly. And it shouldve acknowledged the problems to Mr J, identified how these 
had arisen and apologised.
Turning to matters of customer service. I think Aviva failed here in a number of areas as 
well. For example, in its short FRL to Mr J of 6 December 2019, it didnt address his main 
complaint points. It made reference to a previous investigation, the outcome of which it 
seems Mr J couldnt have been aware of and which it shouldve known he hadnt seen. 
And it asserted that it had made no errors. 
This was a poor communication from Aviva. It led to yet further angst for Mr J, who had 
yet again to try and engage with it about what was happening with his pension.
Mr J isnt blameless for how matters proceeded between him and Aviva. And as the 
Investigator noted:
According to Avivas notes, Mr J said on 11 July 2019 that he would keep calling back and 
be nasty to people, and although he said during the next call that he didnt want to discuss 
the complaint on the phone, he called Aviva numerous times subsequently, and there was 
little practical purpose to some of those calls. So it could be argued that he caused a lot of 
his own distress and inconvenience in effect, and that he shouldnt be compensated for it.
Ive listened to a number of the calls he had with Aviva staff between July 2019 and January 
2020. Many of these were very difficult. While its clear he was frustrated, angry and worried 
about his pension, there can be no excuse for some of the things he said to staff. While hes 
acknowledged that he didnt behave well on occasion, I think this is an understatement.
Im mindful that some months after his initial contact with Aviva he did share that he had a 
medical condition that caused him to get very stressed and upset easily. This mayve helped 
it understand why the problems he was experiencing caused him significant stress and 
affected his behaviour.
Perhaps it wouldve been better for both parties had Mr J shared information about his 
situation earlier. But equally, I cant see that when he did disclose this information that 
Avivas approach altered. The Investigator noted that he seemed to be able to get on better 
with one individual in particular and that potentially a helpful approach wouldve been to try 
to manage communications through that channel. I think theres merit in that suggestion. 
And certainly, I think it couldve done more to consider his needs better.
Next Ive thought about the issues Mr J raised about the performance of his pension policy. I note Mr J compared the performance of his Aviva policy to other pension plans he held. He 
didnt provide details, such as the different fund investments, charging regimes and 
contributions made to his plans. Without this data its not possible for me to comment on 
whether such a comparison is appropriate. There are many variables to consider when 
conducting such an analysis. As a former financial adviser he will understand my point.
Aviva said Mr J had stopped making contributions to his plan soon after it had been 
established. He had chosen how to invest his funds when the plan was set-up. And hed had 
the opportunity to select different funds, depending on his risk appetite throughout the 
lifetime of the plan. It said that since March 2011 his pension fund had achieved an average 
annual return of just over 6.5%.
Although I dont think Mr J received Avivas first FRL of 8 August 2019, its worth noting it 
confirmed his pension plan had been administered in line with the terms and conditions. It 
also said the value of the fund had been checked by its actuarial department. 
The Investigator looked into the position with Mr Js fund and found that it had performed 
broadly in line with its sector. The fact sheet he reviewed showed it had underperformed the 
sector by 2.9% in total over five years but outperformed the sector by 2.18% in total over the 
previous ten years. He thought Mr Js stated expectations for the fund had been unrealistic. 
This Service wouldnt usually consider complaints relating purely to fund performance, fund 
managers decisions will not always pay off, and investors have to accept that risk. From the 
available information, Ive not found anything obviously wrong or concerning about Mr Js 
Aviva fund value or related calculations. 
Finally, Mr J voiced concerns about possible data mining by Aviva staff when he interacted 
with some of them. As this appears to have been an issue of correct process, and not an 
issue that has caused or contributed to financial loss, if he wanted to pursue this matter it 
would be better dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office.
Putting things right
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Js I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Prudentials actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset.
Its clear to me that this was the case here. But I also need to be mindful of the complicating 
factors in this case, in particular Mr Js behaviour and Avivas response to that.
On balance, I think an award to Mr J of £300 for the trouble and upset Aviva caused is fair. 
I understand that Aviva may already have settled with Mr J for the money it owed him for 
taking around £365 too much in charges from his plan between 2001 and 2011. It is also 
required to pay interest on this sum at 8% simple from the date his retirement benefits were 
paid to the date of payment of redress. If Aviva considers that it is required to deduct tax, it 
should provide a tax deduction certificate so that Mr J can reclaim any overpaid tax.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Js complaint and require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman