DRN-3703022
The complaint
Miss S is a sole trader. She has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) didnt extend or 
refund her business protection insurance for the time she was unable to work due to Covid-
19.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds includes anything done by the underwriting 
syndicate. 
What happened
In August 2019 Miss S bought a business protection insurance policy with Lloyds which she 
paid for annually.  
Lloyds said that when Miss S was unable to work in March 2020 due to the impact of Covid-
19 and the Governments response to the pandemic, it added a 60 day extension to the 
policy, taking the renewal date to 30 October 2020. The policy renewed and Lloyds added a 
28 day extension which took the renewal date for the new policy to 28 October 2021. In 
January 2021 Lloyds added a further 32 day extension meaning the end date of the policy 
was 29 December 2021. 
Miss S didnt think this was fair as shed been unable to work for longer than 120 days over 
the period during which shed held the two policies. She said Lloyds should provide a refund 
for the time shed been unable to work or extend the policy by that same amount of time. 
Miss S complained to Lloyds. She said shed been treated unfairly when compared to 
customers who paid monthly, as theyd been able to take payment holidays. 
Lloyds thought it had treated Miss S fairly and reasonably. It said it had followed the 
Financial Conduct Authority guidance to ensure that it had considered the impact of Covid-
19 and as a result it had extended each policy for 60 days which was the maximum it 
offered. It said that while customers who paid monthly had payment holidays, those 
customers still needed to pay in full for their policies and they hadnt received the extra 
cover. Lloyds didnt think it should refund Miss S for the time she was unable to work as it 
said it was still on risk during that time as the policy covered claims brought against previous 
activities and other parts of the policy. Lloyds said if Miss S wanted to cancel the policy she 
would get a pro rata refund from the point it was cancelled. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Miss S brought her complaint to our service. She said she 
had heard of other customers being offered an extension to the policy for the same amount 
of time they had been unable to work. She said there wasnt any point cancelling her policy if 
she couldnt backdate the cancellation, as by the time she knew this was an option her 
business was about to reopen. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought the 60 day extension Lloyds had provided for each policy was fair and reasonable. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she was unable to work so her policy 
was null and void during that time and shes been penalised when compared to customers 
who paid monthly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has also complained about the actions of her broker. As thats a separate business, 
that is being dealt with separately and in this decision I can only comment on what Lloyds 
might or might not have done wrong. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Miss Ss business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy
While Miss S was unable to work for a number of months, I can see that the policies she 
held with Lloyds provided cover on a Claims Made or Reported Basis. This meant that 
Lloyds would provide Miss S with cover in the event that a claim was made against activities 
that had been carried out previously. Therefore, I dont agree that the insurance policies 
were null and void as Lloyds continued to be on risk for work Miss S had done before the 
pandemic, or for claims against her on other elements of the policy, even when Miss S 
wasnt able to operate her business. 
I appreciate that during the time her business was closed the level of risk might not have 
been the same as when Miss Ss business was operating. So, given that Lloyds continued 
to be on risk, I think providing an additional 60 days of cover for free was a fair and 
reasonable way to ensure that Miss Ss policy still provided value for her. 
I understand that Miss S feels that she has been treated unfairly when compared to 
customers who pay monthly. However, Lloyds have explained that any monthly paying 
customers who took payment holidays still had to pay for their policy in full but didnt get the 
extra 60 days cover. Therefore, I dont think Miss S has been treated unfairly. 
Cancellation
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss policy say that she can cancel the policy with 30 days 
notice. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to refuse to backdate the cancellation to 
the beginning of the policy and only offer a refund for the remaining period. I say because 
thats in line with the terms of the policy and Lloyds had been on risk for the time the policy 
was active and could have incurred a claim. I also think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds 
to point out that if Miss S did cancel her policy she would be without cover for claims against 
previous activities as this could have impacted her had a claim been made. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss S was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont require Lloyds to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman