DRN-3845100
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan, and then closed his bank accounts without notice or 
explanation. 
What happened
Mr C banked with Barclays, holding a personal account that he also used for business 
transactions. He wanted to apply to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan to support his 
business during the coronavirus pandemic, and opened a separate account with the bank 
under the business name in order to apply for the loan.
With the business account being newly opened, Barclays asked Mr C for proof of his trading 
activity in order to assess his loan application. He sent in some tax returns and calculations. 
Barclays reviewed the documents that Mr C provided, but wasnt satisfied that these 
evidenced his eligibility for the loan and declined his application. 
The banks review also led it to end its relationship with Mr C, and it closed both of his 
accounts without prior notice.
Mr C complained to Barclays about its decision to decline his loan application and close his 
accounts, for which he didnt think the bank had valid reason. Having been unable to open 
an account elsewhere, he was also concerned that the bank had recorded adverse 
information about him with credit reference agencies. 
Barclays said its decisions had been correct, and that it had closed Mr Cs accounts in 
accordance with the applicable terms and conditions. The bank also confirmed that it had 
placed a marker against Mr C, which it had done in accordance with its regulatory 
requirements. 
Mr C remained unhappy, so he referred the matter to us. He believed he was eligible for the 
Bounce Back Loan, and said that the banks immediate closure of his account had left him 
without access to funds for day-to-day expenses and the running of his business. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint and didnt find that Barclays had done 
anything wrong in declining his loan application or closing his accounts in the manner it had. 
She noted that Barclays had recorded information with the relevant agencies about the 
documents that Mr C had provided in support of his loan application, which she thought was 
justified. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He said that he had been running a genuine 
business since 2018 and qualified for the Bounce Back Loan  and that the documents hed 
provided to evidence this werent illegal or fraudulent. He still thought Barclays actions had 
been unfair, so he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Bounce Back Loan application
Mr C says he was eligible for the Bounce Back Loan and doesnt think Barclays acted fairly 
in declining his application. While he may have met some or indeed all of the core eligibility 
requirements, applications were also subject to a number of checks  including fraud, anti-
money laundering and Know Your Customer checks. And it was having failed these checks 
that Mr Cs application was declined.
Ive looked at the basis on which Barclays declined the application and I think it was 
reasonable. The bank received and reviewed some documents from Mr C that purportedly 
showed his trading activity, but with which it had some concerns. Having reviewed these 
documents myself, I think the banks concerns were justified. 
It also appears that Mr C requested a loan of £50,000, for which he wouldve self-declared 
an annual turnover of £200,000  when the documents hes provided the bank and us show 
a substantially lower level of income than this. That alone wouldve been grounds for the 
bank to have declined the application.
So taking all of this into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in declining Mr Cs 
Bounce Back Loan application.
The closure of Mr Cs bank accounts
Barclays concerns with the documents that Mr C had provided also led it to withdraw its 
services from him. That was a decision it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions of 
his accounts allowed the bank to close them immediately in certain circumstances, and I 
dont think it acted unreasonably in doing so here in light of its concerns. 
When referring his complaint to us, Mr C described being unable to access the funds held in 
his accounts in light of Barclays decision albeit in quite general terms. From what Ive seen, 
Barclays applied a block to the accounts for a few days pending their closure. The terms and 
conditions allowed the bank to restrict its services and, while it completed its review, I think it 
was reasonable for it do so in the circumstances here and I havent seen any unreasonable 
delay in concluding matters. 
Information recorded with external agencies
Barclays has a number of legal and regulatory obligations that it must comply with. It is 
entitled  and expected  to share information with credit reference and fraud-prevention 
agencies in fulfilling these obligations. 
I can see that Barclays has recorded information with an external agency in light of the 
concerns it had about the documents that Mr C provided in connection with his loan 
application. As Ive explained above, having reviewed those documents myself I think those 
concerns were valid. And so I think it was reasonable for Barclays to register the information 
that it did with the relevant agency.
The bank wasnt required to disclose the detail of its reasons to Mr C. He is free to approach 
the agencies that hold this information if he wishes to know more.I appreciate that all of these matters will have had a significant impact on Mr C and his 
business. But as Ive not found that Barclays has done anything wrong, I cant reasonably 
require it to compensate him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman