DRN-3953996
The complaint
Miss T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
withdrew from a payment plan it had agreed with her. She doesnt believe its treated her 
fairly.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint and invited both parties to let me have any 
comments or further evidence by the deadline. Below is a copy of my provisional decision. 
What happened
Miss T fell into financial difficulty and contacted Barclaycard in mid-June 2021 to discuss her 
situation. She completed an income and expenditure assessment which identified a monthly 
disposable income of £39. Barclaycard said it could put Miss T on a reduced payment plan 
over period of 12 months where she would be expected to pay £10 a month. Miss T 
commenced payments.
Barclaycard attempted to contact Miss T on the 20 August 2021 about the arrangement. 
However, Miss T wasnt sure if it was genuinely the bank. She asked Barclaycard to confirm 
if it had called her.
Barclaycard responded on 13 September 2021, confirming it had indeed called. It said its 
advisor had made a mistake in accepting £10, as this was lower than the disposable income 
amount and this didnt meet its criteria. Therefore, it hadnt put a formal plan in place. It 
acknowledged there had been shortcomings in not getting things right, apologised and 
offered to pay £75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Barclaycard added that if Miss Ts circumstances hadnt changed it could still put her on a 
reduced payment arrangement for £39 or if her circumstances had changed, it could look at 
other options. But to do this, it would need Miss T to contact it. 
Miss T didnt think Barclaycard were being fair. She couldnt understand how it could have 
reneged on the agreement - there hadnt been anything to suggest the arrangement was 
subject to further approval.
Miss T referred her complaint to our service. In doing so, she explained Barclaycards 
actions had had a detrimental effect on her well-being and that shed been close to a 
breakdown as a result. She wanted the bank to honour the original arrangement. Her other 
creditor had accepted a £1 a month. Meanwhile, she had continued to pay Barclaycard £10 
a month. Her financial situation was worse now than it had been in June 2021.
Barclaycard sent Miss T some further letters, together with a notice of default on 25 October 
2021, asking her to contact it by 25 November 2021.
Miss T told our investigator that shed written to Barclaycard in October and December 2021, 
but she hadnt got a response.
Barclaycard defaulted the account in December 2021.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. In summary, he said:
-In learning Barclaycard couldnt accept £10 Miss T would have been extremely upset 
and disappointed. 
-Shed been on a non-existent plan for £10 (through no fault of her own) and as a 
result, shed also been charged interest and other charges between July and August 
2021, which wasnt right. However, Barclaycard had now agreed to refund this (a£12 
fee, £140.84 and £152.34 interest charges). 
-Overall, he didnt think Barclaycard had been unreasonable in recording the default. 
It had encouraged Miss T to contact it to discuss her account/circumstances after 
notifying her of the mistake. But there was nothing to show she had got in touch or it 
had received her letters from October and December 2021. 
-He couldnt comment on what another creditor had done.
No further compensation was recommended. 
Miss T responded to say she didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She asked that her 
complaint be passed to an ombudsman and highlighted the following points:
- She maintained she hadnt been treated fairly in relation to the payment plan. 
- She hadnt accepted the £75 as it was a paltry sum for what shed been put through. 
- The advisor didnt mention she had a disposable income of £39. Had they she would 
have explained this was non-existent given her circumstances. 
- She didnt dispute Barclaycard recording the default as that was part of the process. 
Her other creditor had done the same when it had agreed to accept £1 a month. 
- It was convenient Barclaycard hadnt got these letters when it had got earlier 
correspondence. 
- The Financial Ombudsman Service leaflet hadnt been enclosed with a letter. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing to say is I dont think itd be fair to bind the bank to an arrangement that it only 
put in place through a mistake. Ultimately, its for Barclaycard to decide what its willing to 
accept in relation to any payment arrangement which represents a concession from the 
contractual payments. So, Im afraid theres no reasonable basis on which I can require 
Barclaycard to honour the original agreement. 
Barclaycard realised that it shouldnt have accepted £10 and it told Miss T what the actual 
situation was (albeit it this was two months later). It says that she should have been told that 
shed need to pay the £39. But Miss T couldnt do that  she says she didnt actually have 
£39. And that this figure wasnt mentioned or discussed with her. Based on this and the fact 
that Miss Ts financial difficulties werent short term, I dont think Barclaycard wouldve been in a position to agree to a reduced payment arrangement without defaulting the account and 
passing it over to its collections team (where theres usually greater flexibility to accept lower 
payments based on circumstances).
In which case, the account would have defaulted as it eventually did. But potentially a little 
earlier, following Miss Ts call in June 2021. More likely by July 2021 once the default notice 
ought to have been triggered and expired. So, I think theres a strong case to say that 
Barclaycard should amend the date of the default to July 2021 instead of December 2021. 
The investigator was correct in the sense that Barclaycard shouldnt have charged additional 
interest and other charges in July and August 2021. Because as set out above, the account 
should have defaulted by then. Barclaycard has acknowledged this and now refunded these 
amounts to the account balance. I think this is fair and reasonable. 
As set out above, Barclaycard didnt deal with things very well  it should have told Miss T 
that it couldnt set up a formal arrangement in June 2021. Miss T has told us it took a lot of 
effort and courage for her to face up to her financial difficulties and contact Barclaycard in 
June. It wasnt an easy thing for her to do. So, I can understand how distressing and 
disappointing it wouldve been for her to discover two months later that what she believed 
had bought her some relief wasnt possible. 
Thinking about this and what Miss T has told us about the anxiety she felt learning of the 
error, I dont believe £75 goes far enough. I think this needs to be increased to £200, as I 
think £200 is more reflective of the impact - this was clearly more than frustration and 
annoyance  it was a highly upsetting and triggering situation for Miss T. 
Other matters 
I dont doubt Miss T sent Barclaycard the letters shes mentioned but theres nothing on its 
notes to say they were safely received. So, I cant say it made a mistake in not issuing a 
response.
Im sorry to hear that our leaflet wasnt sent to her but strictly speaking this is a concern 
about complaint handling rather than a financial service, and complaint handling isnt 
something our service has the power to consider in isolation. But in any event, Im pleased to 
note that Miss T was still able to refer matters to us. 
Moving forwards Miss T has continued to pay Barclaycard £10 a month. But shes also 
indicated that her situation is worse now compared to June 2021. If this is the case, I would 
urge her to contact the banks collections team.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to: 
- amend the date of the default on Miss Ts credit file to July 2021; 
- refund the interest and other charges noted above (if it hasnt already done so); and 
- pay Miss T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. When responding, Id 
like Miss T to let me know if shed like that compensation paid directly to her or for 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to use it to reduce her outstanding credit card debt with it.
Miss T responded to my provisional decision to say that while she didnt agree with 
everything, she did accept my conclusions. She wanted Barclaycard to pay the £200 to her directly but wondered how the interest and charges refund would work given that the debt 
had been sold to another business. She added that the new owner had told her that it had 
details of a payment arrangement of £10 per month which had alarmed her. Barclaycard had 
investigated these further issues separately as a complaint and paid compensation for this. 
Barclaycard also responded to my provisional decision. It offered re-date the default to 
September 2021. It said it would usually wait until the account was three to six months in 
arrears before triggering a default and in September the account would have been three 
months in arrears. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard made no comment on the compensation amount I intended to award for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. So, I see no basis to change that figure as part of this 
final decision. However, Barclaycard should note that Miss T has asked that the £200 be 
paid directly to her. So thats what Id expect to happen.  
Barclaycard suggested it would be reasonable to re-date the default to September 2021 and 
provided its rationale. So, I asked the investigator to put this to Miss T as it wasnt 
unreasonable given that defaults are generally triggered between three to six months. Miss T 
said she was agreeable to accepting this and a few extra months wouldnt make a 
difference. So, in resolving this complaint the default should be re-dated to September 2021.  
Miss T made me aware that the outstanding debt had been sold by Barclaycard. She 
expressed concerns about how this would affect the refund of interest and charges shes 
due. On this point, Barclaycard did indicate to our investigator that it had already refunded 
these. But in the event that it hasnt it should liaise with the new debt owner to ensure that 
the refund is used to reduce the outstanding balance. It should also give Miss T proof that 
the debt has reduced accordingly.  
I would urge Miss T to contact the new debt owner to see what help it can offer her.  
Finally, both Miss T and Barclaycard provided some background information in relation to 
later issues which were reviewed as part of a new complaint. The information has been 
helpful in understanding whats happened since I first reviewed the case. But for clarity, I 
make no further comment on those matters as part of this final decision  they are separate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should:
- amend the date of the default on Miss Ts credit file to September 2021; 
- refund the interest and other charges noted above. And if it hasnt already done so to liaise 
with the new debt owner to ensure this happens;
- provide Miss T with written proof that the refund has been used to reduce her outstanding 
balance; and
- pay Miss T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to an account she nominates.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman