DRN-3174724
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her bank account.
What happened
Mrs J says she was informed by Barclays they would be closing her account. She then 
received a letter from Barclays saying her account had been closed with immediate effect. 
Mrs J says she had personal commitments she couldnt meet so she had to rely on others 
for financial help. Mrs J complained to Barclays.  
Barclays responded and explained, having reviewed the case, theyve decided to reopen 
Mrs Js account and reinstate their service. They apologised for the time taken to carry out 
their review. They said, they regularly carry out reviews of each customers banking 
arrangements and, following their review of Mrs Js account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, the decision was incorrectly made to terminate her bank account. 
As an apology for their error, they offered £250 compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs J. She thought Barclays had made an error in 
closing Mrs Js account and felt their offer of compensation was reasonable. Mrs J disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Barclays offer is a fair way to resolve matters and I agree with 
the investigators recommendation. I understand Mrs J will be disappointed by this but Ill 
explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs J. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Barclays have admitted they got things wrong when they closed Mrs Js account. 
The only issue I have to decide is whether the steps theyve taken to put things right are fair 
and reasonable.
I think its right that Barclays should compensate Mrs J for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Mrs J was clearly upset and shocked at Barclays decision to 
close her account and she was then inconvenienced by having to arrange for others to meet 
her personal commitments. So, while I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay 
compensation, Ive considered the impact this error had on Mrs J.    
Mrs Js account was closed in December 2020 and wasnt reopened until around two 
months later. The first point Ive considered is the timing and how this impacted Mrs J. The 
account was closed a few days before Christmas which meant Mrs J didnt have access to 
funds during a period when it was important for her to be able to access money. The next 
point Ive considered is what steps Mrs J had to take and how this impacted her. Mrs J has 
told our service her daughter had to fund all of her personal commitments and this took time 
to arrange. Mrs J says she had to pick up her car from a garage but, because she didnt 
have access to her account, she had to rely on someone else to pay the garages invoice 
and they had to travel from another location. Mrs J also says the issue caused additional 
stress for her as she was unable to access funds to pay for her late mothers private medical 
treatment. Mrs J also had to switch her monthly direct debits, such as her mortgage, to 
someone elses account.   
When we identify errors in service, we expect, where possible, for firms to put a customer 
back in the same position they were in before the error occurred. In this case, Barclays have 
reopened Mrs Js account. At the time Mrs Js account was closed she had an overdraft 
facility in place. Barclays are looking to reinstate this but, given the time which has lapsed, 
they need to ensure Mrs Js affordability for the level of borrowing remains. So, Barclays 
contacted Mrs J to complete an income and expenditure assessment. Following this, 
Barclays required some documents from Mrs J but despite them, and our service, chasing I 
cant see Mrs J has provided these. So, Barclays arent able to reinstate the overdraft. And, 
given the time which has now passed, Barclays will need to complete another income and 
expenditure assessment and overdraft application. 
It wouldve been helpful to know if Barclays were able to reinstate the overdraft but, despite 
Barclays and our services efforts, Mrs J hasnt provided the information they require to 
complete the process. I must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this 
case, for Barclays to have to continue waiting for an outcome to the complaint. Im satisfied 
weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable Mrs J to respond so Ive 
proceeded to decide the complaint on the information I have. 
Taking into account the impact the error had on Mrs J, I think the £250 offered by Barclays is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the upset and inconvenience to Mrs J. 
In relation to the overdraft, if Mrs J does wish to have this facility in place then she will need 
to contact Barclays to go through another income and expenditure assessment and will need 
to provide any information Barclays require to complete their process for an overdraft. If 
however Mrs J doesnt wish to have an overdraft in place then, if her reopened account is 
overdrawn and Barclays require this to be repaid, then Barclays should arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for the overdraft to be cleared for an amount which is affordable for Mrs J. 
Barclays have also said, they will amend Mrs Js credit file if necessary. And, I think this is 
reasonable if any adverse information has been recorded on Mrs Js credit file as a result of 
Barclays error.  
I understand Mrs J wants Barclays to provide a more detailed response to why her account 
was closed. The terms and conditions of Mrs Js account do allow Barclays to close an 
account immediately or on less notice if they reasonably believe a customer has seriously or 
persistently broken any terms of the agreement. The terms and conditions go further and 
provide a list of scenarios which allow Barclays to close an account immediately. I 
acknowledge it will be frustrating for Mrs J to not know the specific details around Barclays 
reasoning but theres no provision within the terms and conditions which requires Barclays to 
give a reason. 
I note Mrs J says Barclays told her to make alternative arrangements for her direct debits as 
her account would be closed. Mrs J says she arranged for her daughter to make a mortgage 
payment in December but Barclays then allowed a mortgage payment to be made from her 
closed account. I can see a mortgage payment is made from Mrs Js account. I cant see 
Barclays have been given an opportunity to address this complaint under their complaints 
process so Ill leave it with Mrs J to raise this separately if she wishes to complain about this. 
If this payment was for the same month, then it appears there has been an overpayment 
towards Mrs Js monthly mortgage. The direct debit from Barclays will have been requested by the mortgage provider. So, if this hasnt been refunded by them to Mrs J, and there has 
been an error in them collecting the payment when it had already been paid, Mrs J can raise 
this with Barclays and request a refund under the Direct Debit Guarantee. It would of course 
be for Barclays to then determine whether this meets the relevant criteria.    
In summary, I think Barclays have made an error here and I think their offer of £250 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already made an offer to pay £250 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £250 to Mrs J, if they havent done 
so already. And, they should also amend any adverse information on Mrs Js credit file if 
necessary. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman