DRN-3490430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the service they got from Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
after making a motor insurance claim and about its protected no claims discount scheme.
What happened
After an accident, Admirals claims advisor told Mr B about the benefits of using its approved 
repairer (garage A). Later on Mr B said garage A had charged over £1,200 for the work 
when a local repairer had quoted £318. He also said Admirals premium at renewal had risen 
from £709 to £1,223 - but another insurer had provided cover for a much lower price. Mr B 
said he wasnt told that making a claim would lead to a rise in premium  and that he hadnt 
expected one, as he and Mrs B had been paying to protect their no claims discount (NCD) 
for many years. He wanted those payments to be refunded. Mr B said Admiral had no 
interest in controlling costs and wanted us to investigate its relationships with its contractors.
Admiral said when Mr B bought the NCD protection the sales advisor told him it didnt protect 
the base price of the premium. It said claims advisors cant say whether a premium will rise 
or not after making a claim  and renewal prices are calculated just before the new premium 
is due. Admiral also said its in-house engineer had no concerns about garage As charges. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He thought garage As bill was 
reasonable, as it took a different approach to repairing the car than the local repairer (by 
replacing, not repairing, parts). He noted that the policy says NCD protection doesnt stop 
the cost of premiums rising. He thought Mr and Mrs B had benefitted from the protection, as 
their premium would have been even higher without it. The investigator accepted that Mr B 
wouldnt have made a claim if the claims advisor had said it would lead to a rise in premium. 
So he thought Admiral should remove the fault claim from databases. Admiral said it couldnt 
remove the claim from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE).
When the complaint was passed to me for review, I issued a provisional decision (potentially 
not upholding it) along the following lines:
I cant investigate Admirals relationship with its contractors or say what general 
policies and practices it should operate, as these matters fall outside our remit. 
The Financial Conduct Authority has a wider remit and its open to Mr and Mrs B 
to contact it about those issues. 
In terms of protected NCD, in the sales call the advisor told Mr B that protecting 
the NCD would not prevent a rise in premiums, but Mr B still bought it. Mr B 
agrees that this information is also in the policy documents, but he remained 
confused about it. He told an advisor he thought the NCD would be affected by 
the claim. He was advised that it wouldnt, but that one of the NCD lives would 
be lost. Mr B didnt query it - or mention the premium. He thinks the fact that 
premiums may rise, despite NCD protection, should be displayed more 
prominently. We cant tell Admiral how to set out its information  but I think its 
set out clearly enough. And I think Mr and Mrs B benefitted from the NCD 
protection. Their 2021 quote would have been 36% higher without it  and they 
could have made two claims on the policy in three years with the NCD intact. 
Mr B says the proposed 2021 increase in premium was excessive. I think it was 
substantial, but Admiral provided us with confidential underwriting evidence that 
shows the calculation was correct. As it was based on numerous factors (not just 
on the claim) Mr and Mrs B may have been unhappy with it even if they hadnt 
made a claim. And they didnt have to insure with Admiral. The renewal quote 
advised them to look around for other quotes - and they found a cheaper one. 
Admiral says claims advisors dont comment on the possible effect of a claim on 
a future premium unless the consumer asks about it. It says the advisors wont 
know whether the premium will rise anyway. So I think the most the advisor could 
have said to Mr B was that the premium may or may not rise. I dont think that 
would necessarily have prevented Mr B from making a claim  and we cant tell 
Admiral what to include in its advisors scripts anyway. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the advisor not to raise the issue  and I dont think Mr B was 
misled by Admiral about the claims process and its impact.  
Mr B asked the claims advisor whether garage A was an honest firm and if the 
cost of repairs would exceed the policy excess. The advisor said that was likely, 
but that the garages charges would have to be agreed by Admiral in advance  
and that it would provide a courtesy car. Mr B had the option to use the local 
repairer (for around the cost of the policy excess he paid to Admiral). But thats all 
he had to pay for garage As more substantial repairs. Mr B said later he chose 
garage A because it provided a courtesy car. But the work done by garage A was 
greater (and guaranteed by Admiral). It replaced the cars tailgate, rather than 
just repairing it. Admirals engineer agreed the replacement was appropriate. I 
think the reason for the difference in the quotes from each garage is clear. 
I dont think Mr B has shown that Admiral isnt concerned about controlling costs.  
Insurers in-house engineers do that routinely and challenge them as necessary. 
In this case, Admirals engineer had no concerns about the work or its cost. And it 
wouldnt be in Admirals interests to allow excessive charges to be made by 
garages and then try to get the money back from consumers through higher 
premiums, as Mr B has suggested. Consumers will seek cover elsewhere if they 
arent happy with proposed premiums, just as Mr and Mrs B did here.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings, but neither Admiral 
nor Mr and Mrs B did so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments from Mr and Mrs B, I dont think their complaint 
should be upheld. In my opinion, they havent shown that Admiral misled them or acted 
unreasonably. For the cost of the policy excess, Mr and Mrs B had the repairs to their car 
done to a high standard, guaranteed by Admiral, plus the benefit of a courtesy car. Mr B was 
made aware from the outset that protected NCD wouldnt stop future premiums rising, as the 
base cost of policies may rise for numerous reasons. I think Mr and Mrs B benefitted from 
the NCD protection, given that they could have made two fault claims within three years 
whilst it remained in place. And they didnt have to pay an increased premium at renewal, so 
I dont think they lost out financially as a result of the claim.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, but I think its a fair and 
reasonable outcome, based on all the information available to me.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman