DRN-1057997
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2003 when Mrs B applied for a credit card. Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold 
her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs B complained to this Service. She said the PPI was added without her knowledge or 
consent.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. She added the PPI was 
poor value because of her good employee benefits and stable employment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear on the credit card application form that Mrs B didnt 
have to take out the PPI and  by ticking the Yes option on the form - she chose to 
take it out with her consent and knowledge. Although I can understand why she may 
not be able to  remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off from taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs B said - including what she said about the policy providing 
poor value for her given her good employee benefits and stable employment.  But these 
points dont change my decision. If Mrs B had made a successful claim on the PPI, it could 
have paid out for 12 months. These payments would have lasted for longer than her sick pay 
and savings. So I think the policy would have been of some benefit to her
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman