DRN-3827890
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly by failing to notify her that a 
promotional interest free period on a credit card was ending. She requests that it reimburses 
her the interest she paid on the account.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs J took out a credit card with an 18-month interest free balance transfer 
promotional period and a three-month interest free promotional period for new purchases. 
She opted to receive the statements for the account online and set up a direct debit payment 
for the minimum payment to be made each month. She used the account to make a balance 
transfer from another credit card.
Mrs J says that she has never been able to access her account online. 
In April 2021 the promotional period ended, and interest was charged on the balance of the 
account. Mrs J continued to pay the account minimal payments via direct debit.
In February 2022 Mrs J called Santander and explained that she was unable to access her 
account and enquired as to when the interest period was ending. The agent advised her as 
to how she could have the account unlocked which required her to visit a branch with proof 
of her identity. They also explained that the interest free period had ended and that it wasnt 
Santanders process to send out letters to customers advising of the end dates of any 
promotional periods that may run with credit card accounts. Mrs J was unhappy to learn she 
had been paying interest on the balance since April 2021. She made arrangements to pay it 
off in full.
Mrs J complained to Santander that it had failed to notify her the interest free period was 
ending, if it had, she said, she would have been able to avoid paying the interest. Santander 
didnt uphold her complaint. It said that the length of the promotional period was set out in 
the terms and conditions of the credit card and these had been provided to Mrs J when she 
had acquired it. Santander also said that it had sent Mrs J a SMS alert prior to the period 
ending and that this information had been included in the March 2021 account statement.
Mrs J was unhappy at the response from Santander and complained to this service. She 
said it would be fair for Santander to reimburse her the interest she had paid on the account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. He said he 
didnt think Santander had acted unfairly when the promotional period for the credit card 
account had ended. He said he thought Mrs J had been aware the credit card had a 
promotional period when she took it out and that Santander had sent her a SMS message 
when the period was ending.
Mrs J disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said that Santander didnt take the 
appropriate steps to notify her that the promotional period was ending and other credit 
companies have sent letters in this situation to its customers. Mrs J says she didnt get the 
SMS from Santander.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs J feels strongly that Santander should have provided her with a better 
customer service in respect of the promotional interest free period ending on this account 
but, while I appreciate this will be of disappointment to her I disagree.
Santander says that it doesnt send out letters advising customers that a promotional interest 
free period is about to end and I dont think I can reasonably say that this necessarily means 
it treated Mrs J unfairly. I think that the length of the promotional period was clear from the 
terms and conditions that were provided to Mrs J when she took out the credit card. So, I 
think its reasonable to say that Mrs J ought to have been aware when the promotional 
period would be ending.
Mrs J says she didnt have access to her online account from the point of opening it and 
therefore didnt have access to her statements. However, I would have expected her to do 
more about this since she used the credit card account for a balance transfer. I think its fair 
to say Mrs J should have been aware there was a sizeable balance on the credit card 
account and that she had set it for only the minimum payments to be made towards this 
balance.
I appreciate Mrs J says she made attempts to contact Santander about her difficulties 
accessing the account but Im unclear how many times she rang it. And it also appears 
unlikely that she actually spoke to anyone at Santander before February 2022. I say this 
having listened to a call between Mrs J and Santander that took place in February 2022. 
During this call, the agent explained to Mrs J how she could gain access to her credit card 
account. And Mrs J then asked if the promotional period had ended confirming she had 
opened the credit card account in October 2019.  Mrs J says she thought the account had a 
two-year promotional rate, but the agent informed her it was 18 months. I think this phone 
call confirms that Mrs J was likely to have been aware that the accounts promotional interest 
free period had probably ended.
As Mrs J had opted to receive her credit card statements online and had made use of the 
promotional interest free period then I think its fair to have expected her to do more than she 
did in managing this account. As set out above she didnt make contact with Santander until 
February 2022 and while I accept there may have been times when she couldnt get through, 
I would have still expected her do more than she did to make contact. I understand she used 
Santander for other services.
And while I accept Mrs J didnt have access to her account statements, I think it would also 
be reasonable to have expected her to notice that from April 2021 her direct debit payments 
to Santander had increased for this account. There was a noticeable change from the 
minimum payment amount she had been paying once interest was added to the balance. I 
think its fair to consider this should also have alerted her that the promotional period had 
ended.
Ive seen that Santander sent Mrs J a SMS to the mobile number registered on her account 
and although I dont know why this wasnt received I think its more likely than not that 
Santander did message her that the promotional period was about to end.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint as I dont think Santander acted unfairly in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and although I am sorry to disappoint Mrs J, Im not upholding 
her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman