DRN-4011399
The complaint
Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss P applied online for a credit card from Halifax on 27 December 2017. She was given a
credit limit of £900. The account defaulted in October 2022 with a balance of £793.88
Miss P says as she banks with Halifax it knew she was always overdrawn and should not 
have allowed her to take out a credit card. She is reliant on benefits and this card made her 
financial difficulties worse. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ps complaint, saying Halifaxs checks were not proportionate 
and had it better assessed the data it had access to it would have realised the credit card 
would most likely not be sustainably affordable for Miss P.
Halifax disagreed with this assessment so the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ps complaint.
Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ps income and expenditure.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Halifax should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss P. These factors might include
Miss Ps income, how much the repayments were, the frequency of the borrowing and how
long Miss P had been indebted.
Halifax says that it carried out all relevant checks when making its decision and the card was 
deemed to be affordable for Miss P. It says that Miss P declared a gross annual income of 
£14,000 and it calculated that she had £466 of monthly disposable income after taking into 
account her housing, living and credit costs. There was no adverse information on her credit 
file. Halifax explains its system is highly automated and delivers a decision in seconds. 
I appreciate that Halifaxs lending decision was automated, but this does not mean that
obvious available information should be ignored. Halifax had an excellent source of data
about Miss Ps financial circumstances  its own internal records. Miss P had an existing
relationship with Halifax as she held two current accounts at the bank. This information was 
easily accessible and clearly relevant to her credit card application, and I think that Halifax 
should have taken this into account.
From the bank statements Halifax has provided, I can see that Miss P was persistently 
reliant on the overdraft facility on both current accounts. Neither account was in credit in the 
three months before this credit card application so Miss P was clearly already struggling 
financially. It was also clear her actual income was lower than declared for October and 
November 2017 and had Halifax used that income data it already had its affordability 
assessment would have shown Miss P to have no disposable income. Whilst her income did 
increase in December 2017, Miss P remained reliant on both of her overdraft facilities and 
clearly remained under financial pressure.
It follows I think Halifax was wrong to give this card with to Miss P.
Putting things right
As I dont think Halifax ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be able 
to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I do think Miss P should 
pay back the capital she has borrowed as she has had the benefit of that money.
If Halifax has sold the debt, it should first try to buy it back. If this is not possible it must
work with the new owner to achieve the same outcome for Miss P as the steps set out 
below.
Therefore, Halifax should:
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have not 
already been refunded) that have been applied.
- As this will result in an outstanding balance, Halifax should ensure the existing
repayment plan for the remaining amount remains affordable for Miss P.
- Once Miss P has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the
account should be removed from her credit file.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ps complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, must put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman