DRN-2897054
The complaint
Mr S and Ms C complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr S and Ms C were due to travel abroad between 21 July and 1 August 2020. Theyd 
booked their flights and accommodation separately. However, on 3 July 2020, Mr S and Ms 
Cs airline cancelled their flights. Mr S and Ms C were concerned about the Covid-19 
pandemic and the challenges their family might experience in making alternative 
arrangements to travel to their accommodation. So they decided not to travel  although 
others in their travelling party decided to go as planned. They were able to obtain a refund of 
their flight costs from their airline. Therefore they made a claim on their travel insurance 
policy for their share of the accommodation costs.
Mapfre turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy covered the 
cancellation of a policyholders holiday if the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) had 
advised against all but essential travel. In this case, at the time Mr S and Ms C had decided 
not to travel, there was no FCO advice against travelling to their planned destination. So 
Mapfre said the claim wasnt covered.
Mr S and Ms C were unhappy with Mapfres decision. They asked us to look into their 
complaint. They also sent screenshots of a webchat between Mr S and Mapfre dating from 
before the final accommodation balance had been paid. During this webchat, Mapfre had 
told Mr S that if he chose not to pay the balance of the trip and there was no FCO advice 
against travel in place, he wouldnt be covered. So Mr S and Ms C felt theyd been misled.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She considered the 
cancellation section of the policy. She noted it covered cancellation claims if the FCO had 
advised against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination. But at the time Mr S 
and Ms C had decided against travelling, there was no FCO advice against travelling to their 
destination. She felt the reason theyd decided to cancel the trip was because the flights had 
been cancelled, which wasnt something the policy covered. And she didnt think that Mapfre 
had given Mr S misleading advice during the webchat. So she didnt think itd been unfair for 
Mapfre to turn down the claim.
Mr S and Ms C disagreed. They said they wouldnt have wanted to travel via a longer route, 
given they have a young family and doubts around Covid-19. They stated theyd been with 
their broker for around 10 years and they felt that by following Mapfres advice, theyd lost 
out on years of loyalty.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and Ms C, I think it was fair for Mapfre to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr S and Ms Cs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to 
decide whether Mapfre handled it fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S 
and Ms Cs contract with Mapfre. As Mr S and Ms C didnt travel on their holiday, I think it 
was appropriate for Mapfre to assess the claim under the cancellation section of the policy. 
This says:
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below, we 
will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for unused travel and 
accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay under a contract and 
which you cannot get back
You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO) Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location changing to as a 
minimum all but essential travel after the purchase of your policy, or after the booking 
of any individual trip, whichever is the latter.
In this case, it seems Mr S and Ms Cs airline cancelled their flight on 3 July 2020. At this 
point, I acknowledge there was still FCO advice against travel to their intended destination. 
However, the accommodation wasnt cancelled at this point (or any point) because other 
members of Mr S and Ms Cs party chose to travel via a different route and make use of it. 
The FCO later advised that as of 10 July 2020, Mr S and Ms Cs destination would be placed 
on an exemption list, which meant that it was no longer advising against all but essential 
travel to that country. This exemption remained in place until after Mr S and Ms C were due 
to travel abroad. So FCO advice wouldnt have prevented Mr S and Ms C from travelling on 
their planned departure date.
I agree with the investigator that it seems that Mr S and Ms C chose not to travel because 
they were concerned about the challenges that making alternative travel arrangements might 
pose to their family. It doesnt appear there was no option for them to do so, or that they 
couldnt have booked new flights/alternative means of travel. I say that because theyve told 
us that other members of their party were able to travel. The cancellation of flights by an 
airline isnt a specified risk Mapfre has chosen to insure under this section of the policy. Id 
add that I do sympathise with Mr S and Ms Cs position, as I appreciate they were left in a 
tricky situation. But I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Mapfre to step outside of the 
policy terms to pay this claim. This means I think it was fair for Mapfre to conclude that Mr S 
and Ms Cs claim isnt covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
Its clear Mr S and Ms C feel strongly that Mapfre misled them when Mr S contacted its 
webchat for advice.  And that this led to them paying the balance and incurring higher losses 
than they otherwise wouldve done. Ive looked closely at the screenshots theyve sent us 
showing this chat. I can see that Mr S did ask what would happen if he paid the balance of 
the accommodation costs. In summary, Mapfre told him that if he paid for the villa, and FCO 
advice against travel was still in place and he couldnt get a refund from the owner, the claim 
would be covered. This was in line with the policy terms. Mapfre also explained that if the 
FCO advice changed to allow travel, but Mr S had chosen not to pay the balance, which 
meant he therefore couldnt travel, any claim wouldnt be covered. Again, this is in line with the policy terms. Im also mindful that Mapfre told Mr S that they couldnt advise him what to 
do and it was completely up to him. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mapfre did 
mislead Mr S. I think it gave him information about how the policy worked and explained he 
could choose how to proceed. 
So I also dont think I could fairly tell Mapfre to pay the claim on this basis. Overall, in these 
circumstances, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr S and Ms Cs claim. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman