DRN-2459272
The complaint
Mr C complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has treated him unfairly with how its 
priced the cost of his buildings insurance over a number of years. Hes also complained 
about cover being removed. 
What happened
Mr Cs buildings insurance has been provided by Covea since 2003 after it took over the 
underwriting of the policy. When Covea first provided the insurance it cost £255.53 per year 
with a sum insured of £88,490. By 2019 the renewal price offered for the policy was £766.03 
with a sum insured of £162,315.
In 2019 Mr C contacted Covea to talk about the price he was paying for his insurance but as 
the policy had already renewed for that year, he was advised this couldnt be amended mid-
term. Mr C also spoke about a historical subsidence claim at his property. Covea at this point 
explained it had no record of this claim and would need to exclude this cover from the policy.
Mr C complained about both the policy increases overtime and the fact his subsidence cover 
had been removed. 
Covea later agreed to provide the subsidence cover in full but it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong with how its priced Mr Cs insurance. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think Covea had treated him unfairly 
with how the policy was priced. She didnt comment on the subsidence cover being removed 
and added again as she felt this issue had been resolved when Covea added the cover back 
onto the policy.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He accepted the reasons for the price increases but 
still felt Covea had failed to treat him fairly.
He felt Covea should have shared information in previous years about the underwiring 
losses it had made to inform customers the cost of their policy might increase. He 
highlighted the work of the FCA and its recent consultation paper  now final policy 
statement  on general insurance pricing and highlighted himself as a victim of price walking. 
He said he trusted he was being treated fairly by his insurer and accepted yearly increases 
based on this trust. He feels the fact he can obtain cover for his property for significantly less 
than Covea was able to offer it for demonstrates how it was treating him unfairly as a loyal 
customer with his premiums covering the losses made overall.
Because Mr C disagreed with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr C but Ill explain why.
Mr C has highlighted the recent FCAs policy statement on general insurance pricing which 
introduces new rules on how renewal premiums must be offered from January 2022. The 
primary remedy within this is a ban on price walking and new customer discounts. Going 
forward the renewal cost needs to be equivalent to the new business cost on the day the 
renewal is offered. Mr Cs concerned hes been a victim price walking and paid more than he 
should have for his insurance as a result of his loyalty and ongoing acceptance of the 
renewals prices offered.
Mr Cs had his policy with Covea since 2003 and theres been little engagement with it at 
renewal to discuss the cost of the insurance offered. And with him recently finding he can 
obtain suitable alternative cover for significantly less than he was paying, its understandable 
why hes concerned that his loyalty has been taken advantage off. 
Ive considered whether his lack of engagement (inertia) has resulted in him being treated 
unfairly, so whether the price increases have been applied simply as a result of Mr Cs 
behaviour and likelihood to accept these.
Different insurers will rate risk differently and the view they take on the risk together with a 
range of other factors all impacts the price theyre prepared to offer their insurance for. The 
range of prices on comparison websites for the same insurance demonstrates how different 
this view of the risk can be from one insurer to another. And just because one costs more, it 
doesnt mean the other insurer has acted unfairly.
Covea has explained whats impacted the costs of Mr Cs policy over time. Our investigator 
went into some detail on this and Mr C has said he accepts the reasons for the increases, so 
I wont repeat all that was said. But I think its clear from the information provided, Mr Cs 
premium hasnt increased simply because of his inertia.
Theres a number of factors which have impacted the cost of the policy over time. Covea has 
explained there was several years where there was poor underwriting performance with 
three consecutive years where the book was unprofitable as claims outweighed the 
premiums. 
In 2010 Covea also added an additional premium for customers who paid for their insurance 
monthly. The increase represented the additional cost to Covea of the cost being spread by 
providing finance. Mr C paid monthly and inline with how other customers who chose to pay 
monthly had this increase to his overall premium.
These costs together with insurance premium tax increases and the impact of schemes like 
Flood Re and how Covea applied the cost of this scheme to all its customers have had an 
impact on Mr Cs premium.  The policy is also inflation linked with the cover increasing inline 
with this each year.
I understand Mr C is frustrated and feels a lack of transparency around some of the things 
which have driven the price increases means hes been treated unfairly. But I dont think 
Covea has done anything wrong with how its applied these. And I think it has provided some 
information on what it knows will impact the cost of the policy.The terms and conditions for the account explain the following with the sum insured:
Inflation protection
The sums insured stated in the schedule for this section are index linked and will be 
adjusted each month in line with the percentage changes to the appropriate indicies. At 
each renewal, the premium will be calculated on the adjusted sums insured.
 
The index linked inflation is one of the biggest cumulative drivers to the cost of Mr Cs 
insurance and I think Covea has been clear about how the premium will be adjusted to 
reflect the sum insured changing. The price increases have been reflective of this and I dont 
think Covea has treated Mr C unfairly when its made these increases each year.
Insurance premium tax isnt set by Covea and so it cant control the changes with this. But it 
has detailed on the policy schedule each year how much of the premium relates to this and it 
is a cost which has increased over the last 13 years from 5% in 2008 to its current rate of 
12% for buildings insurance today. This will have impacted the cost of Mr Cs insurance but I 
dont think this being applied demonstrates Covea has treated Mr C unfairly.
The years when Coveas insurance didnt perform as well as it had projected and the losses 
are something Mr C feels should have been shared with him. And when this wasnt he 
believes hes been treated unfairly. I dont agree this needs to be shared or should have 
been. 
Insurance provides cover for specified events/insured perils and these will be known by the 
insurer as they set the policy and agree the cover. But the number of claims for these events 
is an unknown and the projected cost of claims can be higher or lower than expected.  And 
so things like claims inflation and performance will always impact the view of the risk a 
business is taking overall as it learns from previous years and makes it projections for the 
future. Covea has explained its premiums have increased as result of changes like these 
and this is the reason Mr Cs policy increased in price over time too. 
The detail around performance margins and whether these are met is commercially sensitive 
and not something Id expect Covea to share with customers. These changes have been 
applied to all customers so I dont think Mr C has been treated differently or unfairly.
Overall, Ive not seen anything which shows me Covea has treated Mr C unfairly with how it 
has priced his policy. Changes in price have been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions as his level of cover has increased linked to inflation. Other costs have been 
applied which all represent Covea changing its view of the risk. Im satisfied these havent 
been applied simply because Mr C wasnt engaging with the cost of his policy and although I 
appreciate he can get suitable alternative cover for less, this doesnt mean Covea has acted 
unfairly when offering the price it did to provide cover each year. 
The removal of subsidence cover
Mr C has also complained about his subsidence cover being removed after he notified 
Covea in 2019 of a historic claim. This was later reapplied to the policy after it was reviewed 
by Coveas underwriting team.
I understand the concern about this being taken away and whether this could have caused 
an issue had a claim needed to have been made previously. Whether a claim would have 
been affected is hypothetical and so to comment on whether this would or wouldnt have been covered isnt something I plan to do. And the cover Covea is willing to provide is its 
commercial decision to make. 
I think Covea took steps to quickly review the decision to remove cover pragmatically at the 
appropriate level and confirmed this was back on cover with Mr C soon after he was told it 
was removed. So he wasnt left worrying that the cover wasnt in place for a long period of 
time. Because of this, I dont think Covea need to do anymore with this element of Mr Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint against Covea 
Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman