DRN-3049565
The complaint
Mr S complained about problems experienced when he attempted to make urgent online 
payments from his account with State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SIB).
What happened
On 30 December 2020, Mr S attempted to transfer funds by faster payment from his account 
with SIB to an account held with another UK bank. The payment request was made using 
SIBs internet banking service. But his attempt was unsuccessful.
Mr S contacted SIB on the same day to report the payment problem. He was told that a 
service called OTP had been disabled. SBI said they would address this as quickly as 
possible. Despite regularly calling SIB back, his internet banking payment problem wasnt 
resolved. So, Mr S raised a complaint. He explained that the payment purpose was urgent 
and needed resolving quickly.
Mr Ss problem was resolved on 2 January 2021. So, he used SBIs internet banking to set 
up three transfers from his account to his bank account elsewhere. These were to be 
processed on 4, 5 and 6 January 2021. But, when he checked on 4 January 2021, he 
noticed that the scheduled payment hadnt been received in his other bank account. Mr S 
contacted SBI and was told the payment would be completed that day, but it wasnt.
So, Mr S contacted SIB the following day to raise another complaint. He explained the 
circumstances, but the payment still wasnt successful. Mrs S said he was promised various 
call backs, but these werent received. He continued to check his account, but the payment 
wasnt completed.
Mr S called SBI again on 6 January 2021, but he still wasnt able to resolve the issue. He 
also said that various promised calls to him were again not received. So, he decided to 
contact this service for help with his problem.
SBIs complaint team contacted Mr S on 7 January 2021. They agreed to accept payment 
instructions from Mr S by email so that they could manually process his payments. SBI 
received Mr Ss email instructions on 8 January 2021 and payments were completed. 
SBI wrote to Mr S on 11 January 2021. They said that the payments requested online by Mr 
S on 2 January 2021 had failed due to a system problem. They apologised for the service 
hed received. But Mr S wasnt happy with their response. He emailed SBI on 16 January 
2021 and wanted them to compensate him for costs he said hed incurred. 
SBI spoke with Mr S and then emailed him on 19 March 2021. They made an offer of £75 as 
compensation. But Mr S remained unhappy with this amount. So, SBI increased their 
compensation offer to £200. Mr S was still unhappy, so he asked this service to consider his 
complaint for him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think that SBI needed to do 
anything more than theyd done already. She also thought that SBIs compensation offer was 
fair in these circumstances. Mr S disagreed so his complaint has been referred to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From information provided by SBI, it appears that Mr Ss initial problem with their internet 
banking service related to the expiry of his One Time Password (OTP). This is a password 
that needs to be used to access their service and make payments. SBI have explained that 
the OTP expires in the event that Mr S doesnt use their online banking service for 90 days. 
This is what had happened in Mr Ss case.
SBI said they told Mr S that it may take up to 24 hours to reset his account. But, given the 
urgency of the situation, they would request the reset as a high priority. They suggested that 
he try to logon again in two hours to see if it had been reset. Unfortunately, Mr S wasnt able 
to access the service until 2 January 2021. SBI explained this was due to the holiday season 
and resulting staff shortages. I can understand why this would delay matters. But clearly this 
didnt help Mr Ss situation. So, I think SBI needed to reflect this in their complaint resolution.
The problems that then followed relate to a separate problem. Although Mr S successfully 
set up the payments for 4, 5 and 6 January, they werent processed. SBI initially asked Mr S 
to check his account again on 5 January after the first payment wasnt completed. This is 
because payments can sometimes take up to 24 hours to be processed. At this stage, it 
appears SBI werent aware of a wider problem. Unfortunately, the payments werent 
completed.  
SBI have explained the problems were due to an internal system issue. But at the time, they 
didnt have an immediate resolution. I can completely understand why this would frustrate Mr 
S. Particularly given his earlier problem. SBI have provided copies of their internal notes and 
communications. I can see that every attempt was being made to resolve their system 
problems as quickly as possible. It also appears they were aware of the urgency surrounding 
Mr Ss own payments. 
Mr S has suggested that, on occasions, SBI staff were either unhelpful or didnt call him 
when promised. Ive not seen anything that leads me to that conclusion. The information 
provided by SBI suggests they were trying to help Mr S. Im aware they tried to call him on 
occasions without success. Their notes also show that on one occasion, Mr S said he wasnt 
able to take their call. He said hed call them back if he needed to.
Having failed to immediately resolve their system problems, SBI agreed an alternative 
solution to ensure that Mr Ss payments could be successfully completed. They agreed that 
Mr S could email details of the payments to them. Mr S provided that information on 8 
January and the payments were successfully completed. This was not SBIs normal process, 
but they showed flexibility here recognising the urgency of Mr Ss situation. So, accepting 
there had been some frustrating delays for Mr S, I believe that SBI ultimately presented a 
workable solution as quickly as they could in the circumstances here.
SBI also agreed to compensate Mr S to reflect the inconvenience he experienced as a result 
of their IT system problems. Initially they offered £75, but this was then increased to £200 
when Mr S explained about subsequent costs hed incurred. Mr S remains unhappy with the 
amount offered. He explained that the funds had been sent to him by a third party. Due to 
the urgency of the transaction, the third party had incurred additional costs. But, due to SBIs 
system problems, Mr Ss payments to his other bank account were still delayed. He believes 
that SBI should reflect the additional costs incurred by the third party in sending the payment 
to him.
I realise that Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont agree with him on this point. The third 
partys costs were incurred before the problems experienced with SBI. They werent incurred 
as a result of anything that SBI did here. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask them to meet those 
costs. They wouldve been incurred anyway.Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. In Mr Ss case, I feel that the amount offered by SBI is fair given 
the circumstances. He did experience some inconvenience, but I can see that SBI made 
attempts to put things right within a reasonable timescale. So, in this case, I shant be asking 
SBI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman