DRN-3190957
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland) wont refund 
the money he lost when he was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
In December 2020, Mr C has said that he received a call from somebody claiming to be from 
Bank of Scotland. Hes said the caller took him through verification and then asked him if he 
recognised some transactions on his account. Mr C told the caller he didnt recognise them 
and was told that, in order to keep his money safe, his account would need to be closed and 
he would need to move his money to another account. Mr C has told us that hed previously 
been the victim of fraud, and so thought this might have happened again.
Mr C told Bank of Scotland that it was an 0800 number that had called him, but that he 
hadnt verified the number. He later went on to tell our service that the caller had asked him 
to check the number, he was being called from, was the same as on the back of his Bank of 
Scotland card. 
Unknown to Mr C at the time he was speaking to a fraudster. But believing everything to be 
genuine and thinking his money was at risk, Mr C went ahead and made the following 
payments, totalling £926.45, from his Bank of Scotland accounts, to account details that the 
fraudster provided;
8 December 2020  @ 14:06 £550.00 (from savings account)
8 December 2020   @ 14:07 £ 94.08  (from savings account)
8 December 2020   @ 14:09 £182.37 (from current account)
11 December 2020 £100.00 (from current account)
The fraudster told Mr C that an appointment had been arranged for him to visit his local 
branch on 12 December 2021. When he attended the branch as arranged, it became 
apparent that there was no appointment, and the scam came to light.
Mr C raised the matter with Bank of Scotland. Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment scams like 
this, except in limited circumstances. Bank of Scotland investigated Mr Cs complaint and 
issued its final response in February 2021, not upholding the complaint as it said one or 
more of the exceptions applied.
In summary, it said Mr C had made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing 
they were genuine and that he had ignored effective warnings at the time the payments were 
made, so he wasnt entitled to a refund under the CRM code.
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response Mr C brought his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at Mr Cs complaint and thought the complaint should be upheld.  
In summary, this was because they didnt think Bank of Scotland had established that Mr C 
had ignored an effective warning, or made the transfer without a reasonable basis for 
believing it was legitimate. So she felt Mr C was entitled to a full refund under the CRM code 
and the Bank of Scotland should refund him the money he lost, along with interest.
Bank of Scotland didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary, it maintained that 
Mr C didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payments. It added that 
hed ignored warnings about this type of scam, and a warning that the payee name and 
account details didnt match.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that: 
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Bank of Scotland should have refunded Mr C the 
full amount he lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably now refund Mr C 
the money he has lost. 
I have carefully considered Bank of Scotlands representations about the warnings it gave 
and whether Mr C had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But 
they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr C 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for Bank of Scotland to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why;
Effective Warnings
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams.
 
Bank of Scotland has provided a copy of the warning it said it presented to Mr C, before he 
made the first payment to the fraudster;
did you know?
-Well never call to ask you to move your money to another account.
-if you buy something online, pay by card.
-Before you pay an invoice, double-check the account number, sort code and name.
Mr C has said that he does not recall seeing the warning and that he was following the 
instructions of the fraudster, who was telling him what options to select.
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey.But I dont find the warning given by Bank of Scotland meets the definition of an effective 
warning. The warning that was presented doesnt meet all those requirements. For one, it 
doesnt make it clear that any money sent as a result of a scam would be lost and likely 
irrecoverable. And while I appreciate that the warning Bank of Scotland gave here was, in 
part, relevant to the type of scam Mr C fell victim to, in that it does mention that it would 
never ask a customer to move money to another account, it does so in amongst other 
potential types of scam and is not specific to the circumstances Mr C found himself in. I dont 
think this wording is specific enough about what the scam would look or sound like, to make 
it clear to Mr C that this was the type of scam he could be falling victim to. It doesnt mention 
the caller saying the account is at risk of fraud or the need to move money to a safe account.
Bank of Scotland has also highlighted that it presented Mr C with a Confirmation of Payee 
(CoP) warning indicating that the name of the account he was paying didnt match. I think it 
is important to distinguish an effective warning and negative CoP results under the CRM 
Code. Effective warnings are intended specifically to address the risk of, and enable 
customers to protect themselves from, APP scams. As Ive explained above, an effective 
warning must, as a minimum, meet the definition under the Code  that is to be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. Messages accompanying negative CoP 
results, though sometimes mentioning the possibility of fraud (although from looking at the 
message Bank of Scotland presented this didnt mention fraud) are primarily intended to 
warn customers that payment details do not match (as was the case here) so as to warn 
customers about the risk of misdirecting a payment.
Overall, while I acknowledge Bank of Scotland provided a warning (albeit I have already 
explained why I dont find this to have been an effective warning) and a negative CoP result 
within the same payment journey, I dont find the two together to be sufficient to amount to 
an effective warning in this particular case.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief? 
I have also carefully thought about Bank of Scotlands representations about whether Mr C 
had a reasonable basis for belief. Overall they do not persuade me to reach a different view. 
I say that because;
- Mr C had previously fallen victim to card fraud and where the fraudster, here, told him 
that his card would be cancelled Mr C, albeit maybe incorrectly, likened the scenario 
the fraudsters portrayed, to something he had previously experienced. So, I think it is 
understandable and not unreasonable why he may have thought what was 
happening seemed plausible, given it was consistent with his recollections of a 
genuine conversation hed had with his bank previously about a fraud matter.
- It follows, that I think it reasonable that he could have considered his bank would 
genuinely want to discuss matters with him if his accounts were at risk. 
- Bank of Scotland has said that when Mr C had been the victim of fraud before it had 
educated him about the risks of fraud. But I note from the information that Bank of 
Scotland has provided that at the time, the education it gave did not cover the 
possibility of fraudsters impersonating a customers bank.
- I dont think Bank of Scotland has given enough consideration to the fact the 
fraudster had created an environment where Mr C thought he had to act quickly to 
protect his accounts from an attack. With the benefit of hindsight and the removal of 
the pressured environment, its easier to identify elements where Mr C may have had 
an opportunity to ask further questions. But the convincing nature of these scams can 
often have a negative effect on a persons thought process and make them take 
steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise take.  Especially in the absence of a warning around how these scams typically feel and play out.
- Im also mindful that Mr C was being coached by the fraudster and was following 
their instructions. I think this would reasonably have given some credibility to the 
fraudster being knowledgeable of the bank payments systems and coupled with Mr C 
being put under time pressure, to make a payment to protect his money, I think its 
understandable that he acted in the way he did. 
Given the specific circumstances of this case I do think it is finely balanced, but overall Im 
not persuaded Bank of Scotland has established Mr C didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief that he was making legitimate payments. It follows that Im not persuaded the 
exception for reasonable basis for belief applies to the payments Mr C made and that Bank 
of Scotland can choose not to reimburse Mr C.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland should now; 
- Refund Mr C the money he lost, being £926.45.
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount that was transferred to the 
fraudster from Mr Cs current account, from the date it declined Mr Cs claim under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
- Pay interest at the savings account rate, on the amount that was transferred to the 
fraudster from Mr Cs savings account, from the date it declined Mr Cs claim under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman