DRN-4151776
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) failed to respond to a 
plumbing emergency at his home. 
What happened
On 28 December 2023, Mr C discovered a leak in the upstairs airing cupboard of his 
property, caused by a constant drip from the hot water outlet pipe. He called HDI twice, each 
time waiting over an hour for his call to be answered. He was assured that an emergency 
plumber would be sent to the property. But, after a further call to HDIs agent, following a    
46-minute wait, he was told it would be the next day before someone was sent. So, Mr C 
sourced his own plumber who arrived within 20 minutes and turned off the water supply and 
made it safe. Mr C said it was difficult to communicate the level of stress hed encountered in 
trying to sort the very serious plumbing leak out himself, and the thought of what could have 
happened caused him significant anxiety.
Mr C complained to HDI who responded on 1 February 2023, partially upholding his 
complaint. HDI explained that the extreme weather conditions lasting over several days 
during the period in which the leak occurred meant it took much longer for the call handlers 
to answer calls than it would hope for. Also, given the high demand on plumbers and 
engineers caused by the extreme weather, HDI wasnt always able to send an engineer out 
to all of the emergencies as they were fully booked during that time.
To apologise for letting Mr C down, HDI reimbursed the costs he had incurred in having the 
work carried out. The complaint handler also offered Mr C £25 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience he was caused. Unhappy with its response, Mr C referred the complaint 
to this service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. He explained that the policy terms and conditions did indicate that normal 
standards of service may be affected by adverse weather conditions. He also said that on 
the call Mr C made following discovery of the leak on 28 December 2023, he was told he 
could source his own engineer and that would be reimbursed  which Mr C confirmed had 
happened. Finally, as this service could only consider the impact of what occurred, not what 
might have occurred, the offer of £25 compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision on the 
complaint. He said his main complaint was about the substandard service hed received after 
paying for an insurance policy advertised as a 24 hour call out service, which was mis-
leading. He said the weather conditions at the time were not adverse, it was a normal winter 
evening and the roads were safe and clear. He also questioned the use of a home 
emergency policy where the insurer cant supply an engineer, and only says find one 
yourself and claim the costs. Mr C says the reason he took the policy out was to guarantee 
he could get an engineer or plumber to come out after hours as they are difficult to find 
locally, outside of working hours.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has said hes unhappy with the cover provided by the policy because he believed he 
would have access to assistance over a 24-hour period. Hed also understood that, in 
response to an out of hours call out, the policy guaranteed a plumber would be sent. His 
experience didnt reflect that. 
Having considered the policy terms and conditions, on the second page, under the heading 
What is Home Emergency Cover? it does say: Cover is provided 24 hours a day, 365 days 
a year...
However, under the heading Claims Procedure it says: We will record your details and then 
decide on the best course of action to mitigate your loss &/or repair the damage. If the 
incident relates to an emergency covered under your policy we will instruct a member of our 
emergency contractor network. Please note that adverse weather conditions and remote 
locations may affect normal standards of service. 
On page 4, under the heading: Your policy cover it says: Following an Insured Event 
resulting from a Home Emergency the Insurer will pay Costs & Expenses up to the Limit of 
Indemnity, subject to all the following requirements being met
I understand that it was stressful and inconvenient for Mr C to have to find a plumber to carry 
out the work necessary to stop the leak. I also appreciate the frustration he was caused by 
having to wait on the phone for extended periods of time, to speak to HDI.
But, before I can award any compensation for that inconvenience and stress, I need to be 
satisfied that it was due to the actions or inaction of HDI. Mr C was understandably 
disappointed that the policy hed taken out, didnt provide the benefit of sending a local 
plumber to his property within 24 hours of a call being made. However, the policy terms and 
conditions dont guarantee that a contractor will be sent within 24 hours.  Although HDI will 
seek to respond to a call out as soon as possible, the policy terms provide two examples of 
when that might not be possible, for example where adverse weather conditions have led to 
an increased demand, or where the insured lives at a remote location. While Mr C disputes 
there were adverse weather conditions, he did explain that one of the reasons for taking out 
the policy was that he lives in a location where its difficult to source plumbers locally.
When a contractor isnt able to be sent to respond to the emergency, the policy provides an 
alternative benefit, i.e. that the costs and expenses incurred by the insured party, can be met 
up to the policy limit. And that is what happened here. So, while Mr C didnt receive his 
preferred benefit under the policy, of being provided with emergency assistance by a 
contractor, he did receive the alternative benefit of having the costs he incurred in sourcing 
his own plumber paid by HDI. Taking everything into account, I think HDI provided a 
reasonable explanation for why it wasnt able to send Mr C a contractor. 
I also note that HDI confirmed to Mr C, during the notification of emergency call, that he 
could source his own plumber and HDI would reimburse him for the cost, which Mr C did. 
And while I appreciate his frustration of having to wait on the phone for extended periods to 
speak to HDI, given the wider context of an unusually high level of calls, I think HDIs offer of 
compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. So, taking everything into account, on 
the basis that those costs have been reimbursed, and in view of Mr C being informed of how 
his call-out would be handled, during the initial call, I think HDIs offer of £25 compensation is 
fair in the circumstances. Im therefore not going to ask HDI to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given in this decision, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman