DRN-1442123
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited has handled his claim 
under a motor insurance policy. He is unhappy with the delays experienced, the overall 
handling, and that Admiral agreed a 50/50 liability settlement with the third-party insurer 
without notifying him.
What happened
Mr Rs car was insured with Admiral under a multi-car policy. In December 2017, he was 
involved in an accident with another vehicle. Mr R believed the third party to have been 
under the influence at the time and he reported the third-party had been swerving into and 
out of their lane. And in the process of the vehicles changing lanes, they collided.    
Admiral progressed the claim, initially holding the third-party liable for the accident. And it 
notified the third-party insurer of that. It was several months before the third-party insurer 
replied, not agreeing liability. It suggested a 50/50 settlement. It appears Admiral agreed this 
as it didnt think it would be able to defend the matter in court  although it later retracted its 
agreement. Mr R wasnt happy with this decision, that he wasnt told about it and how the 
claim had been handled generally, with numerous delays, changes in case handler and that 
this would have an impact in the future on premiums and the liability outcome. And so he 
complained.
Admiral upheld part of Mr Rs complaint. It agreed there had been delays and that its 
communication wasnt how it should have been. But it was satisfied that a new investigator 
had tried contacting him, that it was entitled to decide about settlement under the terms of 
the policy and that it couldnt be known if its agreement to settle (later retracted) would affect 
his position going forward. Admiral offered Mr R £170 for its failings in the service it 
provided. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He was satisfied that Admiral was entitled to 
settle the claim as per the terms of the policy. However, he didnt think £170 was a fair 
reflection of the impact for the delays and failings in the way the claim had been handled. He 
therefore asked Admiral to increase compensation to £350. 
Admiral said it would pay the amount once Mr R had accepted it. But Mr R didnt think it was 
fair and said there had been financial implications for him because of the delay  this 
included an increase in the insurance premium, which meant he was unable to afford his 
repayments on his car finance agreement. He has provided evidence to show the increase in 
insurance premium and the request for the return of the car. He also didnt think the 
compensation amount was sufficient. 
The investigator explained his concerns about the increase in premium and having to return 
his case werent matters we could consider within this complaint as Admiral needed a 
chance to consider them first. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both Mr R and Admiral that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided in its 
entirety. And like the investigator, I wont be considering each issue separately but the main 
areas of Mr Rs concerns  the crux of his complaint. 
I am only considering those areas of concern that Mr R referred to us following Admirals 
final response of 11 July 2019. I know Mr R continues to have concerns which are being 
looked into separately. 
Liability
Mr R is unhappy that Admiral agreed a 50/50 liability settlement without involving him in the 
discussion or decision about that. 
It isnt my role to determine who was actually liable for the accident at the heart of this 
dispute; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding is whether Admiral has 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy whether it has dealt with the 
claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Mr R and Admiral  the policy terms and 
conditions. These include a provision which entitles Admiral to take over and deal with the 
claim, including agreeing settlement of it. Similar provisions are found in all motor insurance 
policies Ive seen, and I dont find it unusual or surprising. 
So under the terms of the policy Admiral can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. 
That might mean it makes a decision Mr R disagrees with, as has happened here. But the 
terms and conditions of the policy allow Admiral to make such a decision. 
I know Mr R feels very strongly that he wasnt fault for the accident. However, both parties 
involved in the accident have provided statements that indicate the other party was at fault. 
And I understand there is no independent witness statement to support either party. Mr R 
has referred to Admiral obtaining CCTV footage. Its my understanding that CCTV footage is 
usually only kept for 28 days. The accident happened just before Christmas. And Admirals 
notes show it was trying to obtain pictures of the damage and further information from Mr R 
about the accident, but these werent provided until February 2018 and it was then that Mr R 
indicated the possibility of CCTV being available. By this time any CCTV footage was likely 
deleted, although it would have been good practice for it to be requested. 
Admiral had contradictory statements statement from Mr R and the third-party driver about 
what happened as the only evidence on which to base a decision about whether to accept 
the 50/50 settlement offered. Admiral will have experience of how courts view such matters, 
and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. In the absence of any independent 
witness testimony of the actual accident, Im not persuaded it was acting unfairly when 
taking account of both statements and initially deciding to settle on a 50/50 basis. In any 
event, I understand this was later retracted. 
Mr R is unhappy that the agreement to settle on a 50/50 wasnt discussed with him first, and 
he is worried this might impact on any liability assessment going forward. As explained 
above, the terms allow Admiral to settle a claim. Admiral is generally the party that has to 
pay if settlement is agreed and strictly speaking there is no requirement either in the policy, 
or more generally, for that to be discussed with the policy holder. However, I do consider it 
would have been good practice for it to have done so. And I have taken account of this 
below.  Whether or not any decision it made previously and later retracted, has any bearing on a 
future assessment of liability remains to be seen. As such this issue, as explained by the 
investigator, is speculative and Im not persuaded its fair to make any award for losses or 
impact that havent been, or might not be, experienced. 
Communication and claim handling
Mr R has complained about the delays in the claim being progressed, not being kept up to 
date, and it being recorded that he was uncooperative when that wasnt correct. Admiral 
agrees that the service he has received hasnt been up to the standard he could reasonably 
expect. 
I also agree, the records show there were a number of opportunities for Admiral to progress 
matters when it didnt. I can fully appreciate and understand why Mr R is worried this might 
have an impact going forward, particularly as memories fade over time. But I have also 
borne in mind there were times when Admiral was waiting for Mr R to get in touch. 
Overall, Admiral could have progressed matters far sooner than it did. There were occasions 
when the claim wasnt progressed for weeks at a time and changes between claim handlers 
didnt go smoothly. Its right that Mr R is compensated for the impact that had and the 
inconvenience caused. I agree with our investigator that £170 doesnt really reflect the 
additional time and trouble Mr R has been put to. This claim has been ongoing for a 
considerable amount of time, and there were times when Admiral ought to have been 
involving Mr R and it didnt. I think £350 is more reflective of the inconvenience this has 
caused Mr R. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance Company Limited. 
I require it to pay Mr R £350 in total  inclusive of the £170 already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman