DRN-3542715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the amount Yorkshire Building Society increased their 
contractual monthly payment by following a payment holiday.
 
What happened
On 6 September 2005, Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society 
(YBS). The mortgage had four parts and was for a total borrowing of £184,659 (including 
fees).
On 21 September 2005, Mr and Mrs M wrote to YBS enclosing a cheque for the sum of 
£14,400. They asked for this amount to be used to repay the majority of Part 3 of their 
mortgage. YBS applied this payment to the mortgage as requested, giving Part 3 of the 
mortgage a credit balance.  
A further advance of £25,000 was later arranged for Mr and Mrs M with YBS releasing the 
funds in November 2005  giving the mortgage five parts. 
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M requested a payment holiday on their mortgage for a period of ten 
months  running from October 2009 until July 2010  and YBS agreed to the request. It 
wrote to Mr and Mrs M at the time explaining that the overall mortgage balance would 
increase, and that interest is charged on the amount outstanding on a daily basis. 
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted YBS to request a further payment holiday due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. The letters sent to Mr and Mrs M indicate a two-month payment holiday 
was agreed for April and May 2020 which was later extended for a further three months from 
June 2020. However, the contact notes and arrears schedule indicate a payment holiday of 
six months was agreed from March 2020 until August 2020.
At the end of the first Covid-19 payment holiday, YBS wrote to Mr and Mrs M on 
31 May 2020 to inform them their contractual monthly payment would be increasing by 
£316.06. On 30 July 2020, YBS sent a further letter explaining that the information in its 
previous letter had been incorrect as the new monthly payment hadnt included Mortgage 
Protection Insurance  it clarified that the new monthly payment would be £1,733.38. 
Following the end of the second Covid-19 payment holiday, YBS wrote to Mr and Mrs M 
again explaining the new monthly payment would be £1,798.10. It sent a further letter on 
11 September 2020 explaining the payment would actually be £1,832.45. Concerned about 
the high increase to their monthly payment Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint. 
YBS responded explaining that due to an administration error, the capital repayment of 
£14,400 made in 2005, hadnt been apportioned to the mortgage correctly, resulting in 
Mr and Mrs Ms monthly payments being calculated at an incorrect lower amount. It 
explained this error had been highlighted following the recent Covid-19 payment holiday, and 
therefore the monthly payment had increased by approximately £300 to allow for the 
mortgage to be repaid in full by the end of the remaining term. In recognition of this it offered 
Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation. 
Our Investigators considered the complaint and didnt think YBS had acted fairly. They 
explained that both parties agreed an error had occurred when calculating Mr and Mrs Ms 
monthly mortgage payment and this had resulted in the mortgage account being 
underfunded. 
In resolution of the complaint the Investigator said YBS should deduct any underfunding that 
accrued on the mortgage account before May 2013  as the monthly payments during this 
time had been met. However, as Mr and Mrs M had struggled to meet their monthly 
payments from May 2013 and arrears had accrued on the account, they should be required 
to repay the arrears balance going forward. The investigator also felt the £500 compensation 
offered was fair in the circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They raised several 
different points for why they disagreed. In summary, they didnt think they should be held 
responsible for any underfunding on the account and felt their monthly payment going 
forward should be for the amount before any underfunding occurred, plus the amount of the 
recent Covid-19 payment holiday. They also felt the £500 offered wasnt fair.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 29 April 2022 where I said:
Mr and Mrs M have kindly provided a significant amount of evidence to support their 
complaint and have raised several different points about why they think YBS have treated 
them unfairly. Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point made by either 
Mr and Mrs M or YBS. I mean no discourtesy by this and I would like to reassure both 
parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. But my decision will only 
address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. 
In September 2005, Mr and Mrs M made an overpayment of £14,400 towards their 
mortgage. Ive seen a copy of the letter they sent to YBS and this clearly explains that their 
mortgage consisted of four parts and they wanted the payment to be allocated to Part 3 
which had an approximate outstanding balance of £14,600, at a rate of 6.09%. 
YBS has provided evidence to show the payment of £14,400 was allocated to Part 3 of the 
mortgage as requested  and having reviewed this Im satisfied it was. As YBS were 
following the instructions of Mr and Mrs M, I dont think they have done anything wrong by 
applying the payment as they did. 
In September 2009, Mr and Mrs M requested a payment holiday on their mortgage. YBS has 
said that when Mr and Mrs M contacted it about this payment holiday, they were told they 
could utilise the credit on the account (the £14,400 overpayment) and therefore it agreed to 
the payment holiday for a period of ten months. 
YBS has acknowledged that the information given to Mr and Mrs M when they requested the 
payment holiday was incorrect. At the point Mr and Mrs M requested the payment holiday in 
2009, they had five parts to their mortgage. However, only Part 3 had a credit balance as 
this is where the overpayment of £14,400 had been allocated  something which YBS has 
acknowledged its system didnt identify at the time. YBS has said that it should have made 
Mr and Mrs M aware of this when they requested the payment holiday, and if it had done so, 
Mr and Mrs M would have been provided with the options of either taking a payment holiday 
on only Part 3 of the mortgage, or to have the overpayment spread across all parts of the 
mortgage to enable the payment holiday on all five parts. As YBS didnt identify that only Part 3 of the mortgage had a credit balance, it resulted in the 
other four parts of the mortgage falling into arrears. The reason for this is because only 
Part 3 of the mortgage was utilising the credit balance. However, it should be noted that at 
this point the mortgage as a whole wasnt in arrears due to the credit balance  which is 
evidenced by the arrears schedule Ive been provided with. 
YBS has explained that its policy is for arrears to be stripped out from the calculation of the 
monthly mortgage payments, as it is expected that a separate arrangement will be agreed 
with its Mortgage Collections and Recoveries team to clear the arrears within a specified 
timeframe. This meant the arrears, caused by the credit balance not being utilised by all five 
parts of the mortgage, were excluded from the outstanding balance for the calculation of the 
monthly mortgage payments  which resulted in Mr and Mrs M paying less to the mortgage 
than they should have been, in other words underfunding the mortgage. 
YBS didnt identify the issue with its system until after Mr and Mrs Ms Covid-19 payment 
holiday finished in August 2020, and the monthly payments were recalculated to take into 
account the missed payments because of the payment holiday. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs M should have been aware that their monthly payment was incorrect before 
YBS identified the problem  and from the information Ive been provided with they have, 
excluding times of arrears due to struggling to meet payments, paid the amount which was 
requested of them from YBS.
Mr and Mrs M now find themselves in a position where their monthly payments have 
increased to account for both the Covid-19 payment holiday and the underfunding  
something which they say they cant easily afford. 
Where an error such as this has occurred  and where I dont think the customer should 
reasonably have known they werent paying enough, as is the case here  I would generally 
expect the business to put the customer back in the position they would have been in if the 
mistake hadnt happened. So, in this case, as if underfunding hadnt occurred. 
However, I also need to take into consideration the individual circumstances of the complaint 
before recommending YBS rework the entire account to remove any underfunding as 
Mr and Mrs M have requested. The underfunding issue with Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
account only occurred following the October 2009 payment holiday. Therefore, I will only be 
considering any underfunding from this date forward and for ease I will explain my reasoning 
under separate headings to address each milestone of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage history. 
October 2009 payment holiday until April 2013
In order to consider any potential underfunding, I need to consider what payments 
Mr and Mrs M actually made, against what payments they should have made if the mortgage 
had operated as it should have. 
With this in mind, if YBS had explained the options of the credit balance to Mr and Mrs M 
before the payment holiday was agreed in October 2009, I think it likely that they would have 
decided to have it proportioned over all five sub accounts, as I think they would have wanted 
to avoid arrears on the mortgage account. Therefore, any calculations for the payments 
Mr and Mrs M should have made need to take this into account. 
YBS has provided a set of calculations for consideration. These calculations have been 
carried out under the assumption that the appropriate amount of credit would have been 
moved to each part of the mortgage to accommodate the payment holiday agreed in October 2009. And then calculate what Mr and Mrs Ms monthly mortgage payment should 
have been, taking into account the interest rates applied to each part of the mortgage, if no 
error occurred  allowing for any underfunding to be identified. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M have raised concerns about the calculations being handwritten 
but I see no reason to think they are inaccurate. As part of its submission, YBS have 
provided various ledgers (detailing balances and interest rates applied at the time) and 
screen shots of the account at specific times to support the calculations. And having 
reviewed the calculations they show what I would expect to see if they had been generated 
solely by its system. However, if Mr and Mrs M accept my decision, I would ask that YBS 
provide system generated calculations to Mr and Mrs M to satisfy any accuracy concerns 
they may have when finalising the settlement. 
I think it should also be noted that our service is informal and decides complaints on a fair 
and reasonable basis. We are not auditors or forensic accountants. If Mr and Mrs M would 
like for their account to be fully audited at a professional level, they may wish to seek advice 
about employing a suitably qualified professional. 
Following the end of the October 2009 payment holiday in July 2010, I can see from the 
payment schedule that Mr and Mrs M maintained all agreed monthly payments until 
April 2013  at times utilising some remaining credit and also making two agreed interest 
only payments in November 2011 and February 2012.
YBS has said for the purpose of its calculations it has assumed that if the monthly payments 
were correctly calculated, Mr and Mrs M would have paid the higher payments between 
August 2010 and April 2013. I think this is a fair assumption to make as Mr and Mrs M 
maintained all the requested payments during this time and Ive seen no indication that they 
would have had difficulties paying the higher payments. 
YBS calculated the underfunding for the account between August 2010 and April 2013 as 
£2,762.03. This should be paid to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage to reduce the outstanding 
balance, putting them back in the position they would have been in if underfunding hadnt 
occurred between these dates. 
May 2013 until February 2020
YBS has said that from May 2013 until February 2020, before the Covid-19 payment holiday 
was put in place, Mr and Mrs M struggled to meet the lower (underfunding) monthly 
payments to their mortgage. Therefore, they say that its unlikely theyd have been able to 
meet the higher monthly payments if underfunding hadnt occurred and these should be 
included in the arrears.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms account history between May 2013 and February 2020. Ive 
also reviewed the contact notes for this period as well. Its clear that Mr and Mrs M were 
experiencing financial difficulties with problems relating to cashflow and other debts. This 
resulted in payments towards the mortgage becoming sporadic or being missed entirely, 
resulting in arrears. Therefore, I agree with YBS and think that Mr and Mrs M would have 
been unlikely to meet the higher monthly payments. However, I dont think its fair that YBS 
now treat the whole period from May 2013 until February 2020 as having no underfunding 
when calculating the impact to Mr and Mrs M. Ill explain why. 
In the months where Mr and Mrs M have either missed their monthly payment or paid less 
than what was requested, they have currently benefited as their arrears balance hasnt 
increased by as much as it should have done. This is because the arrears balance has only 
increased by the lower (underfunding) monthly payment and not the higher (correct) monthly payment. For these payments I dont think its unreasonable that YBS recalculate them as 
being processed at the higher monthly payment, as I think Mr and Mrs M would always have 
missed these payments no matter whether or not underfunding occurred. I should be clear 
that there are 35 payments in this category and by YBS recalculating these missed 
payments, it would increase Mr and Mrs Ms arrears balance to the level it should have 
been. 
However, in the other months Mr and Mrs M have either paid what was requested of them 
(the lower underfunding payments) or paid more than what was requested. In these months I 
think Mr and Mrs M would have likely paid the equivalent required payment, based off the 
higher payment, if they had been informed of the correct monthly payment from the outset. I 
say this because its clear that Mr and Mrs M were trying to address the arrears on the 
account. Therefore, for these payments, of which there are 47, underfunding has occurred 
and the amount of underfunding needs to be calculated and deducted from the outstanding 
mortgage balance. 
I have attached a document with a table outlining the payments which should be treated as 
underfunding for the period from May 2013 until February 2020.
Once the calculations and necessary amendments outlined above have been made to the 
account, YBS should calculate what Mr and Mrs Ms monthly payment would have been 
from March 2020 onwards. 
March 2020 onwards
The letters Mr and Mrs M received about their Covid-19 payment holiday indicate that it was 
agreed from April 2020 until August 2020. However, the contact notes from 27 March 2020 
and the calculations YBS have sent indicate that a six-month payment holiday was agreed  
running from between March 2020 until August 2020. This is further supported by the arrears 
schedule which shows six-months worth of arrears being capitalised during the Covid-19 
payment holiday. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on Covid-19 payment holidays, is that it 
could be put in place for a maximum of six months. Based on the evidence outlined above 
Im satisfied that YBS agreed to the maximum six-month payment holiday from March 2020 
until August 2020. Therefore, following the calculations outlined above, YBS must use the 
new March 2020 monthly payment in its Covid-19 payment holiday calculations and it must 
adhere to all the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) with regards to 
the Covid-19 payment holiday when reworking the account. 
YBS should then calculate what Mr and Mrs Ms monthly payment should have been in 
September 2020, following the end of the Covid-19 payment holiday, and recalculate the 
mortgage taking into account the payments Mr and Mrs M have made since the payment 
holiday. 
If the account remains in arrears, I think it only fair that Mr and Mrs M be responsible for 
these. I say this because their mortgage account would have been reworked to represent the 
position it should have been in but for the errors that YBS made. So, any arrears would be 
due to payments having been missed by Mr and Mrs M. 
YBS should also make any necessary amendments, if any, to Mr and Mrs Ms credit file to 
ensure that it accurately reflects the conduct of the mortgage account following the rework of 
it.  YBS has offered £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
errors which it made. I understand that Mr and Mrs M feel that more compensation should be 
awarded. Theyve said that since the £500 was offered they have been forced to bring the 
complaint to our service and have had continued mental pressure and stress. I appreciate 
the points Mr and Mrs M have raised but I wouldnt award compensation for needing to bring 
a complaint to our service. I think the £500 offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, as I think it recognises the upset that Mr and Mrs M would 
have been caused by finding out they hadnt been paying the correct amount to their 
mortgage.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have also raised concerns with regards to their high interest 
rate compared to market rates. To be clear, I havent considered this as part of this 
complaint as Mr and Mrs M wanted to keep the issue separate. However, they may still be 
able to raise this issue with our service and if this is something they wish to do, they can 
contact us to discuss it.
YBS responded accepting my provisional decision. However, it said it would be unable to 
provide system generated calculations. It said the calculations are bespoke and the data 
used doesnt exist within its system.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree to my provisional decision and provided a detailed submission 
outlining their reasons why. As with my provisional decision, I wont detail every point 
Mr and Mrs M included in their submission, but I have summarised below the points which I 
consider are relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say they asked for their overpayment to be against Part 3 of their mortgage in 
2005 because it had the highest interest rate. They question how paying £14,400 off the part 
of their mortgage with the highest interest rate, and then borrowing it back across the other 
parts of their mortgage with lower interest rates, can equate to them owing £18,000 at the 
end of the mortgage term. With this in mind they question where the £14,400 credit for Part 3 
of their mortgage is  and where the interest they would have accrued is, if this sum had 
been put in a savings account. 
They say when they raised concerns about the increase to their contractual monthly 
payment, YBS raised a complaint on their behalf. Mr and Mrs M say YBS admitted they 
could request the overpayment only be applied to one part of their mortgage, but say they 
were told by the advisor that when the overpayment was made in 2005 it should have been 
allocated across all parts of the mortgage at the time. They say the advisor confirmed YBS 
would never insist they pay the new contractual monthly payments as it was clearly unfair  
and that if there was an error, YBS would mitigate the payments required by extending the 
term or reducing the amount owed. 
Mr and Mrs M disputed why the missed payments between May 2013 until February 2020 
should be calculated at the higher monthly payment  as if underfunding hadnt occurred  
when they were unaware of the problem with the payments being made. They also raised 
concerns over how the underfunding would be calculated in this timeframe, and whether it 
would be based on the quantity of payment or the contractual monthly payment. 
Mr and Mrs M also didnt think the £500 compensation offered for the upset caused was 
enough in the circumstances of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In my provisional decision, I explained that Mr and Mrs M had made an overpayment of 
£14,400 to Part 3 of their mortgage - with the highest interest rate of 6.09% - in September 
2005. Having reviewed the available evidence, Im satisfied the overpayment of £14,400 was 
made to Part 3 of the account and that YBS followed Mr and Mrs Ms instructions by 
applying the payment as it did. 
In September 2009, Mr and Mrs M requested a payment holiday on the entirety of their 
mortgage. YBS has said that at this point Mr and Mrs M were incorrectly told they could 
utilise the credit on the account (the £14,400 overpayment) for the whole mortgage and 
therefore it agreed to the payment holiday for a period of ten months. 
When Mr and Mrs M contacted YBS for the payment holiday in September 2009, it should 
have provided them with two options. Either that they could only take a payment holiday for 
Part 3 of the mortgage (utilising the £14,400 credit) as this is where the overpayment had 
been made  meaning they would still need to make payments to the other four parts of their 
mortgage. Or, have the £14,400 credit re-apportioned and spread across all parts of the 
mortgage to allow for a payment holiday with no payments being made to the whole 
mortgage. 
Re-apportioning the credit balance doesnt mean that Mr and Mrs M are borrowing back the 
money at the lower interest rates of the parts of the mortgage where the credit is now 
applied. It is just applying the credit to a different part of their mortgage to enable them to 
have a payment holiday without accruing arrears. This means that the balance of Part 3 of 
their mortgage wont be reduced by the full £14,400 they had initially requested and would 
be increased to represent the proportion of credit applied to allow for a ten-month payment 
holiday on all parts of the mortgage. 
Taking into consideration the options which should have been explained to Mr and Mrs M 
before the payment holiday was agreed in October 2009, I think it more likely than not that 
they would have decided to have the credit balance apportioned over all five sub accounts, 
as I think they would have wanted to continue with their ten month payment holiday on all 
parts of the mortgage and avoid any arrears accruing on the mortgage.
October 2009 payment holiday until April 2013
As explained in my provisional decision, in order to consider underfunding I need to think 
about what payments Mr and Mrs M actually made, against what payments they should have 
made if the mortgage had operated as it should have. Therefore, any calculations for 
payments Mr and Mrs M should have made need to take into account how the credit balance 
would have been applied to allow for the ten month payment holiday. 
I have already addressed the calculations that YBS provided for the time period of October 
2009 until April 2013 in my provisional decision. I wont go into the detail again here as my 
reasoning can be seen above in the quoted provisional decision. However, for 
completeness, I have reviewed the calculations YBS provided and Im satisfied they fairly 
calculate the underfunding for this time period.
YBS has calculated the underfunding for the account between August 2010 and April 2013 
as £2,762.03. This should be paid to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account to reduce the 
outstanding balance, ensuring they are in the position they would have been in if 
underfunding hadnt occurred between these dates. 
May 2013 and February 2020From May 2013 until February 2020, before the Covid-19 payment holiday was put in place, 
Mr and Mrs M struggled to meet the lower (underfunding) monthly payments to their 
mortgage. 
Ive reviewed the account history and contact notes for this period and its clear that 
Mr and Mrs M were experiencing financial difficulties. Their payments were either sporadic 
or missed entirely which resulted in arrears accruing on the mortgage. Therefore, I agree 
with YBS and think that Mr and Mrs M would have been unlikely to meet the higher (correct) 
monthly payments. 
In my provisional decision, I outlined that I didnt think it would be fair to treat the whole 
period, from May 2013 until February 2020, as having no underfunding as YBS suggested. 
Neither did I think it was fair to treat the whole period as having underfunding as 
Mr and Mrs M feel it should be. 
I said that in the months where Mr and Mrs M either paid what was requested of them (the 
lower underfunding payments) or paid more than what was requested, I thought they would 
likely have paid the equivalent required payment, based off the higher monthly payment, if 
they had been informed of the correct monthly payment from the outset. But in the months 
where Mr and Mrs M either missed their monthly payment or paid less than what was 
requested, I didnt think they would have been able to meet the higher (correct) monthly 
payments. Therefore, I said that when calculating the underfunding for this period, YBS 
should calculate the missed, or less payments, at the higher (correct) monthly payment and 
adjust the arrears accordingly. And for the payments where Mr and Mrs M either paid the 
requested amount, or more, treat this as underfunding and deduct it from the account.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have disputed the missed, and lower, monthly payments 
being calculated at the higher (correct) monthly payment when calculating the underfunding. 
However, Im satisfied that this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. I say this 
because when a customer misses or pays less than their monthly payment, arrears will 
accrue on the account. Arrears is money that Mr and Mrs M would always have owed and 
needed to repay before the end of the mortgage term. Therefore, if underfunding hadnt 
occurred on the account, the arrears would always have accumulated at the higher (correct) 
monthly payment and needed to have been repaid by Mr and Mrs M. By not taking this into 
account in the calculations this would effectively put Mr and Mrs M in a better position than 
they would have been in if underfunding hadnt occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M have also questioned the methodology behind how the underfunding should 
be calculated for this period. For the avoidance of any doubt I have provided some examples 
below to demonstrate how I expect YBS to calculate underfunding for each scenario. The 
Underfunding Payment is the actual payment requested from Mr and Mrs M and the 
Adjusted Payment is what the contractual monthly payment should have been if no 
underfunding occurred. 
Date Underfunding 
Payment Adjusted 
PaymentPayment 
madeOutcome
May-13 £1,243.12 £1,334.14 £0 £1,334.14 added to the arrears. 
Jun-13 £1,243.12 £1,334.14 £1,243.12 £91.02 of underfunding 
deducted from the outstanding 
mortgage balance.
Jul-13 £1,243.12 £1,334.14 £2,486.24 £91.02 of underfunding 
deducted from the outstanding 
mortgage balance and 
£1,243.12 deducted from the 
arrears.
Oct-13 £1,243.12 £1,334.14 £1,300 £91.02 of underfunding 
deducted from the outstanding 
mortgage balance and £56.88 
deducted from the arrears. 
Aug-14 £1,248.56 £1,332.97 £1,225 £107.97 added to the arrears. 
Once the calculations and necessary amendments outlined above have been made to the 
account, YBS should calculate what Mr and Mrs Ms monthly payment would have been 
from March 2020 onwards. 
March 2020 onwards
As outlined in my provisional decision, YBS should apply Mr and Mrs Ms Covid-19 payment 
holiday from March 2020 until August 2020. It should then calculate what Mr and Mrs Ms 
monthly payment should have been in September 2020, following the end of the Covid-19 
payment holiday, and recalculate the mortgage taking into account the payments 
Mr and Mrs M have made since the payment holiday. 
If the account remains in arrears, I think Mr and Mrs M should be responsible for these. This 
is because the mortgage account would have been reworked to represent the position it 
should have been in but for the errors that YBS made. And as explained any arrears would 
be payments that Mr and Mrs M would always have needed to have made. 
YBS should also make any necessary amendments to Mr and Mrs Ms credit file to ensure 
that it accurately reflects the reworked conduct of the mortgage account.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs M dont agree the £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience is fair in the circumstances. However, as I have previously explained in my 
provisional decision, I think the award fairly recognises the upset that Mr and Mrs M would 
have been caused by finding out they hadnt been paying the correct amount to their 
mortgage. 
I note that YBS has also said that it will be unable to arrange for its system to generate the 
calculations as they are bespoke, and the data doesnt exist within its system. Whilst I 
accept that YBSs system may not be able to generate the calculations, I would expect these 
to be provided to Mr and Mrs M in an easy to follow format  such as a spreadsheet. 
To be clear, I havent considered the complaint point Mr and Mrs M have raised about their 
interest rate being higher compared to other market rates. They may still be able to raise this 
issue with our service and if this is something they wish to do, they can contact us to discuss 
it. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Yorkshire Building Society to:
- Pay the calculated underfunding of £2,762.03 for the period of August 2010 until April 
2013 to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage to reduce the outstanding balance. 
- Calculate the underfunding which occurred on the account from May 2013 until 
February 2020 on the payments where Mr and Mrs M either met the lower 
underfunding monthly payment or exceeded it. Pay the calculated amount to Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage to reduce the outstanding balance. 
- Calculate any payments that were either missed or didnt meet the lower 
underfunding payment as being processed at the correct higher payment  and 
adjust the arrears on the account accordingly. 
- Rework the account from March 2020 to take into account the Covid-19 payment 
holiday (adhering to FCA guidance), the new correct monthly payment and payments 
made to the account by Mr and Mrs M from this date. 
- Amend Mr and Mrs Ms credit files to accurately reflect the conduct of the mortgage 
account.
- Pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman