DRN-4083788
The complaint
Ms R complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves gave her loans
which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms R was advanced two loans by Fund Ourselves and below is a table of her borrowing.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £400.00 27/01/2022 15/03/2022 4 £186.40
2 £400.00 24/03/2022 outstanding 4 £190.40
Fund Ourselves wrote to Ms R to explain why it wasnt going to uphold the complaint
because it had carried out proportionate affordability checks before the loans were granted.
Unhappy with this response, Ms R referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt think Ms Rs complaint
should be upheld because in her view, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks
which showed these loans were affordable.
Ms R didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the case to be
reconsidered. As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to decide. 
I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Ms Rs complaint about loan 2 only. Both parties where then given a further opportunity to 
provide anything further for consideration  but this needed to be received by 18 April 2023.
Neither Ms R nor Fund Ourselves acknowledged or responded to the provisional decision. 
A copy of my provisional findings follows this in smaller text and forms part of this final 
decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Ms Rs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors
include:
Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R. As there were only two loans the
adjudicator didnt think this applied to Ms Rs complaint.
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Rs complaint.
For these loans, as part of her application, Ms R declared a monthly income of £2,956 for
loan 1 and £3,020 for loan 2. It was reasonable, given this was the start of the lending
relationship for Fund Ourselves to have relied on the income information Ms R had provided
without the need to verify it.
Ms R was also asked to declare her outgoings across a number of different variables, such
as travel, rent, utilities, food and commitments. For loan 1, Ms R declared her monthly
outgoings to be £1,930 and £2,260 for loan 2. The increase, in costs at loan 2, related to
having larger payments under Dependant commitments and slightly larger credit
commitment costs.
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Ms R provided she had at least £760 per
month in disposable income to afford her largest repayment of £190.40. Therefore, it
wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe these loans to be affordable for
Ms R.
Before these loans were approved Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it
has provided the Financial Ombudsman with the results it received from the credit reference
agency. I want to add that although Fund Ourselves carried out a credit search there isnt a
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Fund Ourselves was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Fund Ourselves to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Ms Rs application(s).
For loan one, Fund Ourselves knew that Ms R wasnt insolvent, and had no County CourtJudgements (CCJ). It also knew that Ms R hadnt any defaults recorded on her credit file
within the three years preceding the loan application.
However, there were some concerning information, Fund Ourselves knew that Ms R had
opened 5 new credit accounts within the last 6 months  which is close to on average of one
new account per month.
It also knew that Ms R owed other creditors (excluding her mortgage) just over £35,000
which is not an insignificant sum. But the servicing of this amount appears to have been
factored into Fund Ourselves checks because it had already seen that Ms R declared over
£1,000 per month on existing credit commitments.
Given this was the first loan application, for a fairly modest sum, and the checks carried out
were proportionate, I do think Fund Ourselves made a reasonable decision to provide this
loan. So, I am intending to not uphold Ms Rs complaint about loan 1.
However, I do think by loan 2 Fund Ourselves needed to do more. Ive already commented
on the income and expenditure information which suggested the loan was affordable. And
like loan 1 a credit search was also carried out  which showed the same information about
her solvency and CCJs.
But it knew this time, that Ms R now had 27 active credit facilities (which is an increase of 2
on loan 1). And since loan 1, Ms R had settled two further credit accounts. However, Ms R
had also opened 8 new accounts in the previous 6 months. Which to me, suggests that Ms R
was repaying credit and then applying for and being granted new lines of credit. Given the
frequency of when this credit was being granted (more than one new account per month) it is
likely, that Ms R was seeking new funds from high-cost credit providers. This is also
reflected in Ms Rs overall indebtedness, which had increased by more than £1,000
compared to loan 1.
Fund Ourselves was aware Ms R had declared that she needed £1,300 per month to service
the outstanding debt  compared to her declared income of £3,020. So, Fund Ourselves was
already on notice that more than a third of her declared income was already committed to
going on her current credit commitments. In some situations, that alone maybe enough to
say the complaint ought to be upheld.
However, the amount of total credit and Ms Rs apparent need to continue to seek and open
new credit ought to have led Fund Ourselves to gain a full understanding of Ms Rs actual
financial position to ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable.
This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings,
looking at bank statements and/or collecting any other documentation it felt it needed to
obtain to have satisfied itself the loan was affordable for Ms R. This mightve helped verify
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information that
Fund Ourselves mightve needed to consider about Ms Rs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Fund Ourselves carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it
wouldve likely discovered that Ms R couldnt afford it or Fund Ourselves was given evidence
that indicated the loans were unsustainable in some other way.
Ms R has provided her bank statements from the month before loan 2 was approved  and
given the statement production date it wouldve been the one available to Fund Ourselves if
it had taken it upon itself to carry out better checks.
To begin with there are signs that Ms R was having financial difficulties  there are five
separate direct debits that are returned as unpaid  due to insufficient funds. And the
guidance issued by the industry regulator says that missed direct debit payments can be a
sign of someone experiencing financial difficulties (Consumer Credit Sourcebook 1.3).In addition, in February 2022, Ms R paid six high-cost creditors around £1,274. This is a
significant amount to have spent solely to such creditors. And on top of this I can see what
appears to be minimum payments towards at least 9 credit cards, 2 buy now pay later
suppliers and a home shopping payment.
In my view, had Fund Ourselves carried out further checks it wouldve likely discovered Ms R
couldnt repay loan 2 sustainably. The credit checks indicated that Ms R was seeking new credit 
shortly after repaying other accounts, had what I consider to be a large number of high-cost credit 
loans to which she was already spending a third of her income on. In addition, Ms R was regularly not 
able to meet other repayments due to direct debits being returned unpaid due to insufficient funds. In 
my view, it was likely that Ms R would have had problems repaying this loan given her overall financial 
situation.
Therefore, I am intending to uphold Ms Rs complaint about loan 2 only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusions as I did in the provisional decision. I still dont think 
Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before loan 2 was advanced given the 
information it was received in the credit check it carried out. Had Fund Ourselves carried out 
more in-depth checks, it wouldve likely discovered Ms R couldnt afford the repayments she 
was committed to make. 
Ive outlined below what Fund Ourselves needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Fund Ourselves should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about
what might have happened had it not lent loan 2 to Ms R, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms R may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Fund Ourselves liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Fund Ourselves shouldnt have given Ms R loan 2 and based on the statement of account an
outstanding balance remains due. So, if Fund Ourselves has sold the outstanding debt it
should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Fund Ourselvesisnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the
results outlined below.
A. Fund Ourselves should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
any upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms R as though 
they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in 
Ms R having made overpayments then Fund Ourselves should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Fund Ourselves should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms R. Fund Ourselves shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
C. Fund Ourselves should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Rs credit 
file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fund Ourselves to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Rs 
complaint in part.
FUND OURSELVES LIMITED should put things right for Ms R as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman