DRN-3135246
The complaint
Miss A complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) delayed sending her account 
statements which meant her mortgage application could not proceed.
What happened
Miss A says she asked BoI for an account statement on 6 April 2021 which she says was 
needed for a mortgage application. She says she received the statement on 23 April 2021 
despite having called BoI about the importance of it. Miss A says the mortgage provider 
changed its lending criteria during that period and she was unable to proceed with her 
mortgage. She says she took out a different mortgage with an increase in monthly 
repayments of about £0.45 but the main extra cost were her legal fees which would have 
been paid if the first mortgage proceeded. Miss A would like those costs refunded and 
compensation for what took place.
BoI upheld Miss As complaint in part and paid her £50 compensation for the delay. It says it 
needed to check her address due to mail being returned but says it isnt responsible for what 
took place.
Miss A brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the compensation paid by BoI was appropriate and that the mortgage didnt proceed 
due to the lenders change in policy.
Miss A doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss A will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that BoI took too long to provide a statement. I can see that BoI 
accepts that and has paid £50 compensation. I think that award is fair and reasonable and 
fairly reflects what took place. I can see that Miss A accepts that award is appropriate for 
that part of the complaint.
The key issue is if BoI ought to be held responsible for Miss As mortgage application not 
proceeding and for any additional costs she may have incurred. I have looked at the two 
mortgage illustrations Miss A has provided us. The first is dated 6 April 2021 and I can see is 
valid until September 2021. The second illustration is dated 23 April 2021 which is the day 
Miss A says she received the account statement. I dont think Miss A has provided us with 
any evidence that the sole reason the first mortgage was rejected was due to any delay in 
receiving the account statement. But I can see that Miss A told us that the first mortgage 
provider changed its criteria which meant she was no longer eligible for a mortgage with that 
provider. I think that change was introduced on 8 April 2021 and so I dont think Miss A 
would have eligible for a mortgage with that provider even if she had received the account 
statement within a reasonable time period. It follows that I cant fairly hold BoI responsible for 
that first mortgage not being proceeded with and think it was the eligibility issue not the 
account statement that caused it to fail.
Overall, Im satisfied the compensation paid by BoI is fair and reasonable and I cant fairly 
hold it responsible for any costs incurred by Miss A which I find were not caused by the 
delay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman