DRN-4172404
The complaint
Mr K has complained that he was mis-sold critical illness insurance by Phoenix Life Limited 
in 1996.
What happened
The background to this matter is well known to both parties. In summary Mr K was sold life 
and critical illness cover - a Progressive Protection Plan - in 1996. He complains that he 
didnt need the critical illness cover and was not made aware that he could remove it. 
Phoenix Life is responsible for the original sale. It didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, so he 
referred the matter here, the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt find that Phoenix Life had done anything wrong. Mr K appealed.
I apologise for the time taken to reach this final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, I 
agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Due to the passage of time Phoenix Life no longer have the sale documents for this policy, 
but it has provided a pension review from January 1996. I find that this provides an accurate 
representation of Mr Ks circumstances at the time. 
Mr K was engaged and had a dependent child. The documents suggest that there was a 
need for life and critical illness cover. This would have provided for Mr Ks family in the event 
of his passing or diagnosis of a covered illness. I havent disregarded Mr Ks submission that 
he was a non-smoker and in good health, but the policy provides cover should the 
unexpected happen in the future. I dont find it was unsuitable for Mr K.
However the policy had a cooling off period  details of which were set out in the Key 
Features Document. Had Mr K decided that the policy wasnt right for him, he had 14 days to 
cancel completely. 
I do understand Mr Ks concern that the policy became more expensive, he says to the point 
it was unaffordable for him. I agree that the Key Features Document didnt specifically state 
that the critical illness cover could be cancelled at any time. But it does say, under the 
heading, Can I change the level of cover at any time  Yes. Progressive Protection is 
designed to be flexible, allowing you to alter the level of cover so that it is appropriate to your 
needs. After the first year you can increase or reduce the level of life cover and or critical 
illness cover at any time. You can reduce cover so long as the premiums and benefits do not 
fall below our minimum levels. Mr K has quoted from the same document. I find it likely that 
he did receive it at the time of the sale.
Mr K has said the reducing cover comes with certain conditions and is not easy to do. I dont 
find there is anything to show it wasnt easy to do  the policy is designed to be flexible, and 
it was open to Mr K, or Mrs K, to make enquiries. They did so in 2022 and it became 
apparent that it was possible to remove the critical illness cover. I understand that has now 
been done and that Mr K is awaiting the return of premiums, this forms another complaint, so 
I wont comment further here.
In all the circumstances I dont find that the policy was mis-sold or that Mr K was mis-
advised. Had Mr K needed to make a critical illness claim when the policy was in force, it 
would have responded. This being so there is no basis for me to require Phoenix Life to 
refund the premiums paid for the critical illness cover.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman