DRN-3067482
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a personal contract purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here was about 
17 months old and had already completed about 28,000 miles. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But if the fault occurs after six months the 
relevant legislation puts the onus on the consumer to demonstrate it was present when the 
car was supplied.
All of the faults Mr P has reported were identified after six months. The brake callipers 
needed attention ten months after supply, but the cracked gearbox case and accident 
damage wasnt identified until Mr P had a health check completed in March 2021; about 14 
months after hed taken receipt of the car and after the car had completed a further 20,000 
further miles.
Whilst the independent inspector identified significant problems with the car and agreed 
there was accident damage and it was unsafe to drive, he was not able to comment on 
whether that damage was likely to have been present when the car was supplied to Mr P. In 
those circumstances Im afraid I dont think sufficient evidence has been provided to 
demonstrate the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. I dont therefore think it 
would be fair to ask MotoNovo to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman