DRN-2567361
The complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) recorded incorrect information on his credit file and then didnt amend this 
after saying it would. He says this resulted in him receiving a higher interest rate on a loan 
he applied for. 
What happened
Mr G entered a two year hire agreement with VWFS in March 2016. In January 2018, he 
received a letter about is account saying it was in arrears. Mr G contacted VWFS and he 
was told the letter was sent in error and that there were no arrears on his account. He says 
he was told his credit file would be amended to ensure this hadnt had an impact. 
In November 2019, Mr G applied for a loan. He says before doing so he used a checking 
service which suggested he was 95% likely to get the lowest advertised rate of 3.1%. He 
made his application and following the credit scoring the interest rate increased to 7.9%. He 
then applied for a mortgage in December 2019 and says at this time he was told about the 
late payment markers on his credit file. Mr G contacted VWFS and discovered the 
amendment promised in January 2018 hadnt been made. He believes this was the reason 
for the higher interest rate on his November 2019 loan.
VWFS says that Mr G contacted it in January 2018 and following this a request was 
submitted to its three credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information that had 
been recorded in respect to his September and October 2017 payments. It says Mr G then 
contacted it in December 2019 to say the adverse information hadnt been updated with one 
of the credit reference agencies. In its final response letter dated 31 March 2020, VWFS said 
the credit information had been reviewed and it was correct. It offered to pay Mr G £150 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator said that mistakes had been made with incorrect information being recorded 
on Mr Gs credit file. However, she wasnt persuaded that this issue alone was the reason 
why Mr G was given a higher interest rate than he had expected on a loan. She said that 
Mr G had been caused inconvenience by the issues he had experienced and thought that 
the offer of £150 by VWFS was reasonable to recognise this. 
Mr G responded to our investigators view. He said the only negative information on his 
credit file at the time he took out the November 2019 loan was the information wrongly 
recorded by VWFS. He says this was the reason for him receiving a higher interest rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr G is upset by the service he received from VWFS when he ended 
his hire agreement. It appears that when the agreement was ended early a further payment 
was incorrectly attempted which resulted in an arrears letter being sent. When Mr G 
contacted VWFS about this issue it accepted the mistake and said the credit reference 
agencies would be contacted so his credit file could be amended. I think this was a 
reasonable response to the issue raised.
However, in 2019, Mr G found out that there were still late payment markers recorded on his 
credit file with one of the credit reference agencies. VWFS has clarified the situation and 
explained that a late / missed payment marker was recorded on Mr Gs in respect to August, 
September and October 2017 and that this adverse information was removed from all the 
credit refence agencies in January 2018. However, it says that one of the credit reference 
agencies then recorded again a late / missed payment marker for September and October 
2017. This was removed in December 2019 following Mr Gs contact. So while it appears 
VWFS took reasonable actions in 2017, adverse information was then re-recorded with one 
of the credit reference agencies.
It isnt clear why the adverse information was re-recorded but it is clear that VWFS made 
mistakes which meant the original late / missed payments were incorrectly recorded and had 
this not happened the subsequent issue of the data being re-recorded wouldnt have 
happened.
Mr G wasnt aware there was incorrect information recorded on his credit file when he 
applied for a loan in November 2019. He says that he carried out a check which suggested 
he was 95% likely to receive the loan at the lowest rate. He says this check was based on 
his providing information about the loan amount and term and his personal details. The only 
other factor the loan provider included in its assessment was credit scoring and Mr G says 
that after this happened the interest rate he was offered was 7.9%.
I can understand why Mr G is unhappy that the interest rate he received was higher than the 
minimum offered at that time. However, for me to say that VWFS has liability for the 
differential I would need to be satisfied that it caused the incorrect information to be 
rerecorded and that without the incorrect information Mr G would have secured a rate of 
3.1%. Unfortunately, I do not find I can say this.
I have looked at a recent copy of Mr Gs credit file and while this shows the situation after 
this incident it also gives information from the time. Having looked at this I can see that Mr G 
had other credit commitments at the time and while he was maintaining payments he had 
other outstanding balances. 
The loan provider has explained that the interest rate provided is based on the information it 
gathers and its own internal credit scoring. This will be commercially sensitive and while I 
note the comment Mr G has made about the information he provided before and after the 
3.1% was suggested, I cannot say that Mr G received a higher interest rate than the 
minimum solely because of the late payment markers recorded on one of the credit files. 
Because of this, I do not find I can hold VWFS liable for the difference in the rates Mr G has 
noted.
Mr G wasnt provided with the service he should have been and while his credit file has been 
amended so that it is now back in the position it would have been had the mistakes not been 
made, I find he was caused upset and inconvenience due to the issue in January 2018 and 
then the further discovery of the late payment markers in December 2019. Because of this I 
agree that compensation is required. I have considered the amount that would be fair and as 
VWFS addressed the situation in January 2018 and then acted in a timely way when the 
further issue was raised in December 2019, I find that the £150 offered is reasonable.
My final decisionMy final decision is that the offer made by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
trading as Audi Financial Services to pay Mr G £150 is reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman