DRN-2922726
The complaint
Ms P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to an 
investment / trading scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In June 2020 Ms P made a debit card payment to a merchant Ill refer to as P. The payment 
was for around £450. At the time Ms P believed she was crediting a legitimate investment 
platform. 
Having made the payment, Ms P says she later discovered that P were unregulated and she 
concluded they were operating a scam.  She contacted Monzo and asked them to help her 
get her money back through a chargeback. 
Monzo looked into this but ultimately said they couldnt assist. They said there was no 
protection under the chargeback scheme in these circumstances. Ms P complained and 
when Monzo maintained their position the complaint was referred to our service. One of our 
Investigators sympathised with Ms Ps position but didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. Ms P disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to 
investments. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback route 
to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. But 
in this case, the nature of Ms Ps claim is that P were operating a scam, and this isnt 
something the chargeback scheme provides protection against. So, I dont think Monzo 
acted unfairly when declining to take a chargeback further, as I dont think their conclusion 
that there wasnt an avenue for them to pursue that had any prospect of success was 
unreasonable. 
Our Investigator also considered whether Monzo ought to have intervened when the initial 
payment was made. She concluded that the debit card payment wasnt so unusual that she 
would have expected Monzo to have intervened at the time. Ms P disputes this, she has 
quoted from and referenced the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  
Protecting Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. 
Ive considered all of this and it isnt in dispute that Monzo has (and had) obligations to be 
alert to fraud and to act in its customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether 
the instruction Ms P gave to Monzo when authorising the debit card payment was unusual in 
relation to the typical account activity. 
Clearly there is a balance to be struck between allowing customers access to their funds and 
being alert to instances of potential fraud and scams. Prior to the payment in question, Ms P 
had recently made payments of broadly similar amounts. Overall, I dont think Monzo were 
wrong to allow the payment to be made. I dont think the activity was so unusual for this 
particular account where I think it would have been reasonable for them to have intervened 
and to have spoken to Ms P before processing it. I also dont think there were any other 
reasons for Monzo to have done more before following the instruction Ms P provided. 
Im sorry Ms P has lost money in this way. But I dont think Monzo reasonably ought to have 
done more at the time the payment was made, nor do I think they ought to have done more 
to pursue a chargeback. As such, I cant fairly tell them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman