DRN-3577029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt reimbursed them after they 
transferred £5,000 to an investment that they say later turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr and Mrs S feel theyve been the victims of a scam. 
They say they were tricked into transferring £5,000 to a company that initially appeared to 
be a legitimate investment broker. Mr and Mrs S now believe they were actually dealing 
with scammers. 
Mr and Mrs S initially invested £5,000 and received dividends for a number of months 
before the dividend payments stopped and Mr and Mrs S heard nothing further. Theyve 
told us they later got in touch with a number of other people who had been scammed by the 
same broker.
When attempting to make the £5,000 payment online, Mrs S was contacted by Lloyds to 
discuss the payment prior to it leaving her and Mr Ss account. Mrs S now believes that 
Lloyds shouldve told her this payment was potentially fraudulent at the time. Mr and Mrs S 
say that had Lloyds told them this, the scam wouldve come to light, and they wouldnt have 
proceeded to make the transfer.
Lloyds didnt agree with Mr and Mrs S. It said it had done all it could to protect Mr and Mrs 
S and there wasnt anything further it could do to help them get their money back now 
either. It said that the broker Mr and Mrs S had been speaking with had more than likely 
invested their money as requested, but the company was liquidated in 2019, and this was 
the likely reason the dividends had stopped - rather than this being a scam from the outset. 
For this reason, Lloyds didnt think Mr and Mrs S had been the victims of a scam. They 
thought this was more than likely a civil dispute and Mr and Mrs S should now pursue their 
loss with the Official Receiver. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs S bought their complaint to this service and one 
of our investigators looked into things. She didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt comment 
on whether the complaint was a civil dispute or not. She said that even if Mr and Mrs S had 
been the victims of a scam, this still wouldnt result in the case being upheld as Mr and Mrs 
S wanted. 
She said this was because the £5,000 transaction wasnt particularly unusual or out of 
character for Mr and Mrs Ss account, but even so, Lloyds had contacted Mrs S about the 
payment before it agreed to process it on her behalf. During this conversation, Lloyds had 
warned Mrs S about the possibility of scams. Mrs S had confirmed that she knew the broker 
she was dealing with wasnt regulated but as the interest rate offered was so was good, she 
was willing to take the risk. Because of this, our investigator didnt think there was anything 
Lloyds couldve said that wouldve prevented Mrs S from going ahead with this payment. At 
the time, Mrs S had been confident that the payment was legitimate and had wished to 
proceed. For this reason, our investigator didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Lloyds liable for Mr and Mrs Ss loss now. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators findings. They said they had a friend who 
had fallen victim to the same scam and their complaint had been upheld by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and they wanted to know why. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr and Mrs S. I have significant 
sympathy for the situation they have found themselves in. But having thought very 
carefully about what theyve told us happened at the time and Lloyds actions, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds liable for the loss. 
I understand that Lloyds feel this is a civil dispute between Mr and Mrs S and their 
investment broker. I also understand that Mr and Mrs S disagree. Theyve said that the 
broker did not use their funds as they thought and this was a scam from the outset - any 
dividends received in the months after their £5,000 payment were actually funded by 
victims who fell victim to the scam after Mr and Mrs S. I dont intend to make a finding on 
this point. This is because even if I were to agree with Mr and Mrs S that this was a scam, 
I still dont think this would result in the outcome they want  the return of their funds. Ill 
explain why in more detail below. 
Lloyds obligations
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm. 
In this case, Lloyds fraud monitoring system did identify the £5,000 payment that Mr and 
Mrs S were attempting to make as a unusual and because of this, Lloyds contacted Mrs S 
to discuss the payment before it allowed it to leave their account. Lloyds has provided me 
with a recording of this telephone call and I have listened to it in full. 
The conversation that took place between Lloyds and Mrs S
I agree with our investigator that the £5,000 transaction was somewhat unusual for Mr and 
Mrs Ss account and so Im pleased to see that Lloyds contacted Mrs S to discuss it with her 
before it allowed it to leave their account. And having listened to the conversation that took 
place, I think that Lloyds advisor couldve been a little clearer in explaining what an 
unregulated investment meant. However, even if the conversation had been more in depth, 
Im not persuaded that it wouldve made a difference here. Im satisfied that it is more likely 
than not that Mrs S wouldve requested to continue with the payment regardless.
 
Its important that I stress at this point that it is impossible for me to say exactly how this 
conversation would have unfolded and so I must base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened had Lloyds questioned Mrs S further. And Ive done this by 
considering the usual types of questions I wouldve expected Lloyds to ask and Mrs S 
responses at the time.  
Generally, where a fraud risk has been identified and Lloyds is informed its customer is 
attempting to make a payment for the purposes of an investment, I would expect Lloyds to 
ask its customer some probing questions. Typically Id expect Lloyds to ask how the 
customer has been contacted, what research they have done on the company they are 
sending the money to, what returns they are expecting and whether the have checked that 
the company is with registered with the UK financial services regulator  The Financial 
Conduct Authority or FCA.
During the conversation with Mrs S, Lloyds enquire how she has been contacted and what 
research she has carried out. Mrs S confirms that it was she who contacted the broker and 
that she has conducted all of the necessary research. Mrs S confirms she would never 
respond to a cold-call and is happy everything is above board, at one stage, appearing to 
become frustrated with Lloyds questioning she says: I feel okay about it, you might not, 
but I do and she proceeds to tell the advisor this isnt a scam.
She also proactively tells Lloyds advisor that she is expecting returns of over 10% and that 
she is aware that the investment is unregulated. Mrs S says this is the reason she has 
decided to go ahead - she would only get 2 or 3% if the investment was regulated and she 
is prepared to take the risk  as she would not invest money she could not afford to lose. 
Ive also listened to another recording of a telephone conversation between Mrs S and 
Lloyds. This conversation takes place after the scam has been reported and Mrs S and 
another of Lloyds advisors are discussing the conversation that took place at the time. 
During this call, Mrs S says that she thought the real reason Lloyds had called to discuss 
the payment with her was because it didnt want her to move her money out of her account 
but they werent paying her interest.
So, having considered all of the available evidence, Im not satisfied that there was 
anything Lloyds couldve done to prevent this payment from leaving Mr and Mrs Ss account. At the time, Mrs S was confident that she had done all of the necessary research. 
She was aware that the returns being offered were unusually high and the investment she 
was entering into was unregulated. And so, Im not persuaded that Lloyds highlighting any 
of this information wouldve changed her mind. 
As Ive said above, I do think that at some points during the call, Lloyds couldve been 
stronger in setting out that this could be a scam, but I have to bear in mind that Lloyds 
wouldnt have known it was a scam at the time either, there was no warning added to the 
FCA website until 2019, and its clear that throughout the call, Mrs S is determined to make 
the payment. I also have to take into consideration that Mrs S says, sometime later, that 
she believed at the time that Lloyds had a vested interest in keeping her money. And so, 
whilst Im satisfied that Lloyds couldve been a little clearer in its communication with Mrs S, 
I dont think any additional information wouldve prevented Mrs S from sending this 
payment and so it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold Lloyds liable for the loss now.
I understand that Mrs S has said that she is aware of someone else, who also fell victim to 
the same scam, having had their complaint upheld. I must stress that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service assesses each case on its own merits, and I cannot comment on the 
outcome reached in another complaint. However, I will say that when deciding this 
complaint, I have focused on the telephone conversation that took place at the time and it 
wouldnt be possible for the same conversation to have been replicated elsewhere.  
Finally, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr and Mrs S have 
found themselves in. I know this scam has taken its toll. I understand why Mrs S feels so 
strongly that her and Mr S money should be returned to them and I know she has put a 
considerable amount of time and effort into her and Mr Ss complaint. But at the same 
time, I dont think their loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of Lloyds. The fault 
here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the people who misused Mr and Mrs S funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman