DRN-4067637
The complaint
Mr D complains that when Barclays Bank UK PLC opened his personal loan it removed his 
personal account overdraft facility without telling him. 
What happened
Mr D applied for a personal loan and after underwriting Barclays approved the loan with the 
condition that two overdrafts Mr D had were removed when the loan was paid to his account.
Mr D complained to Barclays that hed been told the overdraft on his joint account would be 
removed but wasnt told the overdraft on his personal account would also be removed. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and said a staff member told Mr D that the two 
overdrafts would be removed as a condition of the loan before the loan amount was paid to 
his account.
Mr D brought the complaint to the Financial Services Ombudsman and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought, on the balance of probability, that 
Barclays told Mr D that it was a condition of the loan both overdrafts were removed. Mr D 
asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D will be disappointed, but for very much the same reason as the 
Investigator, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will now explain why.
Mr D says he initially arranged the loan on-line and not in his local branch. I accept this may 
be the case, but where and how the loan was arranged is not the crux of this complaint. The 
crux of the complaint is whether Barclays told Mr D that both overdrafts were to be removed 
when the loan was paid to him. So, regardless of when and where the application was made, 
I will focus on what happened between Barclays accepting the loan and when the loan was 
paid to Mr D.
Barclays has provided a copy of the loan agreement and Mr D has confirmed to us that the 
purpose of the loan was to pay off the overdrafts. Barclays has also provided a copy of its 
system notes explaining that the loan was approved with the condition that both overdrafts 
were removed and that the local branch staff should tell Mr D of this before the loan was 
paid to him. Mr D says a staff member at the local branch told him the overdrafts would be 
paid off. And, Barclays has told us that its spoken to the staff member, and its satisfied the 
member of staff told Mr D the two overdrafts were to be removed from the accounts. 
Unfortunately, there are no call recordings of the telephone discussions and there are no 
specific notes recorded on Barclays systems confirming when these calls took place.
Without any written evidence to support that Barclays told Mr D both overdrafts were to be 
removed before the loan could be paid into his account, Ive taken into account the 
testimonies Mr D and Barclays have provided, along with other supporting evidence. My final 
decision is therefore based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
I dont think theres any dispute from what Mr D has told us that the loan was to pay off both 
overdrafts. I think this is supported by Barclays making it a condition of the loan that both 
overdrafts were removed. Mr D doesnt recall being told that his personal account overdraft 
would be removed but has told us a Barclays staff member called him before the loan was 
paid out to say the overdraft on his joint account would be removed. This persuades me that 
there was a discussion before the loan was paid into Mr Ds account. 
The system notes provided by Barclays confirm that the loan was underwritten on 21 
November and Barclays says that its member of staff called Mr D on 21 November. I think 
its more likely than not this is the call Ive referred to above. Mr D says that in this call he 
was told that the overdraft on the joint account would be removed but wasnt told the one on 
his personal account would also be removed. Barclays says the member of staff read out the 
conditions of the loan to Mr D, which included the removal of both overdrafts. Ive seen the 
system notes provided by Barclays  the first one explains the overdraft on Mr Ds personal 
account will be removed, and the second explains the joint account overdraft will also be 
removed. It seems more likely than not that the Barclays staff member would have read both 
conditions during this telephone call, particularly as Mr D recalls being told of the second of 
the conditions. Mr D may have thought the loan was to pay off the overdrafts and the 
overdraft on his personal account was being retained, but I think its unlikely Barclays would 
have told Mr D one was being removed and the other wasnt.
Mr D feels he no longer has an overdraft for emergency purposes and wouldnt have taken 
the loan if hed known this. I empathise with Mr D but based on what I think is likely to have 
happened, I dont think Barclays did anything significantly wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons provided above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman