DRN-3516768
The complaint
Ms C complains Lloyds Bank PLC has mishandled her data when arranging travel insurance 
through her packaged bank account.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Ms C has travel insurance arranged through her packaged bank account that she 
holds with Lloyds.
Lloyds were responsible for sending Ms Cs address details to the insurer. 
Unfortunately, an error occurred, and the wrong address details were sent.
Ms C having noticed online that the details were incorrect notified the insurer. But it 
didnt amend the details and it sent a letter containing personal medical information 
to the wrong address.
Ms C has raised a separate complaint through our service about the insurers 
actions. However, our investigator during her investigation discovered the incorrect 
details had been supplied by Lloyds via an automatic data feed.
Ms C would like an explanation as to how the breach occurred. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. However, Ms C isnt happy as she doesnt 
know how the error occurred and therefore doesnt have the confidence that it wont 
happen again. So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen it is clear the insurer was at fault for not actioning Ms Cs request to 
amend her address. However, its clear that the incorrect address was provided by Lloyds 
and had the automatic feed contained the correct address for Ms C, there would have been 
less risk of a data breach occurring.
From the information available it seems the address that was used is known to Ms C. Lloyds 
have said the address was recorded on their system as a correspondence address but it has 
been unable to provide us further details as to how that address was set up. It said that it 
seemed likely it had failed to remove the incorrect address when it was no longer in use.
Ms C has said she has never supplied Lloyds a correspondence address and even if she 
did, the address it used is an amalgamation of her current address and the third party 
address that Ms C knows, so why would she supply it with an incorrect postal address. 
I can empathise with Ms C frustration of not knowing how this happened. But unfortunately, 
although we have asked Lloyds what happened it hasnt been able to give us any more 
information and we are unable to establish exactly what happened in this instance. I can see 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show the address they now hold for Ms C is correct, so it 
seems Lloyds has taken appropriate steps to avoid this happening again. Ms C can also ask 
Lloyds for a subject access request to obtain her personal information to help assure her that 
the information it holds is correct.   
Putting things right
When considering the compensation for the impact of this error I have considered that the 
insurer has already awarded financial compensation to Ms C as it was the one that disclosed 
the medical information. So, Ive taken that into consideration when deciding reasonable 
compensation.  
I agree with our investigator, and in the circumstances of this complaint £100 compensation 
is fair for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman