DRN-4154909
The complaint
Mr S complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc gave him misleading information about making 
pet insurance claims for his dog.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr S got a rescue dog Ill call B. He noticed in June 2022 that Bs rear 
legs were shaking. And in July 2022 whilst running B injured a leg. Mr S took B to the vet 
who advised he wait a couple of weeks to see if the injury B got whilst running improved. 
Before going back to the vet Mr S called Pinnacle, as hed pet insurance cover with them 
from May 2022. He said the shaking legs were to be looked at by a neurologist and that 
further tests might be needed to determine whether the injury whilst running was a cruciate 
ligament injury. Mr S said he was told that as they were two conditions, he could claim for 
each one. But subsequently Pinnacle treated them as being one bilateral condition. Mr S 
complained to Pinnacle and provided evidence from his vet to say that the two conditions 
were separate, one being a cruciate ligament injury and the other a degenerative disease.
Pinnacle said theyd listened to the calls between them and Mr S and didnt find any 
evidence that Mr S had been misled about his claims. They said that they considered 
cruciate ligaments as a bilateral body part and that once one bilateral body part is affected it 
will later affect the opposite body part.
Mr S wasnt happy with Pinnacles response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr S had been given conflicting information which meant he hadnt 
submitted a further claim. And hed had to make several calls about his existing claims. He 
said Pinnacle should pay Mr S £75 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Pinnacle didnt agree they said as this was before a claim had been submitted or assessed 
when Mr S called he was advised on the basis of the information he gave. They asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why.
It must have been a distressing time for Mr S to see his dog suffering. I can see that Mr S 
throughout has constantly asked for an explanation as to why Bs conditions would be 
treated as one condition. He says one was an injury, the cruciate ligament suffered whilst B 
was running. And the other an illness caused by degenerative disease from the living 
conditions B experienced whilst a stray.
Having listened to the calls, in August 2022 Mr S called Pinnacle and explained B was 
going to see a neurologist as their rear legs were shaking. He also explained that B had 
suffered a possible cruciate ligament injury whilst running and that further checks such as an 
MRI or x-rays might need to be done. And its in this call where Mr S is told about an injury 
condition and a illness condition. And the way he could claim for the two conditions. Mr S 
was clear that the conditions were affecting his dogs legs, but at no point in the call was    
Mr S expectations managed about the assessment of any claims, or advised about bilateral 
conditions or referred to the policy wording which says:
Condition(s) means any illness or accidental injury whether or not it results in a diagnosis. 
There will be conditions that will fall in the following categories: 1. Bilateral means any 
condition affecting right and left sides or paired organs or body parts of your pet such as (but 
not limited to) ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, hips and patellae, where there is an underlying 
cause
In subsequent calls Mr S asks for clarity as to why an illness condition and an injury 
condition would be treated as one condition. And in one call hes told that Pinnacle has 
accepted his claim for the cruciate ligament damage to be treated but would treat a claim for 
the other leg as being bilateral if linked. Mr S in this call asked what it meant to be not 
linked. At which point the call was transferred across to the claims department. And in the 
handover the injury was referred to as a fracture which Mr S had to correct. I dont think it 
was explained to him what linked meant Mr S was just told the conditions would be treated 
as bilateral and the amount of benefit cover he had remaining. It wasnt until December 2022 
that I think it was explained in a call with Mr S that the cruciate ligament injury was as a 
consequence of the degenerative disease (underlying cause) in both Bs legs which was 
why it would be treated as one bilateral condition.
So I think Mr S did receive misleading information when he first called to discuss Bs 
medical history. He took from this call that there was a difference between an injury condition 
and an illness condition, and as he understood the cruciate ligament injury was a result of an 
accident. And the other leg was an illness as it was caused by a degenerative condition this 
led to Mr S having to make several calls to try to ascertain how claims he submitted against 
his pet insurance cover would be treated. It took several calls and several months before   
Mr S was given a clear explanation.
I think this added to the distress and inconvenience Mr S was having to go through in trying 
to get treatment for his dog. So, I agree that Pinnacle should compensate Mr S for this, and I 
think £75 is fair and reasonable.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Pinnacle Insurance Plc to pay Mr S £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their poor administration and customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman