DRN-3560305
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that when she tried to use the breakdown cover as part of a Travel 
pack that she took out with Barclays Bank UK PLC, she was told by the breakdown provider 
that it did not have any records of her being covered. This led to her having to ask a 
manager at the breakdown provider to send a recovery vehicle.
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs Ls car broke down. She contacted the provider of the breakdown 
cover that she held as part of her Travel pack. She was informed that it did not have records 
of her being covered. Mrs L said she had to, in her own words beg for them to send out a 
recovery vehicle. A few days later Mrs L contacted Barclays and was informed it was an IT 
issue at Barclays end that caused the insurance provider to be unaware that she had cover 
in place. Barclays rectified the issue, apologised and offered Mrs L £100 for the distress 
caused by this issue. Mrs L wanted all the fees that she paid for the Travel pack since she 
took it out in 2020 refunded and therefore she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and he concluded that whilst Barclays had 
made an error the offer of £100 that it had made was fair and reasonable. Mrs L did not 
agree and therefore her complaint was passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
It is clear that Barclays had made an error and neither party disputes this. Therefore I need 
to consider whether the offer that Barclays has made is sufficient given the overall 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has said that as when she phoned the breakdown provider she was told that she was 
not covered she should get all her Travel pack fees back as, after all, if she was not covered 
what was she paying for. I understand Mrs Ls reasoning on this. But our role is to generally 
put a consumer back into the position that they wouldve been in had Barclays not made an 
error. In this instance asking Barclays to refund all the Travel pack fees would mean that Mrs 
L would be in a position where she didnt have any breakdown cover  but she did eventually 
get a recovery vehicle and paid no fees for her car to be recovered. So refunding all of the 
Travel pack fees would essentially place Mrs L back into a position more advantageous than 
if nothing had gone wrong.
Overall, in a situation like this, I think an award for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
merited instead. 
When considering the level of an award I need to consider how long it took to rectify the 
matter and cases that share similar features. In this instance, I recognise that it wouldve 
been distressing for Mrs L to be told that she didnt have breakdown cover when she knew 
she did. But fortunately, a recovery vehicle was sent out to her and she wasnt required to 
pay anything extra at the time. And Barclays did accept it was at fault and try to resolve 
matters by offering to pay an award to reflect the fact that Mrs L was inconvenienced by its 
error.  So considering all the circumstances, I think that the £100 offered by Barclays is a 
reasonable award and in line with what I would have recommended had it not made such a 
offer. So I think what is has agreed to do is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) needs to pay £100 to Mrs L to put matters right. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) needs to pay £100 to Mrs L to put 
matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman