DRN-3432949
The complaint
Mr Es complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC UK) concerns issues with the service 
provided to him in respect of his InvestDirect International sharedealing account (IDIA) and 
his Expat bank account. 
What happened
The issues Mr E has complained about date back to 2008 and involve, in part at least, HSBC 
Bank plc, Jersey Branch (HSBC Jersey). This is by virtue of the requirement to hold an 
account with HSBC Expat (a division of HSBC Jersey) in order to open and maintain an 
IDIA. 
Mr E has previously referred a complaint encompassing the same, or similar, issues to the 
Channel Islands Financial Ombudsman (CIFO) A decision on the merits of that complaint 
was issued by CIFO in January 2020. However, Mr E also referred his complaint to this 
service, just prior to the CIFO decision being issued. 
HSBC UK then questioned whether this service could, or should, look at the various issues 
Mr E had raised. This was on the basis theyd either been referred outside the time limits 
required by the Financial Conduct Authority DISP Rules that govern our service, or already 
dealt with in the CIFO decision. 
An ombudsman at this service considered HSBC UKs various objections and issued a 
decision setting out which of Mr Es concerns he felt we could, and should, look at. He 
dismissed some aspects of the complaint, as he agreed that several had already been dealt 
with by the CIFO decision. 
But the ombudsman accepted that some other aspects of Mr Es complaint could be 
considered. Although theyd already been looked into by HSBC UK some years ago, he 
wasnt satisfied Mr E wouldve received copies of its responses at the time, due to an issue 
with the address it held for Mr E. 
c
In summary, the concerns specified in that decision as those we would consider were:
The matter of a holding of Kraft shares being re-materialised into certificated form 
and sent to the United States in error.
The operation of Mr Es IDIA, particularly the provision of conflicting and misleading 
information about responsibility for the setting of trading limits. 
Although the background and circumstances of both these issues are well known to the 
parties, Ill give a brief summary of each, for ease of reference. 
Kraft Shares
Mr E held shares in Cadbury Plc when it was taken over by Kraft Foods Inc in November 
2009. The following February, HSBC UK sent investors a corporate action notification giving 
details of the takeover and investors options; in short, a cash and share offer entitled 
Cadbury shareholders to a cash payment and a proportionate number of Kraft shares. As 
the Kraft shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the appropriate US tax form 
(a W-8BEN) needed to have been completed for them to be held in an IDIA.   
Mr Es complaint in relation to this issue concerns the administration of the process following 
the corporate action, during the course of 2010. 239 Kraft shares were applied to his IDIA, 
but HSBC UK felt a W-8BEN was required from Mr E and there were problems obtaining a 
properly completed version. HSBC UK sent Mr E a blank form to complete and followed this 
up with attempts to call him. Mr E questioned the requirement for the form but did return it. 
However, HSBC UK felt it hadnt been completed correctly. Eventually, in the continuing 
absence of a valid W-8BEN, the 239 Kraft shares were removed from Mr Es IDIA and re-
materialised into certificated form. 
Mr E complained, but HSBC UK felt it had generally acted correctly in trying to obtain the 
W-8BEN and then in removing the shares from Mr Es IDIA. It did, however, offer him £100 
compensation as it acknowledged it had dealt with the matter poorly, with inconsistent and 
confusing information provided to him at times.  
Trading Limit
HSBC UKs IDIA is an execution-only sharedealing and investing service, provided to 
customers who also open and maintain an Expat bank account. Trades on the IDIA are 
settled through a sub-account of the IDIA, directly linked to the Expat account. Sale 
proceeds are paid into the Expat account following settlement, and purchases are paid for 
from monies drawn from the Expat account.  
The issue being considered here about the IDIA relates to the trading limit applied to it  the 
level that the value of deals placed on the account, but yet to settle, must not exceed. The 
default trading limit on an IDIA appears to have been £10,000 for the period in question, with 
requests for higher levels being considered and granted where appropriate. 
Mr Es concerns relate to his limit being changed  lowered  at various points and how this 
has inconvenienced him. And hes also particularly concerned with which entity is 
responsible for making changes to the limit. In short, is it HSBC Jersey or HSBC UK?   
 
An investigator at this service duly considered these two issues and concluded that HSBC 
UK had acted correctly. In respect of the Kraft shares issue she said, in brief: 
 
Having considered all the information available, she didnt think HSBC UK made an 
error when it removed the Kraft shares from the IDIA and transferred them into 
Mr Es name. 
She was satisfied HSBC UK hadnt received the required US forms to enable it to 
hold the Kraft shares in the IDIA.
HSBC UK had provided Mr E with a blank W-8BEN form when he applied for the 
IDIA and also when it sent him the corporate action letter. When it didnt receive a 
response, it chased him between July and September 2010. 
When it received the incorrectly completed form in October 2010, it resent the form 
and explained to Mr E what error had been made, so he wouldnt repeat it.
As HSBC UK didnt receive the form within a reasonable timeframe, it couldnt 
continue to hold the shares in Mr Es IDIA, and HSBC UK made reasonable attempts 
to contact Mr E. 
He didnt make a financial loss as a result of the shares being removed from his 
account. HSBC UK confirmed he received the dividend payments that were due during this 
time.
In respect of the trading limit issue, the investigator said, in brief:
The investigation carried out in respect of the complaint Mr E made to the CIFO had 
confirmed that responsibility for setting and changing trading limits sat with HSBC 
UK, rather than HSBC Jersey.
Without evidence to show otherwise, she was satisfied this was the case. 
HSBC UK had explained that IDIA trading limits were reduced when there was a lack 
of trading activity on accounts. 
This was the approach taken in Mr Es case and the investigator was satisfied it was 
reasonable. 
Mr E had been able to increase his limit on several occasions, so HSBC UKs 
process didnt appear to have been detrimental to Mr E.
She could appreciate it wouldve been frustrating to discover that his trading limit had 
been lowered. But he had been made aware when it first occurred in 2008 that it was 
due to a lack of trading activity. So, he wouldve known it was likely to happen later 
when similar circumstances arose.  
She acknowledges Mr Es concerns about the IDIA not being standard but had seen 
nothing to suggest it didnt meet its regulatory requirements. 
 
Mr E didnt accept the investigators view. He provided further submissions, reiterating much 
of what hed previously said about the trading limits issue and HSBC Jerseys role in the 
matter. He felt that the terms of the IDIA didnt provide for limit reductions to be made and 
that there was no credit risk to HSBC UK that would mean it was appropriate to reduce 
trading limits. He also felt thered been a lack of competence and training on the part of 
HSBC UKs staff. 
In respect of the Kraft shares issue, he noted that at the time of the corporate action hed 
already been holding US-listed Dr Pepper shares, which would imply that HSBC UK had 
already been in possession of a valid W-8BEN, or that one wasnt in fact necessary. 
The investigator raised this latter issue with HSBC UK. It acknowledged the point but said 
that due to the passage of time it was unable to give a firm explanation. It suggested a 
change of policy around that time, or simply an oversight on its part, mightve been the 
reason for the apparent contradiction. But it couldnt be sure. 
The investigator concluded that it was most likely that HSBC UK hadnt had a W-8BEN on 
file at the time, so she remained satisfied it was reasonable for HSBC UK to have requested 
one. She noted Mr Es additional concerns about how he had been communicated with, and 
the delays relating to using international postal services. But she didnt think HSBC UK had 
acted incorrectly in opting to use a postal service. She felt it was entitled to choose what 
methods it used to communicate with customers in different circumstances. 
The investigator also added some further comments in response to points made by Mr E 
about the trading limit issue. She said that the terms of the IDIA did refer to the security of 
the account, but it wasnt unusual for specific processes to not be explained in detail in the 
terms. She noted Mr Es further comments about the credit risk but, again, felt that HSBC UK 
was entitled to make decisions about its risk exposure and had implemented a reasonable 
policy in that respect.  
Mr E remained in disagreement with the investigators opinion and submitted further 
comments. So, the matters been referred to me to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id say first that I recognise Mr E has very strong feelings about his complaint. Hes provided 
detailed submissions in support of his view of the matter, which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. 
However, I trust he wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. Rather, its purpose is to set out 
my conclusions and the reasons for reaching them. And Id also stress again that Im 
considering only the specific issues that it was previously decided we could and should look 
at  namely, the Kraft shares issue and the trading limit issue. 
I am, however, conscious that Mr Es concerns are long-running and far-reaching and, as a 
result, the issues being considered here have been unavoidably impacted by related issues 
and matters that sit outside this services jurisdiction; actions that are the responsibility of 
HSBC Jersey. While I cant make findings in respect of those related issues, Id like to 
reassure Mr E that Ive considered the matters on which I am able to make findings in as fair 
and pragmatic a manner as is possible in the circumstances. 
I would also point out that where the information I have is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities  what is more likely 
than not to have happened.
Turning first to the issue of the Kraft shares, I can appreciate Mr Es frustration that the 
holding was rematerialised. But I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to make a 
finding that HSBC UK acted incorrectly. The W-8BEN wouldve been a requirement for 
holding US-listed stock and Ive not seen anything to suggest that HSBC UK was already in 
possession of one. 
Clearly, trying to obtain one from Mr E via the postal service created some difficulties and 
delay because of his location. But I dont think it was unreasonable to be using that method 
of communication. Clearly emails were being exchanged between the parties at the time. But 
for this type of documentation, I dont think it would have been unusual, certainly in 2010, for 
the postal service to have been used. 
I take Mr Es point about the Dr Pepper shares that were already held in his IDIA, and why 
this could have been the case if a W-8BEN was required for holding US-listed shares. Again, 
the passage of time makes it difficult to determine how and why that situation arose. HSBC 
UK has suggested a change of policy, given that the shares had been on the account for a 
couple of years prior to the Kraft shares being applied. However, that strikes me as unlikely, 
and I think a more probable explanation is simply that it was an oversight  an error in the 
administration of the account. After all, the Dr Pepper shares were the only other US-listed 
stock held on the account.
I appreciate Mr E is unlikely to take any comfort from that and, indeed, he will feel it supports 
his views about HSBC UKs lack of care and attention. But even if there was a mistake with 
the Dr Pepper shares, it wouldnt have led to any inconvenience or loss to Mr E, nor would it 
mean that the situation with the Kraft shares was also definitely an error.   
Turning now to the trading limit issue, Im also not persuaded that HSBC UK acted incorrectly or unfairly in this respect. I note Mr Es lengthy and detailed explanation of his 
concerns about which entity is responsible for changing the limit. And I must agree with him 
to an extent that, although it was accepted in the CIFO decision that HSBC UK was 
responsible, its not been made entirely clear how the process works. 
But that said, I think the limit changes most likely come about by way of a liaison between 
the two entities (as was noted in the CIFO decision). Indeed, HSBC UK has said that Expat 
 with reference to HSBC Jersey  manage the limits because thats where the credit risk is. 
So, it seems reasonable to conclude that the process of setting and reducing/raising limits 
stems from actions on the part of both parties.
In saying this I know Mr E will take issue with my use of the term credit risk. He has said 
much about why he feels this is a misnomer and that there is in fact no credit risk in play with 
the functionality of the IDIA, because of the link to the Expat account. Hes given examples 
of where the trading limit is, for instance, at the default level of £10,000, but there is 
significantly more than this available in the linked Expat account. 
I appreciate his point, but I nevertheless think that, although it may be relatively limited, there 
is a credit risk issue here, as with any situation where deals are placed and settlement 
(payment) comes at a later point. This being so, I think its reasonable that HSBC UK has 
adopted an approach that seeks to reduce this in a manner that strikes me as fairly standard 
within the industry. If a facility remains unused for a period then it may be restricted, or 
removed entirely. But of course, as it appears has happened in Mr Es case, it can be 
reinstated if and when required.  
I note Mr Es point that this process is not explicitly set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. But, as the investigator stressed, its not unusual that some processes associated 
with operation of a service are not set out in the terms. I think the key point here is that 
HSBC UKs act of lowering a trading limit in circumstances where is hasnt been utilised for 
an extended period is a reasonable one.  
And in any event, Ive not seen that the issues of which party set Mr Es trading limit, or 
whether lowering it at any point was correct or reasonable, have led to any financial loss to 
him. Hes suggested that significant sums of compensation are due as a consequence of 
HSBC UKs actions  sums of £18,000 and £56,000 in relation to the Kraft shares issue, the 
trading limit issue and HSBC UKs failures of fiduciary duties. And monthly sums, for 
example, £1,000 for each month that his trading limit has been reduced.  
But I can only make a monetary award where Im satisfied a business has acted incorrectly 
or unfairly. And I dont believe thats the case here. I recognise Mr E will be very 
disappointed, but in relation to the specific issues Ive highlighted and considered, I dont find 
that HSBC UK has acted incorrectly or unfairly, beyond the minor issues it identified in 
relation to its handling of the Kraft shares issue. I note the £100 it offered in respect of that 
issue and consider it to be fair in the circumstances and understand it has already been paid 
to Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
James HarrisOmbudsman