DRN-4394995
The complaint
Mr S complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG)s handling of his 
buildings insurance claim. 
All references to AIG also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels strongly about whats happened. And I want to assure him Ive read 
and carefully considered everything hes provided to support his complaint. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues of this complaint, and 
not all the points raised. I dont mean this as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision 
isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S, and by AIG, to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Settlement
In response to our investigator, Mr S said he is not disputing the settlement for the 
indoor tennis court, so I have concentrated my comments on the area still in dispute 
 the glass house.
AIG provided photos taken around the time the policy was incepted in 2020. I can 
see from the photos there is evidence of the glass house being in a poor condition. 
The photos do show what looks to be signs of worn timber and missing glazing and 
guttering. Other photos, taken close up of the glass house, also show deterioration to 
the timber.
A glass house expert was engaged to provide detail for repairs. AIG has provided an 
email where the expert has commented on its structure. They said it was beyond any 
attempt at repair, and the deterioration and weakening of the structure, combined 
with storm damage, has resulted in its present state. 
They go on to add that there is extensive rot in the sills, mullions, head plates and 
glazing bar feet  and they also detail there is movement where the footings have 
failed. 
While this isnt presented in the form of a report, this is testimony based on 
observation from an expert. And I think from reviewing their comments it details the 
overall condition of the glasshouse was poor. 
Damage such as rot isnt something that happens over a short space of time  and is 
not usually the type of damage caused by a storm.
However, wind speeds reported at the property around February 2022 were strong 
enough to cause some damage  such as damage to the glazing.
AIG have detailed the work they are covering for the glasshouse  which is 100% of 
the glazing repairs, 50% of the timber repairs and also the cost of localised 
decoration work. Having compared this against the proposed work required by the 
glasshouse specialist Im satisfied this is fair. 
I acknowledge Mr Ss comments that he was initially offered a higher settlement by 
AIGs appointed adjuster, but having reviewed this breakdown, I think it sets out 
clearly why it has offered what it has in settlement  and what it has offered is fair.
Mr S has provided excerpts from a report provided by AIGs surveyor at the time the 
policy was incepted. This includes a heading of excluded structures or outbuildings at 
the property  under which there is nothing listed. Mr S says AIG didnt make him 
aware there was an issue with any of the structures and as such it felt they were an 
insurable risk. 
However, Im not persuaded by this. While there is no comment on its condition, 
photos show there were issues with the glass house around that time. And aside 
from this, Im not persuaded all the damage found to the glass house was caused by 
a storm or would have happened over the period of time between the inception of the 
policy and the time of the storm.
If Mr S feels he was poorly advised at the time of taking out the policy, this would be 
a separate matter and a complaint he may wish to raise with the appropriate parties.
The policy sets out in the terms and conditions the insured property must be 
maintained. This isnt uncommon and for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
AIGs proposed settlement of the claim is fair.
Delays
I appreciate this claim has been ongoing, and that Mr S feels strongly about what has 
happened. But there is always a level of inconvenience to be expected with a claim, 
and in some cases, they can take time to resolve. This doesnt always mean 
something has gone wrong or there is an avoidable delay.
I can see there have been some avoidable delays during the claim. Which AIG has 
acknowledged. There were delays regarding the initial surveyor who attended the 
property, and I can see there was a dispute with the initial costings. In addition to this 
I can see AIG have delayed providing responses to Mr S and he has had to chase on 
AIG several occasions for replies. 
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about what has happened and why he 
considers I should award a significant amount of compensation. But having reviewed 
everything available to me, Im satisfied £200 compensation sufficiently represents 
the inconvenience AIGs actions have caused and therefore I make no further award 
here. 
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right American International Group UK Limited (AIG) should pay Mr S £200 
compensationMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
To put things right I direct American International Group UK Limited (AIG) to do as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman