DRN-3230746
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wouldnt move the date of the 
upgrade cover on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had travel insurance through their bank account, the insurer was UKI. UKI told 
us the standard cover was free and Mr and Mrs R said they paid a separate premium of 
£138.96 for an upgrade to the standard cover to cover their age and medical conditions. The 
upgrade cover started on 28 June 2020 and ended on 27 June 2021.
Mr and Mrs R said they had booked two holidays for October 2020 and December 2020 but 
these were cancelled by the travel provider due to Covid-19. So on 5 October 2020 they 
asked UKI if it would move their upgrade cover to the following year but UKI refused.
Mr and Mrs R complained to us. They said they hadnt wanted a premium refund, just for the 
upgrade cover to be moved. The bank told them UKI would consider moving the date in 
exceptional circumstances, and Mr and Mrs R said the Covid-19 situation was exceptional 
and beyond their control.
Our investigator said UKI didnt need to move the date of the upgrade cover. He initially 
recommended UKI pay Mr and Mrs R a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for the 
upgrade cover from 5 October 2020 to 27 June 2021 on the basis that as from 5 October 
UKI was no longer carrying the risk of a claim being made while Mr and Mrs R were 
travelling. UKI disagreed. It said Mr and Mrs R hadnt asked it for a premium refund and 
anyway they had a holiday booked to begin on 9 May 2021 so it had been covering the risk 
for that holiday. Our investigator changed his recommendation to be that UKI didnt need to 
refund any part of the premium.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed and wanted an ombudsmen decision. They said due to Covid-19 
they werent able to travel at all so UKI hadnt provided any cover under that policy upgrade 
which had now expired. They had renewed the upgrade for 2021/2022 to cover their 
rescheduled holidays and said if we didnt think a pro-rata refund was fair UKI should 
consider an extension to the renewed upgrade.
What I provisionally decided - and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint but for 
different reasons than our investigator had given. I said:
Moving the period of the upgraded insurance cover
I understand why Mr and Mrs R wanted UKI to move the date of the upgrade cover to the 
following year but UKI didnt need to do that. Its a business decision for UKI as to who they 
want to insure, on what terms and over what period. So I cant tell UKI that it must insure 
Mr and Mrs R for a different period than it offered the upgrade for as that would be making a 
business decision on its behalf, which I dont have the power to do. Mr and Mrs R have now 
renewed their upgrade with UKI for 2021/2022, but that doesnt alter that I cant tell UKI it 
must insure them at a later date.
Premium refund
Although Mr and Mrs R didnt initially ask UKI for a premium refund our investigator 
considered that issue as the relevant policy upgrade period had ended when he considered 
the complaint. UKI says it doesnt need to provide a refund and as Mr and Mrs R would now 
like the option of a refund Ive made a decision on the issue.
Mr and Mrs R never cancelled their upgrade to the policy during the period 28 June 2020 to 
27 June 2021. But they believe theyve never had the benefit of the upgrade because they 
couldnt go on the holidays theyd planned for that period. So Ive taken it that they would 
have wanted to cancel the upgrade on the date the May 2021 holiday was cancelled. 
Although they havent provided us with the date that holiday was cancelled it must have 
been after 5 October 2020 as thats the date they complained to us and they were still 
hoping to go on the May 2021 holiday then. Whether or not they formally cancelled the 
upgrade wouldnt alter the outcome of my decision below.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs R held have a cooling off period of 
up to 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This 
is called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr and Mrs R didnt cancel their travel insurance upgrade within 14 days. And, under 
industry rules, even if they had cancelled the upgrade within 14 days, they wouldnt be 
entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because UKI covered the risk of them 
cancelling the upcoming trips for reasons that were covered under the upgrade during that 
time.
The policy terms and conditionsThe terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs insurance policy with UKI outline their 
cancellation rights for the upgrade under the contract. These say:
The account holder can cancel any upgrades or endorsements at any time by telling 
us either over the phone or in writing. We will not refund any premium unless the 
account holder cancels the relevant upgrade or endorsement within 14 days from the 
date of purchase or renewal or the date of receiving the relevant documents or 
renewal notice, whichever is the later, and so long as no insured person has travelled 
or made a claim.
Mr and Mrs Rs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Rs upgrade was purchased on or 
before or before 28 June 2020 and if they had cancelled it would have been after 5 October 
2020, which was more than 14 days after they bought the upgrade.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs are entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with UKI.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs planned trips, and therefore the need for the upgrade to the 
insurance policy, changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask UKI to do anything further, taking into 
account the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs trips were cancelled due to Covid-19 but this didnt make it 
impossible for Mr and Mrs Rs contract with UKI to be performed. Cover under the upgrade 
began on its start date, 28 June 2020.
Mr and Mrs Rs werent just insured for their dates of travel. The price set by UKI also 
covered Mr and Mrs Rs for cancellation cover from the upgrade start date. So, the premium 
Mr and Mrs R paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holidays due to any of a 
number of listed events insured under the policy.
I understand that Mr and Mrs R purchased their upgrade to the policy on or about 28 June 
2020. I think its also important to take into account that Covid-19 was already a known event 
when the upgrade to the policy was purchased. The Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) had advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020 
as a response to Covid-19. So I think Mr and Mrs R would have been aware that their trips 
may be cancelled due to Covid-19 and that they may not have full use of the upgrade.
I cant fairly say that Covid-19 and the risk of needing to cancel their trips as a result of 
Covid-19 was unexpected or unforeseeable at this point. I therefore think Mr and Mrs R took 
out the upgrade with the knowledge they may not have full use of it in the event their trips 
had to be cancelled due to Covid-19.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask UKI to step outside of industry guidelines or 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So I wont be asking UKI to provide any premium 
refund.
Mr and Mrs R asked that if I consider UKI doesnt have to refund the premium that it extend 
their renewed upgrade to the policy. Mr and Mrs R will need to raise that separate matter with UKI direct to see if its busines decision has changed for future upgrades.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said it had no further comments. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept my provisional decision. In 
summary they said:
Id said they hadnt cancelled the upgrade cover within the first 14 days but they had 
no reason to as no one knew how serious Covid-19 would be. They didnt cancel the 
upgrade after that time as they didnt know the holidays would be cancelled and they 
had assumed any cancellations would be covered. They had renewed the upgrade 
cover for June 2021 because UKI now insured Covid-19 matters so they thought 
there was no reason for UKI not to cover Covid-19 from the start.
The government had banned all travel so they shouldnt be expected to pay for travel 
that they werent allowed to do by law which should make the policy void.
Although they took out the upgrade cover in June 2020 knowing in March 2020 there 
were restrictions with travel they didnt know there was going to be a total ban 
against travel. They thought it could be argued that UKI took the policy premium 
knowing about Covid-19 and it should have a responsibility to warn policyholders that 
they may not be covered for cancellations due to Covid-19.
UKI said it would move the upgrade cover only in exceptional circumstances and 
they queried how the Covid-19 circumstances couldnt be exceptional. They thought 
Id said UKI could use those exceptional circumstances not to refund the premium or 
move the upgrade cover which didnt seem fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered Mr and Mrs Rs full responses, which Ive summarised above. Their 
responses suggest that they claimed on the policy for cancellation of at least one their trips 
and UKI didnt cover the claim. If thats so and they are unhappy the claim wasnt covered 
they can complain to UKI and ultimately to us about the claim decline. UKIs decline of a 
claim isnt a reason for it to refund the policy premium, it was still insuring Mr and Mrs R for 
cancellation for insured events under the policy. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs R didnt cancel their policy upgrade within the first 14 days. 
But, as Ive explained above, because they didnt cancel the upgrade within that time they 
arent entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and conditions of the contract with 
UKI.
Ive also explained why I thought UKI acted fairly and reasonably in not refunding any 
premium and that was taking into account the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19 for both Mr and Mrs R and UKI. Mr and Mrs Rs response hasnt 
changed my mind about that. They would have been able to travel when there were no 
government restrictions on travel and there was cover for cancellation of the trips for insured 
events throughout the insured period. Theres no basis on which I can fairly say the policy 
should be void. 
Mr and Mrs R told us the bank said UKI would consider moving the date of the upgrade 
cover in exceptional circumstances. In my experience of travel insurances cases I think its 
likely UKI would have meant it would consider where an individual had their own exceptional circumstances, rather than as here the exceptional circumstances of Covid-19 thats been 
shared by all. As Ive said, I cant tell UKI that it must move their upgrade cover to a later 
date.
For the reasons Ive given above Im satisfied that UKI doesnt need to take any further 
action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman