DRN-1651501
Complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) didnt do enough to 
prevent him from excessive gambling on his credit card and bank account.
Background
Mr J has a credit card and current account with BOS and over a two week period he made 
several transactions to a betting company. Mr J feels that BOS didnt undertake sufficient 
checks to prevent him from making these transactions at a time when he had been drinking, 
suffering from stress and had a gambling addiction. Mr J says he contacted BOS to explain 
his situation but they were unsympathetic to his situation. He was also disappointed BOS 
didnt send him any text alerts which might have stopped him going ahead with the betting 
transactions. 
BOS says that while Mr J did contact them, this was after the transactions had been made 
from the account and following this they did block further payments to the betting company. 
BOS say that Mr J had previously made payments from his credit card and bank account to 
this betting company and as a result payments to the same business wasnt  considered 
suspicious or give reason to contact Mr J.
Mr J disagreed and would like BOS to compensate him as a result of their failure to protect 
him.
The matter was referred to this service and the investigator looked at the evidence available 
but didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. He was satisfied BOS took appropriate action to prevent 
further payments to the betting company after being informed of his gambling problems. The 
investigator says Mr J had previously authorised a payment to the betting company following 
an alert from BOS, so it wasnt likely BOS would think payments to the same business was 
potentially fraudulent or suspicious.
Mr J was unhappy with this and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering this case I have looked at whether BOS could have done more before Mr 
J made the payments to the betting company from his bank and credit card accounts.
Mr J says that the payments were out of character and BOS should have been aware of this 
and not allowed him to make the payments to the betting company. BOS, like most banks, 
will have security procedures to alert them of potential fraud and unusual transactions. In this 
case Mr J had previously made payments to the same betting company and he says he received a text alert on an earlier occasion from BOS and he authorised the payment as 
genuine on that occasion.
As a result, I am satisfied that BOS wouldnt have identified the subsequent payments Mr J 
made to the same betting company as suspicious or potentially fraudulent.
It is worth mentioning from Mr Js bank and credit card statements I have seen, these show 
his accounts had been operating satisfactorily - so I am satisfied the account operation didnt 
indicate Mr J had gambling issues or a potential fraud was taking place.
BOS, like all banks, carry out security checks from time to time but is not their responsibility, 
or any other bank, to tell customers what to spend their money on and gambling is a 
legitimate expense.
From the information I have seen, Mr J contacted BOS after his last payment to the betting 
company and explained he had a gambling problem, at which point BOS took action by 
stopping further transactions from his credit card and bank account to the betting company, 
which is what I would expect to see.
Mr J says a text alert from BOS could have prevented him carrying out the transactions but 
this isnt something that can be demonstrated or evidenced and isnt consistent with Mr Js 
previous actions when he was alerted by text from BOS, following a payment to the same 
betting company. It follows, I can only make my decision based on the evidence made 
available to me.
I am sorry to hear that Mr J is having issues with stress and anxiety and has a gambling 
addiction and it is good to see that he has taken steps to address this with an appropriate 
support group.
I know Mr J wont be happy with my decision, but I wont be asking anymore of BOS here.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman