DRN-3859350
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited will not honour a pension value which it says it 
quoted in error.
What happened
Mr W has a with-profits pension that includes a guaranteed minimum pension. The pension 
was previously held with another provider. I understand this transferred to ReAssure in 2017. 
The maturity date of the pension was in April 2022.
In February 2022 Mr W asked ReAssure for information about his policy as he had not 
received information via post for several years. It transpired that, when the pension had 
moved to ReAssure previously, Mr Ws postcode had been omitted from the migrated 
information. And after a letter had been returned undelivered in May 2019, ReAssure had 
stopped sending letters by post until it could confirm and verify his address. Following this 
request, the address details were updated.
On 25 February 2022, ReAssure sent Mr W a policy information sheet. This said that the 
guaranteed annual pension was £3,342. It also said that the regular bonuses to date were 
£4,048.97, meaning the total annual annuity amount was £7,390.97 per year.
On 11 March 2022, ReAssure sent Mr W a summary of his retirement options, with the 
maturity date of his policy approaching. This said that the annual income he could receive 
under the ReAssure policy was £6,041.28.
Mr W queried this with ReAssure as the figure was different to what hed previously been 
quoted. ReAssure confirmed in a letter on 31 March 2022 that the figure of £6,041.28 per 
annum was correct. It said that the bonus value quoted in its letter of 25 February 2022 was 
incorrect and the correct value of the regular bonusses applied was £2,699.28. ReAssure 
apologised for this error. I understand Mr W remained unhappy with this explanation and a 
complaint was logged.
On 8 April 2022 ReAssure sent Mr W a further pack as hed indicated he was interested in 
taking an annuity. This included a further annuity quote, confirming the annual pension to be 
£6,041.28.
ReAssure agreed, as it had said previously, that an error had been made in the information 
sent to Mr W in February 2022. It also said that the problems with sending documents via 
post were due to the postcode not being included in the information transferred from the 
original provider. It explained its attempts to verify this address had been unsuccessful, after 
post had been returned undelivered, until Mr W confirmed his address in February 2022. It 
apologised and offered Mr W £300 to address the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W did not accept this offer and referred his complaint to our service as he felt ReAssure 
should be required to honour what it had told him previously about the pension he could 
receive, as once a bonus was added to the account it couldnt be taken away.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but thought ReAssures offer was fair and 
that it didnt need to take any further action. She acknowledged that the information provided 
was incorrect. But she didnt think the incorrectly quoted figure had been added to the 
account as a bonus. She acknowledged it wouldve been frustrating for Mr W to find hed 
been given incorrect information. But she felt the £300 ReAssure had offered was fair.
Mr W did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said 
he was entitled to rely on the information ReAssure had provided. And he was unhappy that 
it had stopped writing to him because of the issue with his address. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starting with ReAssure ceasing written correspondence, it has said that it received post 
returned as undelivered. Given the sensitive nature of the information it was regularly 
providing to Mr W, when this happened, I think it was reasonable for it to want to make sure 
the information was secure. So, until ReAssure could verify his address, I think it was 
reasonable not to send any further correspondence to Mr W. 
ReAssure says its attempts at verifying Mr Ws address were unsuccessful until he 
confirmed this information in 2022. Mr W doesnt think it did enough and it couldve obtained 
his postcode from a simple online search. But obtaining and verifying customer information 
are not one and the same. It is possible that ReAssure could have done more here  such 
as contacting Mr W directly using any other contact information it held. But ultimately, I dont 
think this has caused a loss as information about the pension was still available on request.
Turning to Mr Ws main concern, ReAssure did provide Mr W with conflicting figures about 
the bonuses accrued to date on his policy. And Mr W says he should be entitled to rely on 
the higher of these figures as being accurate and receive the equivalent pension. But I dont 
agree. Where an error has been made by the business, we look at the effect of this. And 
would generally look to put consumers, as close as possible, into the position they would 
have been in but for the error. But where incorrect information has been given, that doesnt 
mean that the business should be bound by this
ReAssure has said incorrect information has been given here. And, based on the information 
Ive seen, I think on balance this is what has happened.
Ive seen a copy of the yearly pension review document sent to Mr W in April 2019  the last 
summary before ReAssure stopped writing to him. This set out the guaranteed pension as 
being £3,342. The existing bonusses to that point were £2,632.42 and the 2018 bonus 
amount was £16.71. The summary confirmed therefore that the total pension at that time 
was £5,991.13. The document gave an estimate of what the pension might be at the maturity 
date in April 2022. And it estimated the annual income could be around £6,070, indicating it 
didnt think the bonuses were likely to increase significantly in the 3 years until the pension 
reached maturity.
The total pension that ReAssure says Mr W is entitled to is £6,041.28. And that includes 
bonuses of £2,699.28. These are significantly closer to the 2019 estimate of what the 
pension was likely to provide than those ReAssure says was quoted in error and which Mr W 
is asking it to honour. And on balance I dont think the bonuses that wouldve been required 
for the policy to increase in value to £7,390.97, which again were not anticipated in 2019, are likely to have been accrued and added. Based on the information available and what I know 
about similar policies with ReAssure and market conditions more generally, I think the 
figures of £6,041.28, and bonuses of £2,632.42 are most likely accurate. 
Mr W says once a bonus has been added to his pension it cant be taken away. But I dont 
think the bonus figure of £4,048.97 was added to his pension. Rather I think it has been 
quoted in error.
As a result, I cant fairly require ReAssure to honour the amount quoted in error as this isnt 
something that I think Mr W was ever entitled to receive.
ReAssure providing Mr W with this incorrect information led him to think hed be receiving a 
higher amount that he was entitled to. So, when the error was discovered and explained, this 
led to a loss of expectation for Mr W. I dont doubt this wouldve been frustrating and 
upsetting. And ReAssure has acknowledged that it caused this upset. But in the 
circumstances, I think the £300 ReAssure has offered to address this is fair and reasonable. 
So, while I know Mr W feels strongly about this and that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to him, I dont intend to require ReAssure to do anything more.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
I understand it previously sent Mr W a cheque for this amount. Mr W indicated that cheque 
has not been cashed. If that is the case ReAssure Limited should therefore pay him the £300 
previously offered. Alternatively, if the cheque has been cashed, it doesnt need to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman