DRN-3194723
The complaint
Ms A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc has gave her wrong information and poor
customer service.
Ms A is represented by her daughter in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Ms A herself.
What happened
Ms A suffered difficulties making her repayments to her Sainsburys credit card which
resulted in a default being registered to her account. After Ms A contacted them and
explained her circumstances, the default was removed but Ms A says that Sainsburys later
reapplied the default.
Ms A says she wanted her daughter to take control of her account. She says her daughter
sent a copy of a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPOA) to Sainsburys three times but
Sainsburys said they didnt receive the copy in January and the recent ones werent to
Sainsburys standards.
Ms A says she has spoken to various call handlers who had told her the LPOA had been
accepted but then she received a letter informing her that it hadnt been accepted. Ms A also
says that she requested income and expenditure forms to be sent out and tried to set up a
repayment plan but hadnt been able to when she tried.
Ms A says she doesnt object to the default being registered as she was told that interest
and charges would stop as a result of the default, but she says she has received statements
and letters which show interest and charges.
Ms A says she and her daughter has spent many hours on the phone to Sainsburys, only to
be told different things each time. Ms A says she has completed a budget planner with
Sainsburys and is prepared to pay £100 a month to reduce the outstanding balance. Ms A
made a complaint to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys upheld Ms As complaint. They said that they had advised the default was
reapplied, but due to the process for an account to default, they had to allow the account to
default again, which has caused further delays in her being able to set up the payment plan
for £100. Sainsburys asked Ms A to contact their collections team to set up the repayment
plan. Sainsburys also said they have now been able to set up the LPOA on the system but
were previously unable to do so because the previous LPOA sent did not meet their
requirements. In recognition of the delays and poor customer service, Sainsburys offered
Ms A £80 compensation.
Ms A brought her complaint to our service. Ms A says she received a phone call from a debt
management company and subsequent letters informing her that they will now be
responsible for collecting the debt.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that in relation to the LPOA
registration that was sent, the copy sent in January had been uncertified, but he was
satisfied that this wasnt received by Sainsburys. Our investigator said that Sainsburys had
wrote to Ms A, explaining that the copy had to be certified. He said that while Sainsburys
could have done more earlier on to help Ms A, they had followed their process by needing a
certified copy of the LPOA and had added Ms As daughter on the system as a third party
authority, so she could speak to Sainsburys collections team on her behalf.
Our investigator acknowledged that Ms A had been told incorrect information about the
default being applied but felt the compensation that Ms A was offered was fair in the
circumstances. He said although Ms A felt the letters that Sainsburys sent were strongly
worded, Sainsburys had to send these letters in a standard format in line with regulations.
Our investigator said that since the default was first applied in January 2020, interest and
charges had been refunded if they had been charged, which evidenced that Sainsburys
showed forbearance before transferring the debt to a third party company. In relation to Ms A
not receiving the income and expenditure forms, our investigator said that he was persuaded
that Sainsburys had sent these forms but he couldnt guarantee Ms A received these, but he
didnt think this was too important as Sainsburys had offered to go through this on the
phone.
Our investigator also said that Sainsburys were entitled to transfer the debt to a third party
company and although this came as a shock to Ms A, this was a result of her not maintaining
the £100 a month agreement. Ms A had acknowledged she was unable to maintain this
because of health reasons but our investigator said that Sainsburys werent aware of this
and they acted in line with their terms and conditions. He summarised that due to the wrong
information being given, that the compensation that Ms A was offered by Sainsburys was
fair.
Ms A asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. She said that she couldnt have
discussed an arrangement over the phone as she has hearing difficulties and it would have
been ridiculous to relay this information to her daughter. She said costs were incurred
sending the LPOA by recorded delivery three times and she also incurred phone call costs.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has made a number of points to both Sainsburys and this service and Ive considered
and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Both parties dont agree on the events of the complaint, so Ive looked at all of the
information available to me in order to decide what is likely to have happened.
Ive thought about what Ms A has said about the registration of the LPOA. I asked
Sainsburys if they could forward me the phone call of when this was originally discussed.
On this call Ms A tells the call handler that her daughter is LPOA and that she will be
sending in a letter to register this so her daughter can speak to Sainsburys on her behalf.
The call handler asks Ms A have you been given the correct information to send in the
details of the power of attorney. Ms A confirms the address to send the documents. The call 
handler explains that in the meantime he can register Ms As daughter as a third party on the account so she can speak to Sainsburys collections team before the LPOA has been 
registered.
Ive also listened to a call from May 2020, when Ms A again speaks to Sainsburys. Ms A
asks Sainsburys can I set up a plan now. So Im satisfied that she was trying to make a
payment arrangement in May 2020 and she was comfortable talking to Sainsburys at this
point. Ms A explains that her daughter helps her with her finances so the call handler
suggests that once Ms A talks to her daughter then they could speak over the phone once
you have the details in hand. Ms A replies that would be good.
Im persuaded that there has been a misunderstanding on these phone calls which have led
to some of the delays and Ill explain why. The call handler who spoke with Ms A about the
LPOA asked if Ms A knew the correct information to send for the LPOA. As Ms A indicated
that she was going to send a letter to Sainsburys about this and had confirmed the address,
Im persuaded the call handler presumed that Ms A already knew what to include with her
letter. This would likely be the reason why it wasnt explained at this point that the LPOA
needed to be certified or the registration form needed to be completed.
Im persuaded that Sainsburys didnt receive the first copy of the LPOA which Ms As
daughter sent. I asked Ms A if she could provide the tracking number for this as she had said
the three LPOA were sent to Sainsburys by recorded delivery. Unfortunately, as it was a
while ago since these were sent, she didnt have a copy of the tracking numbers, so I was
unable to evidence this to Sainsburys who said they had never received the copy sent in
January 2020. But Im satisfied they received the copy in May and Ill explain why.
Ive seen Sainsburys system notes, from 19 May 2020, which confirm they received the
LPOA but it wasnt certified, so they sent her a letter on the same day informing Ms A that it
needed to be certified. I can confirm from the system notes that the LPOA was set up on 29
June 2020. Ive noted the strength of feeling that Ms A has regarding how long it took to set
up the LPOA and the number of calls Ms A and her daughter made regarding this matter and
the time spent on the phone discussing this, but as Im satisfied Sainsburys didnt receive
the first copy which Ms A sent and the second copy was uncertified, then Im persuaded that
there wasnt a significant delay once Sainsburys received the third copy.
Ive considered what Ms A has said about the income and expenditure form. The call handler
said he would send an income and expenditure form out to her. Ms A also says that as she
has hearing difficulties it would be impractical for her to complete this information over the
phone or relay this information to her daughter and then to Sainsburys. But as the call
handler previously explained to Ms A that the third party authorisation had been set up and
that Ms As daughter couldve spoken to the collections team on her behalf then Im satisfied
that Ms A did not need to speak directly to Sainsburys to set up the repayment plan, as her
daughter could have done this from mid-January when the third party authorisation was set
up.
I can see that Ms As daughter contacted Sainsburys on 14 May 2020 to set up a repayment
plan. Ms As daughter explained that Ms A had been told she had a default registered but
the call handler said that there was no default on the account. This is why the repayment
wasnt set up on this call at this time so the discrepancy could be investigated.
Next Ive thought about what Ms A has said about the letters she received from Sainsburys
and how they asked a third party debt collection company to take over the debt. In terms of
the letters that Ms A received informing her that she had outstanding sums due and a default
could be applied, I appreciate that these letters can be frightening to receive. But
Sainsburys have to follow the regulations by sending these letters in a certain format using
specific language. So although Ms A feels these letters were threatening, I cant saySainsburys didnt follow the correct process by sending these letters.
Ms A has said the first thing she heard about the debt being taken over by a third party is
when they rang her. She believes that she should have received a letter from Sainsburys
explaining what was happening. I asked Sainsburys about their process for passing debt to
a third party. They said it wasnt their procedure to send a letter from themselves as the third
party would communicate this with the customer. As our investigator has previously
explained to Ms A, our service isnt able to tell a business how to run their processes, so I
cant say that Sainsburys were unfair by passing the debt to a third party. As our investigator
also highlighted to Ms A, the credit agreement (section 22.2) confirms that they may transfer
the rights to another party.
Ms A has concerns that interest and charges have been added despite the default being
registered. Ive looked into this and can confirm that although interest and charges were
added to the account, they have since been removed. Sainsburys have said this was
because the repayment plan had been broken, but the refunds now show as adjustments on
her statements, as evidenced on her December 2020 statement. So Im satisfied that Ms A
isnt expected to pay any interest or charges due to the default moving forward as long as a
new payment plan is maintained.
Ms A has said that she and her daughter had incurred costs through lengthy phone times. I
asked Sainsburys if they would be willing to refund these costs. Sainsburys said that their
telephone numbers were freephone numbers. Ms A says she rang the telephone numbers
on the letters. The letters which were provided show the telephone numbers start with 0800
and 0808, so Im persuaded that these calls would have been free to call.
Ive thought about what Sainsburys have told Ms A about the default. Im satisfied that she
was given incorrect information here. Ms A was told that the default had already been
applied, when it hadnt been. Im persuaded that this incorrect information will have
inconvenienced Ms A. So what I would expect to happen here is for Sainsburys to
apologise, recognise the impact this would have had on Ms A and to compensate her for
incorrect information. Im persuaded that this is what Sainsburys have done. Sainsburys
paid Ms A £80 for time taken to respond to her concerns (£30) and for the incorrect
information (£50).
In summary, Im persuaded that there were misunderstandings which delayed the LPOA
being set up and incorrect information delayed a repayment plan being set up. Sainsburys
have paid £80 to compensate Ms A. I know that Ms A feels this amount should be higher.
But Im persuaded this amount is fair as this is broadly in line with what I would have
awarded Ms A if Sainsburys had not upheld her complaint for incorrect information being
given and the delays. So it follows I dont intend to ask Sainsburys to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Sainsburys accepted my provisional decision. Ms A didnt respond to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decisionI do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman