DRN-3546004
The complaint
Miss S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) lost a Universal Serial 
Bus (USB) stick, which contained her personal data.
What happened
Miss S wrote to M&S regarding a transaction she made with a supermarket and enclosed a 
USB stick with her letter as evidence. Miss S wrote a further letter to M&S with a letter dated 
29 January 2022, to let them know the transaction issue had been resolved and she asked 
M&S to return the USB stick to her within 14 days.
Miss S wrote M&S another letter, dated 21 February, as she had not received her USB stick. 
Miss S made a complaint to M&S.
M&S said that they had sent the USB stick to Miss S on 25 November 2021 by second class 
mail to her registered address. M&S said they received Miss Ss letter dated 29 January and 
they had added notes to their system, but they should have at least sent her an 
acknowledgement of her letter. To apologise for this, M&S credited her credit card with £75. 
Miss S brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ss complaint. She said she was satisfied that they sent 
Miss S her USB stick on 25 November 2021, however, it seemed it had been lost in the post. 
She said she couldnt agree that M&S was responsible for this. Our investigator said the £75 
that M&S paid Miss S was fair for the delays in responding to her letter.
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that she believed a total 
of £200 compensation was fair and reasonable to reflect her concerns about the loss of her 
personal data, hardware and consequential loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Miss S from the outset that Im unable to tell M&S how they should send post to their 
customers  even if their customers send them post which has been tracked, as this is a 
business decision for M&S to make. But I will be looking at the evidence to see if M&S did 
post her USB stick to her.
Ive looked at M&Ss system notes to see if they support M&Ss claims that they sent the 
USB stick to Miss S and Im satisfied that they do. I say this because I can see that on 25 
November 2021, a member of staff added the following notes to their system letter sent to 
confirm refund and arranged for USB stick to be returned to cust(omer). On the same day, 
another staff member added the following note USB stick returned to customer.
I asked M&S why the USB stick wasnt sent with the letter confirming the refund and M&S 
told me that when post is received by them, mail is passed to the relevant area digitally to be 
responded to. The letter regarding her refund was sent by their chargebacks and disputes 
team and as not all of their staff are working in the office it would not have been possible to 
send the USB stick with the letter, so the adviser who sent Miss S the refund letter arranged 
for M&Ss admin team, who are based in the office to return her USB stick. So Im satisfied 
this is a reasonable explanation of why everything wasnt in one envelope. 
I also asked M&S to send me Miss Ss address how it shows on their systems, to ensure 
that they sent the USB stick to the correct address. I can confirm that the address matched 
with the details that Miss S provided to our service. So Im satisfied that M&S did send the 
USB stick to Miss S on 25 November 2021. As M&S sent the USB stick to the correct 
address, I cant hold them responsible for any issues with the postal system. So I cant agree 
with Miss S that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect her concerns about the 
loss of her personal data, hardware and consequential loss, as Im not satisfied M&S are 
responsible for the loss of her hardware here for the reasons Ive already given.
Ive considered if the £75 compensation that M&S have paid Miss S for not responding to 
her letter on 29 January 2022 is fair. While M&S would have been aware that they had 
already sent Miss Ss USB stick to her over two months earlier, I would expect them to at 
least acknowledge the letter, explaining that they had already sent her USB stick back to 
her, especially as Miss S had sent clear instructions with a timeframe of 14 days. 
So when Miss S did not receive a response (or her USB stick) back within 14 days, Im 
persuaded this would have been distressing for her. She was then inconvenienced by having 
to write M&S another letter. So what I would expect M&S to do here is to apologise for not 
writing back to her, recognise the impact that this would have caused her and to compensate 
her accordingly. Im satisfied that this is what M&S did here. I say this because they credited 
her account with £75 and apologised to her. Im satisfied the compensation M&S awarded 
Miss S is fair, as it would be in line with what I would have awarded Miss S had they not 
upheld this part of her complaint. So it follows I do not require M&S to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman