DRN-3862795
The complaint
Ms J complains through her representative of irresponsible lending by Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
What happened
Everyday provided Mrs J with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount Term Monthly 
instalmentWhen repaid
Loan 1 11/04/2018 £3,000 24 months £276.38 Settled by 
loan 2
Loan 2 26/4/2019 £5,000 36 months £356.35 1/6/2019
Ms J repaid loan 1 with loan 2, and repaid that loan early, within five weeks. She complained 
through her representative that she couldnt afford the loans. She said she had multiple 
payday loans and got into further debt. She has supplied copies of her bank statements at 
the time both loans were provided.
Everyday said that it carried out proportionate eligibility checks. These included obtaining 
and reviewing up to two months bank statements from the customer's primary bank 
account, conducting a credit search, and carrying out a job check. To assess living expenses 
it used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. It said that both loans provided were 
affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that Ms Js total 
monthly credit repayments for loans 1 and 2 represented a significant proportion of her 
income. So she said that it was unlikely that Ms J would have been able to sustainably meet 
the repayments for the loan.
Everyday disagreed, saying that there are no rules that state what a significant percentage 
of repayments to income is or that that should be a reason not to grant lending.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that whilst I didnt think that Everyday had made a 
fair lending decision in respect of loan 1, Ms Js circumstances had changed by the time she 
made the application for loan 2. So I thought that Everyday had made a fair lending decision 
in respect of loan 2.
Neither party commented on my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms J 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms J would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Js ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Ms J undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms J. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
Ms J had a number of recent payday loans that didnt appear on her record. Everyday took 
account of those. This loan was for consolidation, mostly of those loans. Ive taken 
Everydays figures from its audit. Where it calculates that for revolving credit accounts (e.g. Credit Cards, Mail order accounts) Ms J should have been paying 3% of the balances each 
month, I have calculated them at 5%. Everyday will be aware of our approach which is to 
allow for those balances to be repaid in a reasonable time period. This adds about £75 to the 
payments for the debts not consolidated by this loan. 
Everyday assessed that Ms Js existing debt repayments amounted to about £1,213. The 
loan was intended to clear the recent loans, freeing up around £415 a month. Considering 
Ms Js bank statements at the time of this loan application and at the time of loan 2, and the 
respective credit reports, I think that she did clear those loans. But, with the new loan 
instalment, and the additional £75, her debts would still have been around £1,074 a month, 
which is about 47-48% of her assessed income of £2,257. Whilst I agree that the rules didnt 
specify what a significant percentage amount of repayments to income is, our approach is 
that a figure over 25% could indicate that the loan was unaffordable. And I think it 
reasonable to say that the ratio here was high and, as consequence, it was likely that the 
loan was unaffordable. 
I wouldnt say that alone should be a reason not to grant lending, that depends on the other 
circumstances of the case. Here Miss J was assessed at having a disposable income of 
around £188 after paying the new loan instalment. However taking into account the further 
£75 Ive noted, I think that this wasnt sufficient. I think that, at the time of providing this loan 
it was unlikely to be affordable. So I dont think Everyday made a fair lending decision
loan 2
I think the position was different for Ms J at the time of applying for this loan. First of all her 
credit commitments had gone down significantly. Out of five credit cards she had managed 
to reduce the balances on four, in particular a balance that was marked as in default had 
reduced from £1,074 to £319. As Ive noted above, Ms J had cleared her previous payday 
loans, though had taken out two new ones, which she presumably intended to pay off. From 
her bank statements, whilst she did go overdrawn, this was not by very much (at the time of 
the credit report it was -£36).
Everyday assessed Ms Js credit commitments (including loan 1) at around £643. Taking 
account, as I did for loan 1, of additional payments for the credit cards and a mail order 
account, I have added a further £60. In consolidating loan 1 and accounting for the new loan 
instalments her new credit commitments represented about 31% of her assessed income of 
£2,539. 
This was still high but considerably less than before. And her disposable income would have 
been about £712. Taking account of the likelihood that she would have been able to clear 
her two loans (total monthly instalments £203), and her having been able to reduce her other 
debts I think this loan was affordable. So I think Everyday made a fair lending decision.
As neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings, I remain persuaded by 
those findings. They are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Ms J has had the capital payment in respect of loan 1, so its fair that she should repay 
this. So far as loan 1 is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to that loan. 
Treat any payments made by Ms J as payments towards the capital amount. If Ms J has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Ms J
Once any capital balance is cleared, remove any adverse information, if 
appropriate, about loan 1 from Ms Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and to require Everyday Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman