DRN-3020715
Complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) policy with mortgage in the 1980s. 
The fact PPI was mis-sold isnt disputed, but Mr C questions whether the redress he 
received from Halifax has been calculated correctly and he says he had to employ a third-
party to help recover the money he was due, at further expense to him.
Background
I see that one of our adjudicators provided Mr C with a view about this complaint. They said 
that they didnt think we should uphold the complaint. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has come to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint.
Broadly, Mr C raised the following complaint points:
He said Halifax had always denied he ever had PPI
He said he was forced to employ a claims company to bring his claim, which was 
expensive
He said tax was deducted from the PPI refund [and this isnt fair].
 
I acknowledge Mr C feels strongly about his complaint. However, as our adjudicator 
comprehensively explained, I dont believe he has fully understood some of the issues 
apparent in what happened. Ill therefore try to explain them more carefully.
To begin with, Ive seen no evidence that Halifax denied Mr C ever had PPI, when he first 
raised a complaint. We do sometimes see cases where businesses cant find old policies 
because records are no longer available. And we do also sometimes see that such policies 
are later found when consumers present more information or where the business re-looks 
over all the records it has. Naturally, this can cause anxiety and suspicion in consumers.
However, theres no evidence of this happening here. What looks to have occurred is that Mr 
C originally complained about the PPI and Halifax wrote back to him in March 2014 saying 
he did have a PPI policy with his mortgage, but it believed it had been sold correctly to him. 
So, Halifax didnt say there was no PPI and it even provided his policy number, in that same 
letter, ending in 811.
There is nothing unusual about this in my experience. Many mortgage PPI policies were not 
mis-sold and Halifax defending its sale isnt uncommon either.
Where I think Halifax could have been clearer is in 2020, when it wrote to Mr C to say it had 
carried out another review of his PPI sale. Admittedly, it did say at that point that hed 
previously been told he didnt have PPI. Obviously this was wrong, because we know Halifax 
had already said there was PPI with his mortgage and of course, it had supplied Mr C with 
the policy number, as Ive described above.
Nevertheless, none of this really matters since Halifax agreed to uphold the original 
complaint in full about the mis-sale of the PPI, even though it had said, back in 2014, that the 
policy sale was in accordance with the rules. Halifax said it would pay all the money back for 
all the premiums, with interest. In my view, the final figure was calculated in accordance with 
the approach we expect to see. Halifax offered the correct amount.
The bottom line here is that I can only speculate why Halifax changed its mind several years 
after saying it wasnt going to uphold Mr Cs complaint in the first place. Sometimes 
businesses make commercial or other decisions about certain policies sold in certain years. 
But Mr C implies he needed to engage a claims management company to bring this change 
in outcome about. I dont know if thats right, although his original complaint was investigated 
by Halifax and he could have brought a complaint to our Service if he still wasnt happy. 
So, Im afraid the decision about using a claims management company was for Mr C himself 
to make. He says he was charged 65% of the redress he eventually received. Again, I dont 
know if thats true, but Im very surprised to hear about that level of charge and there are 
separate complaints procedures for consumers who want to make complaints about such 
companies; details can be found on our website.
Finally, our adjudicator previously explained that income tax is deducted from part of these 
awards at the standard rate. This is the default position but Mr C can try to claim this back 
as set out in the Halifax letter he was sent on 21 December 2020 which says,  if we have 
deducted more tax than you have to pay you may be able to reclaim all or some of the tax 
deducted from [HMRC].
This is my final decision and I trust this explains the situation to Mr C. He isnt due anything 
else Im afraid.
Final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman