DRN-3493347
The complaint
Mr L complains through his representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent him money on a
high cost loan which he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mr L with a loan of £5,600 on 19 May 2016 to be repaid over 60
months at the rate of £218.85 a month. He got into difficulties over the payments and several
payments were returned by his bank. He then made some reduced payments under a
payment plan and AvantCredit agreed to freeze the interest.
Mr L complained to AvantCredit that it didnt check the affordability of the loan enough and
that his credit records would have shown he wasnt in a position to take on a large loan. He
struggled to pay his bills and had to borrow from another lender to cover his essentials.
AvantCredit said that on his application, Mr L indicated that he received £1,500.00 monthly,
which it then verified. This information was then compared to the monthly expenses he had
listed on his application of £510.00 to help determine an affordable monthly repayment
amount for him. Its records indicated that the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation,
therefore his monthly credit commitments were expected to be reduced following funding. It
considered his bank transactions for the month before the loan application and also
examined Mr Ls credit record to determine whether the loan was affordable. And it
assessed that it was.
Our adjudicator thought that AvantCredit had acted reasonably and that its checks fairly
found the loan to be affordable.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the loan was unaffordable without 
using it for further debt consolidation. So my view was that AvantCredit didnt make a fair 
lending decision.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision.
AvantCredit didnt accept my provisional decision. It said it had no further evidence to add 
apart from its view that had Mr L used the debt consolidation as it had outlined and as he 
should have done then his disposable income would have been higher than the figure that 
has been stated. And that the credit cards balances would have drastically reduced, also 
providing him with more access to emergency finance if needed.
It questioned why I said the loan was unaffordable based on Mr L missing payments on the 
loan. It has provided many cases on affordability where a customer has never missed a 
payment over a multiple year loan term with that future evidence not affecting the outcome 
by proving the customer could afford the loan repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
L would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make 
any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
AvantCredits assessment of Mr Ls credit record determined that Mr Ls credit commitments 
at the time of taking out the loan were £826 a month out of an income of £1,500. However 
this figure included a final £408 payment to be made on a loan which he had taken out in 
April 2016. From his credit record and allowing for a minimum payment of 3% of the balance
on his two credit cards, Ive calculated that a figure of £903.50 is more realistic, again
including the £408 payment.
AvantCredit has said the loan was for debt consolidation, though Mr L said he needed 
money, at least in part, for urgent repairs to his car. Looking at his bank statement at the 
time of receiving the money, it appears that he paid off three loans, including the £408 
payment I mentioned. This would have brought his credit commitments down to around
£321.50 per month. And with the new loan, it increased Mr Ls monthly credit commitments 
to around £540, about 36% of his verified income, which was in my view still very high. I 
can see that he also made a payment of £1,150 to a car dealership.
Realistically, based on his bank statements Mr Ls monthly expenses were about £650 
which would have left him with a disposable monthly income of around £169 based on the 
checks AvantCredit did. This would have left him with little flexibility to meet any emergency 
payments.
My view is that the loan was unaffordable without using it for further debt consolidation. 
AvantCredit could have done this by paying off some outstanding debts before releasing 
any funds to Mr L. Another indication that the loan was likely to be unaffordable was the 
fact that he had two credit cards which were at or over their respective limits of £2,200 and 
£1,550. In April 2016 Mr S had had cash advances on those cards totalling £430 and £60. 
The fact that it was unaffordable is also borne out by the fact that Mr L soon got into 
problems of returned payments in respect of the loan.
So, my view is that AvantCredit didnt make a fair lending decision.
AvantCredit will be aware of our approach to debt consolidation. That is, if the loan was for 
debt consolidation, it was for it to ensure that this happened, otherwise Mr Ls finances were 
such that the loan was likely to be unaffordable. I reiterate that it could have done this by 
paying off the outstanding debts it had identified, and it was within its power to do this. As I 
said Mr L understood that part of the loan was to be used for car repairs and he appears to 
have done this. 
As regards Mr Ls problems with repaying the loan, I noted that Mr L started having 
payments returned within two months of starting the loan, and AvantCredit was contacted by 
a Debt Advice Charity acting on Mr Ls behalf in January 2017. I would agree that this 
doesnt indicate the loan was unaffordable in the first place. But it is an indication that Mr L 
was having further debt problems within seven months of receiving the loan monies which 
this loan was supposed to resolve.
I remain persuaded by my provisional findings that this loan was unaffordable. My 
provisional findings, as Ive set out above are now final and form part of this final decision. Putting things right
Mr L has had the capital sum for the loan and its fair that he repays this. So I will require 
AvantCredit to do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr L as payments towards the capital amount of £5,600.
If Mr L has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr L.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide
the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman