DRN-3648898
The complaint
F, a club, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt credit money to its account.
What happened
The official of F, who represents it in this complaint says that he drove to a Lloyds branch 
and his wife put two envelopes into a slot outside on 21 June 2021. One contained cash of 
£500 and the other cash of £210 and £90 in cheques. He has provided a copy of the paying 
in book receipt stub for each. Neither deposit was credited to the account. When he realised 
he tried to speak to someone at Lloyds about this, but no one called back, and he then 
raised a complaint. 
Lloyds said it had no record of this money. It said that the slot F said it had used was a letter 
box and wasnt for depositing money. It is possible that the envelopes were hooked out by a 
third party. But it has no CCTV or evidence to show what happened now. It paid F £50 as it 
accepted that it hadnt followed up on its query.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he couldnt see 
anything to indicate that this letter box was safe for deposits. The manager at the branch had 
said that this was solely for post and wasnt advertised as a drop box or safety deposit box. 
The letter box had been checked to make sure nothing had been jammed inside and Lloyds 
said that it would have been emptied by staff and post forwarded to the appropriate part of 
the branch. Extensive searches had been made and nothing found, and he wasnt able to 
conclude Lloyds was at fault.
He noted that F said it had paid in money at around the end of May 2021 in this way too and 
deposited four envelopes with paying in slips. These deposits had been credited to the 
account, but Lloyds said it had no way of confirming how theyd been received. This service 
isnt the regulator and cant say how any box should be marked up or that Lloyds should 
have contacted F to say not to deposit funds in this way.
F didnt agree. It said that Lloyds couldnt say the envelopes were posted but also couldnt 
say they werent. It is disappointing that there is no CCTV evidence and a camera over this 
spot might deter criminals. There were no warning signs on the box, and it doesnt say that it 
is only for letters. Given the pandemic at the time the official didnt want to go into a branch. 
He used Lloyds green envelopes and he should have been contacted before if it hadnt 
wanted deposits in this way. There had been an obligation to contact him if letters had been 
stolen. He didnt think that this complied with a requirement to treat customers fairly and 
wanted to know how this could be taken forward. This amount was a small proportion of 
Lloyds profits and F had acted in good faith and should be credited with the . A photographic 
example of a branch of another financial business that had clearly separately labelled a box 
for letters and a night safe was given. At Lloyds the slot used was next to the cash machine: 
so, the cash machine was for money out and this was taken to be for money in. F wanted an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear what F says about losing money in this way and I appreciate the impact for 
the organisation. I need to decide whether Lloyds made a mistake or acted unreasonably in 
not crediting these disputed deposits.
Ive looked at a picture of the outside of the branch and the layout is as F describes. Having 
said that I dont think it was reasonable to assume that the slot that F used was other than a 
letter box. There was no marking as a deposit box, there was no lock or security and there 
was no receipt given. Having said that I can see why F would think that once the envelopes 
were on bank premises theyd be safe.
The previous envelopes posted in this way F says only contained cheques. And there would 
be a way to stop cheques that had gone missing. Im unclear here what happened to the £90 
of cheques that formed part of the disputed amount here and whether these could be 
reissued. In any event F says it had also deposited cash which was clearly untraceable if it 
went missing. Im afraid that although I understand why F acted in this way until Lloyds had 
received and checked the amounts the risk of loss was borne by F. I dont have evidence to 
confirm Lloyds received this money and it says that it didnt. It has put forward a plausible 
way in which an envelope might be removed back through the letter box. Frankly I cant 
know what happened to any money posted by F in this way and so fairly find Lloyds at fault.
This service isnt the regulator and it is a matter for Lloyds to set its processes. Lloyds 
decided not to have a deposit box at this branch and not unreasonably needs a letter box. It 
says that it cant stop customers posting money through a letter box. And I dont have a 
basis to say what if any markings and or cameras it ought to have in place and so to 
consider whether that would in practice be any deterrent or not. I also cant say it should 
have contacted F after the first deposits to tell it not to use this method again. 
So, I know that the official of F will be very disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring 
Lloyds to anything more than it has already. And which was to pay F £50 for not following up 
on its initial contact.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman