DRN-4087307
The complaint
Mr H complains that Europ Assistance S.A. (EA) declined his travel insurance claim for his 
cancelled return flight. My references to EA include its agents.
What happened
On 10 January 2022 Mr H bought a cancellation cover travel insurance policy. The policy 
was underwritten by EA. The policy covered from 2 February to 28 March 2022. Mr H had 
been due to travel abroad from 2 February to 27 March 2022.
In late January 2022 the airline for the outbound journey cancelled the flight of 2 February 
2022 and refunded the cost of that flight. Mr H booked another outbound flight for 
18 February 2022, which appears to have been flexible on dates.
Mr H says he had to cancel the trip planned to start on 18 February as on 6 February 2022 
he had a bad fall from a ladder causing severe back pain which meant he couldnt walk. He 
went to hospital where he had morphine and a MRI scan.
Mr H cancelled the return flight ticket for 27 March 2022 which was non-refundable. The 
original outbound and return flights cost a total of £1,007.95 and Mr H claimed £500 for the 
cancelled return flight.
EA declined the claim. Initially it said the event causing the flight cancellation happened after 
the date the trip started so there was no cover for cancellation under the policy terms.
Our investigator said EA unfairly declined the claim for the reason it gave and recommended 
EA pay the claim plus interest.
EA then said it had mistakenly thought Mr H was on his trip while he was injured. It asked for 
the medical report and flight information our investigator had referred to when making her 
recommendation. When EA considered that evidence it still declined the claim as it said:
The policy terms meant the cancellation cover applied when the whole trip booking, 
made through a named travel company, was cancelled for an insured reason  not 
just the return flight.
The MRI report and hospital doctors letter to Mr Hs GP didnt show Mr H was 
advised he was medically unfit to travel, which was required by the policy terms to 
potentially have cover. Also the MRI report said Mr H onset of sciatica was 
atraumatic which suggested his back problem wasnt caused by an injury.
When Mr H bought the cancellation cover policy, he also bought a policy for flexible 
tickets cover. Under the flexible tickets policy EA would reimburse travel if Mr H was 
unable to complete the original travel and had to make a rebooking. But the cover 
only applied when Mr H rebooked the flights through the same named travel 
company hed originally booked with. EA understood that ultimately Mr H travelled 
from mid-April to early June 2022 on flights Mr H booked directly with an airline, not 
through the travel company. So it said there was no cover for the claim under the 
flexible tickets policy either.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked EA to send us the flexible tickets cover policy 
document and I asked Mr H for evidence about his flight bookings. I referred to the evidence 
received in my provisional decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H as Im intending to not uphold the complaint. On the evidence 
I have I think EA reasonably declined the claim for one of the reasons its given under the 
cancellation policy and it reasonably declined the claim under the flexible tickets policy. Ill 
explain why.
Cancellation cover policy
The policy terms under the cancellation cover policy says that subject to the policy 
exclusions and limits:
The object of the cover is to reimburse You for the expenses You incurred directly 
due to the cancellation of the covered Travel product in case one of the following 
insured events occurs before the Travel starts.
The insured events include Mr Hs serious illness or serious injury. The policy gives the 
following definitions:
Travel: A trip that takes place during the Period of insurance which begins when You 
leave home and ends when You get back home .. in Your home country.
Serious injury: Injury caused by an Accident and, more specifically:
- when a Serious Injury relates to an Insured, it is necessary that a licensed doctor 
states that you cannot attend the Travel.
Accident: A sudden and unforeseen external event which causes non-intentional 
bodily injury to any natural person.
I dont think EA fairly declined the claim for the initial reason it gave - that the cause of the 
cancellation occurred after the trip was due to start. The start of the trip had been postponed 
and Mr H said he had his accident before the new date he was due to go on the trip. EA has 
accepted it misunderstood the situation when giving that reason to decline the claim.
I also dont think EA fairly declined the claim on the basis that a claim for cancellation of just 
the return journey isnt covered. Even if I thought under a strict interpretation of the policy 
terms the cancellation claim wasnt covered, I have to consider whats fair and reasonable. 
Mr H only didnt include the cost of his outbound journey because the airline had already 
refunded his original outbound flight when it cancelled the flight. In these circumstances 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for EA to decline the claim on that point.
However, EA also declined the claim because it said the medial evidence Mr H provided to 
support his claim wasnt enough to show the claim was covered by the policy terms. On the 
evidence Ive seen I think EA fairly declined the claim on that basis. I say that because:The MRI report says Mr H was seen by A&E with Sudden onset BL sciatica, 
atraumatic and it gives details of what the MRI scan found. The letter from the 
hospital doctor to the GP says Mr H would benefit from physiotherapy. But the letter 
from the hospital doctor doesnt say Mr H couldnt travel because of the back pain, 
which is what the policy requires for potential cover. I dont doubt Mr H was in pain 
with his sciatica but that isnt the same as a doctor saying he wasnt able to travel 
because of it.
Also, Mr H says his back problem was caused by an accident but I think its 
reasonable for EA to understand that atraumatic noted in the MRI report suggests 
the sciatica happened without being triggered by an accident, so it wasnt an injury. 
The policy can potentially cover cancellation due to a serious illness but EA would 
reasonably want more information about that medical condition from Mr Hs GP to 
see if the claim could be covered.
So on the available medical evidence I think EA fairly declined the claim for the cost of the 
27 March 2022 return flight under the cancellation policy.
Mr H may be able to get written evidence from his GP that:
He wasnt fit to travel at the time because of his sciatica, and
Whether Mr Hs sciatica was triggered by an accident and if not whether hed been 
told he had sciatica before he took out the insurance.
Its fair for me to tell Mr H that if the GP said he wasnt fit to travel because of his sciatica but 
hed been told he had sciatica before he took out insurance then EA would reasonably want 
to know more information about his medical situation. Thats because his sciatica would then 
be a pre-existing condition which the policy only covers in very limited circumstances.
Mr H may be able to get the above evidence from his GP to send to me in response to my 
provisional decision. If so I will consider that evidence. If Mr H cant get that evidence in time 
to respond to my provisional decision he will need to send it to EA to consider the new 
evidence.
Flexible tickets policy
EA has now sent the flexible tickets policy Mr H also bought. The policy says:
We shall reimburse You, subject to the Conditions and Limitations set out below, as 
a result of You being unable to complete the Original Travel and having to make a 
Rebooking subject to the terms and conditions of this insurance policy
The policy definition of Original Travel means the original flight had to through a named 
travel company.
One of the policy conditions for cover is:
The Insured must complete a second booking following the instructions described on 
the confirmation email issued by (a named travel company) to confirm the Original 
Ticket or with (a named travel company) by telephone. If a Travel is rebooked in any 
other way this Policy coverage shall not apply in respect of such RebookingThe policy terms mean that for Mr Hs claim for the cancelled 27 March 2022 flight to be 
covered, that flight and the replacement return flight have to be booked through the named 
travel company.
Even if Mr Hs original return flight on 27 March 2022 was booked through the named travel 
company the evidence hes provided shows he booked the replacement return flight directly 
through an airline, not through the named travel company.
Mr H has told us he then gave up booking though the named travel company as his flights 
were being cancelled and not fully refunded so he made his final rebooking direct with an 
airline. I understand his frustration with his situation, but I think EA reasonably said there 
was no cover for his claim under the flexible tickets policy terms and it reasonably declined 
the claim under that policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
EA said it had nothing to add. Mr H said he was disappointed EA wouldnt pay his claim and 
sent more information about his flight bookings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the flight information Mr H has provided in response to my provisional 
decision as well as the information hed already provided. But I dont think the information 
shows he booked his final replacement return flight through the named travel company. For 
the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I still think EA fairly and 
reasonably declined his claim under the flexible tickets policy terms.  
My H hasnt provided any further medical evidence so for the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional findings and these findings I still think EA fairly and reasonably declined the claim 
under the cancellation policy terms.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman