DRN-3607012
The Complaint
This complaint concerns a claim against Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) 
(Barclaycard) under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a 
holiday product Mrs T and her husband bought on 17 January 2016 (the Time of Sale).
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mrs Ts, because it relates to a credit 
card in her sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mrs Ts name and that of her 
husband, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs T throughout much of this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs T purchased membership of a holiday club (the Club) from a provider (the 
Supplier) at the Time of Sale. The purchase price after local taxes were added was 5,158 
Euros. And in return for that, they could take one week of accommodation at a hotel 
specified by the Supplier (Hotel F) and up to five weeks of accommodation somewhere of 
their choosing.
Mr and Mrs T financed their purchase using a credit card in Mrs Ts name. And according to 
a credit card statement, just over £4,000 was added to her balance as a result.
Unhappy with what had happened at and after the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs T seem to have 
contacted a professional representative (B) in early February 2018 to instigate a claim 
against Barclaycard. And in an email to B at that time, they said the following (in summary):
They were stopped while on holiday and invited to a sales presentation during which 
they were shown around a luxury apartment and offered a free week-long holiday at 
Hotel F (in the same standard of accommodation) that had to be taken within 12 months. 
They were also told that they could have 5 weeks of holidays in 4/5 star apartments like 
the one they were shown at Hotel F, a 14-day holiday at a well-known theme park and a 
Caribbean cruise  all of which had to be taken within three years.
They were shown a well-known website on which they say they were told they could get 
discounted flights once they became members. But when they looked at the website, 
they couldnt find any discounted flights.
They were told that they didnt have to attend any other presentations in the future. But 
they did have to sit through a presentation on their free holiday and face a grilling by 
two salespeople trying to get them to pay a further £5,000 to upgrade their membership 
 which they described as pressured.
When they took their free holiday at Hotel F in January 2017, the accommodation was 
not up to the standard they had been shown at the Time of Sale.
On returning to the UK after their holiday at Hotel F in January 2017, they contacted the 
Supplier to activate their membership of the Club.
At the date of writing to B, they had tried to arrange their five weeks of holidays over the 
last 12 months. But there was never any availability. They eventually managed to book a 
week in Tenerife for March 2018. The apartment was not up to the standard they were 
told they would get. And they were told that they had to attend another presentation.
They contacted the company in relation to the holiday to the relevant theme park and 
the Caribbean. They were told that they needed to pay out more money and book their 
flights with a company that came recommended. However, they didnt go ahead with that 
so-called free holiday either and feel that the Supplier misrepresented what they were 
buying because:
(1) They were told that, as members, they could book discounted flights when that 
wasnt true.
(2) They wouldnt have to attend any other sales presentations by the Supplier when that 
wasnt true.
(3) Their holiday accommodation would be of a high standard when that wasnt true.
In late February 2018, B started a claim against Barclaycard under Section 75 of the CCA on 
behalf of Mrs T. It isnt entirely clear what allegations were presented to Barclaycard as part 
of the claim. But according to its internal notes, the claim seems to have been based on my 
summary of the email Mr and Mrs T sent to B earlier that month (as above).
Barclaycard treated Mrs Ts claim as a complaint and sent her its final response in 
October 2018. It offered her £50 to recognise that the Section 75 claim hadnt been dealt 
with in a timely manner, but it otherwise wasnt persuaded that there was any evidence of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. So, Barclaycard rejected the claim.
Mr and Mrs T referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in November 2018
 using B as their representative. As their accompanying testimony looks like it covered
much of the same ground as their email to B in early February that year, it isnt necessary to
repeat it in detail here. But in summary, they briefly described the sale as pressured. They
were unhappy because they had spent a lot of time trying to arrange holidays without much
success. They said they were told that they wouldnt have to sit through another presentation
by the Supplier while on holiday  which wasnt true. Discounted flights werent available to
them as members despite being told they were. And their accommodation wasnt up to the
standard promised.
The complaint was then passed to an investigator for an assessment. And having looked at
everything on file, he wasnt persuaded that there was a reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the investigators assessment  though they didnt give any 
particular reasons for doing so. And so, the complaint was passed to me for the purpose of 
an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 14 June 2022. In my view, I thought the substance 
of this complaint was only confined to a claim under Section 75 of the CCA and the three 
allegations of misrepresentation above. And with that being the case, I wasnt persuaded 
that Barclaycard had done anything wrong.
As neither side has provided new evidence and/or arguments in response to my PD, and as 
the deadline for responses has been and gone, Ive considered this complaint for a Final 
Decision.My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise that 
this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T. But I hope theyll understand why Ive come to 
that conclusion.
Before I explain why, Ill repeat what I said in my PD about my role as an ombudsman. It isnt 
to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
My reading of this complaint is the same now as it was when I issued my PD. Mr and Mrs T 
say that the Supplier misrepresented the holiday product purchased by them because:
(1) They were told that, as members, they could book discounted flights when that wasnt 
true.
(2) They wouldnt have to attend any other sales presentations by the Supplier when that 
wasnt true.
(3) Their holiday accommodation would be of a high standard when that wasnt true.
Mr and Mrs T do say that they had difficulty using their holiday product due to limited
availability. And there does seem to have been some disagreement between them and
Barclaycard about the length of the contract they entered into. But they still havent
suggested that those issues involved misrepresentation under Section 75 of the CCA. 
Neither Mr and Mrs T or their professional representative (B) say, in response to my PD, that 
they were alleging that the relationship between Mrs T and Barclaycard was unfair under 
Section 140A of the CCA. And as Barclaycards offer of £50 to recognise that the Section 75 
claim hadnt been dealt with in a timely manner still isnt in dispute, I remain of the view that 
the substance of this complaint is confined to the allegations of misrepresentation above.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Barclaycard still doesnt dispute that Mrs T entered into a contract with the Supplier for 
services financed by a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. And I still havent seen 
anything to suggest Section 75 doesnt apply. But as I said in my PD, even if Im wrong 
about that, for the reasons I give below, it makes little difference to the overall outcome of 
this complaint.
There remain three overarching questions to consider here:
1. Did the Supplier make the representation in question?
2. If the answer to Question 1 is Yes, did the representation amount to a false statement of
existing fact or a statement of opinion that  having amounted to a false statement ofexisting fact  can be shown to be an opinion that the Supplier didnt hold or couldnt
reasonably have held?
3. If the answer to Question 2 is Yes, did the false statement induce Mr and Mrs T into
purchasing the relevant holiday product?
Having not been present at the Time of Sale, I cant determine with certainty what 
Mr and Mrs T were or werent told by the Supplier. Its possible that their holiday product was 
misrepresented for the reasons they say it was. But none of their allegations carry with them 
a detailed enough description of the conversation and circumstances surrounding it to 
conclude that its probable. And in the end, the part their testimony plays here comes down 
to how much it can be relied on given everything else thats been said and/or provided.
The Accommodation Contract Mr and Mrs T signed stipulated that they had to attend a 
meeting with a representative during their holidays  which is difficult to reconcile with their 
allegation that they were told they didnt.
The Contract did state that the one-week holiday at Hotel F would be in a Superior 
Standard one-bedroom apartment. However, its not clear whether that was simply the 
name given to the type of apartment by Hotel F or some measure of the standard the 
Supplier suggested Mr and Mrs T could expect. Even if it was the latter, in the absence of a 
precise and objective definition of Superior Standard, describing an apartment in that way 
strikes me as an entirely subjective measure thats likely to depend on ones perspective. In 
other words, it couldnt have been much more than an opinion. 
A statement of opinion can amount to a misrepresentation. But it can only do so if  having 
amounted to a false statement of existing fact  it is apparent that it was an opinion that the 
Supplier didnt hold or for which it lacked any reasonable basis. And as I still havent seen 
any persuasive evidence to demonstrate that the Supplier knew or ought to have known at 
the Time of Sale that the accommodation in question couldnt have been reasonably 
described as being of a superior standard, and as I still cant see that the same or a similar 
sort of description (with a precise and objective definition) was given by the Supplier in the 
paperwork (or elsewhere) to the accommodation available to Mr and Mrs T during the other 
five weeks they purchased as members of the Club, I dont think there was a 
misrepresentation for this particular reason.
I note that a copy of a Commercial Brochure provided by Mr and Mrs T (which is 
incomplete) suggests that, as members of the Club, there were available to them discounts 
on flights from a number of different providers. And while I still accept that Mr and Mrs T 
might not have been able to take advantage of those discounts, that isnt the same as saying 
that they were advertised to them by the Supplier in direct contradiction to what it knew or 
ought reasonably to have known at the Time of Sale.
Overall, therefore, given the information available to me, Im still not persuaded that
Mrs Ts Section 75 claim for misrepresentation should succeed. And in light of that and 
everything Ive said above, I dont think Barclaycard needs to do anything further to put 
things right in this complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman