DRN-3994673
The complaint
Miss B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly granted her a 
credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2021 Miss B entered into an agreement with Capital One to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. The credit limit was £200. 
Miss B says that Capital One didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
the credit card account. She says the card wasnt affordable for her from the outset and that 
her financial situation also worsened when her wages were cut. 
Capital One said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check Miss Bs 
financial circumstances before granting her the credit 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss B didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before opening the account, I think Capital One gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss B about her ability to repay. I say this having noted that it relied on 
information she provided to Capital One when she made her application. It also carried out a 
credit check and estimated Miss Bs daily outgoings using statistical information. 
Miss B recorded her gross annual income as £14,000. The credit checks Capital One carried 
out showed she had two other credit cards she was using, with combined available credit 
limits of £1,900. She also had an active hire purchase agreement in place on which she 
owed around £4,500. She also had access to a small overdraft facility on her bank account. 
The checks didnt show any evidence of adverse markers on Miss Bs credit record such as 
adverse credit notations, defaults or county court judgments. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Capital One gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the credit made available to her 
under the agreement was likely to be affordable to Miss B. I say this because, having looked 
at her income and committed expenditure at the time, its likely she would have had enough 
disposable income to be able to take on the new credit that Capital One was giving her. This 
is what I would have expected Capital One to rely on when assessing whether the proposed 
lending was fair and proportionate. 
I agree with our adjudicator that, looking at the maximum minimum payment she would 
make on the card each of £20, plus the other credit commitments we know about, Miss B 
would only be using around 20% of her monthly income. And for completeness, although its 
not something directly relevant here since Miss B didnt receive any credit limit increases, 
she still ought to have had sufficient disposable income available if her pay was cut by 
£3,000. This is what she said happened some months after she was granted the card. 
In conclusion, having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont 
think Miss B has been able to demonstrate that her credit card agreement with Capital One 
was unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that Capital One ought to have known she 
would struggle to make the card repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Capital One 
acted unfairly in approving her for the card. As Im not persuaded that Capital One acted 
unfairly, I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right. 
I know this wont be the outcome Miss B was hoping for, especially given the current 
financial difficulties shes told us about. Im sorry we cant help her on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman