DRN-1687634
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs Y says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Capital One sold Mrs Y the PPI when she called in to activate her credit card. The PPI was 
designed to help protect her monthly payments if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. As Mrs Y didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings the complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ys case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
On the available evidence, and from experience of how Capital One sold PPI over the 
phone at the time, I believe it would have made it clear to Mrs Y that she didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that shed have chosen to take it before it was added. I can 
understand if she doesnt remember that now after all this time.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs Y, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs Y got the information she needed to 
decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. 
So, it would have been useful for her if something went wrong, especially as theres 
nothing to suggest she was entitled to enhanced sick pay or redundancy pay or that she 
had any other means of meeting her repayments if she wasnt working. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs Ys lost out because of how Capital One 
sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman