DRN-2138155
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to Mrs M depositing 
foreign currency cheques and the subsequent delay in their crediting to her account causing, 
she estimates, a loss of around £3,000 due to a change in the exchange rate. Further they 
complain that as longstanding customers of the bank, they ought to have been notified of 
any change in the process.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues and is 
known to both Mr M and Mrs M and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in 
any detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with.
Mrs M had, prior to the incident in question, previously deposited foreign currency cheques 
with HSBC. On this occasion she expected to receive a similar service to that she had 
experienced before, and had she done so she feels she would not have lost approximately 
£3,000.
On complaint to HSBC, and after investigation, HSBC accepted that they were responsible 
for a short delay of around 4 days, but otherwise felt they had done nothing wrong and had 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions which governed the account. To reflect 
the poor service, HSBC waived the £50 processing fee they would normally have charged. 
Mr M and Mrs M were unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint, and having done so, concluded that there had poor service by HSBC and the 
amount of compensation it had offered Mr M and Mrs M was insufficient. The investigator 
thought it would be fair if HSBC were to pay Mr M and Mrs M £238.83 being the loss 
occasioned by the difference in the exchange rate due to the delay.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.
I have taken account of both sides views in considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here.
The accepted facts appear to be that Mrs Ms cheques were deposited with HSBC on the 
1 October and sent to HSBCs central processing centre where they were received on the 
4 October. The cheques were actually processed on the 10 October with an expected 
settlement date of the 31 October, and Mrs Ms account was credited with funds on the 
4 November. HSBC have accepted there was a delay of their making of 4 days.
HSBCs terms and conditions changed in June 2019. Prior to that their terms and conditions, 
in so far as they related to foreign cheques, stated that they would either collect or 
negotiate such a cheque. A negotiated cheque will be credited to a customers account 
more quickly and converted to sterling on the day it is negotiated, whereas a cheque thats 
collected wont be credited or converted until the date its paid. So, where a cheque is 
collected, the customer is more susceptible to changes in exchange rates, which is what 
happened here.
HSBC have explained that prior to June 2019 when a foreign cheque was received it would 
be dealt with on a case by case basis, with the details of the cheque being entered into their 
systems which would then determine whether the cheque should be negotiated or collected. 
HSBC are correct therefore in saying that following either method would be acting in 
accordance with the terms and conditions.
Initially HSBC told this service that in June they changed their process so that they only dealt 
with foreign cheques on a collection basis. They said they didnt notify their customers of this 
change because the existing terms and conditions covered the point anyway. In response to 
my Provisional Decision HSBC have said that in fact that initial response was incorrect. They 
now say that they had not stopped negotiation of cheques all together, and that they do still 
process some cheques on that basis, but due to risk reasons, more cheques are likely to go 
for collection.
I identified that the problem with HSBCs first position, albeit that is now not accepted as the 
correct position, is that in reality HSBC were only collecting cheques post June 2019 but 
leaving their customers to believe that they might also be negotiated, as that was what the 
terms and conditions said. I am happy to accept that the true position is that as advanced by 
HSBC, and accordingly I have reconsidered my view.
But what has not changed is that HSBC did change their procedure. I say that because they 
have candidly accepted that more cheques are now likely to go for collection. And it is this 
very point that was not made clear to Mr M and Mrs M, and as such had it been, I think it 
likely they would have chosen to deal with matters differently.
So, by not advising Mrs M that more cheques were likely to go for collection, she proceeded 
under a misconception, that being that her cheque was likely to be processed as it was on 
previous occasions. As a matter of good practice, I think HSBC ought to have warned Mr M 
and Mrs M that, whilst its terms suggested a cheque might be negotiated, in reality its new 
procedure was that it probably wouldnt.
So, I do think Mr M and Mrs M have been dealt with unfairly here and I think what HSBC 
should do is put Mr M and Mrs M back in the position they would have been had they known, 
or been in a position to know, the method for processing the cheques had changed. Had 
they known that I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that they would have acted 
differently as they have described to this service by obtaining a sterling cheque.
HSBC have queried the date of the 1 October 2019 as being the date which I thought Mrs M 
could have obtained a sterling cheque in replacement. That is the day she presented the 
dollar cheque to HSBC, and of course had she been advised of the change to HSBCs foreign cheque processing in or around June, she would most likely have arranged matters 
so that a sterling cheque would have been issued to her.
So, I am satisfied that the 1 October 2019 is the correct date to work from. 
Putting things right
I think HSBC should therefore compensate Mr M and Mrs M for the loss they occasioned as 
a result in the change in the exchange rate. Im satisfied that Mr M and Mrs M could have 
stopped the existing cheques and had fresh cheques issued in sterling at the exchange rate 
existing on the 1 October 2019. 
My final decision
I think HSBC have acted unfairly here and I provisionally uphold this complaint.
So, I think HSBC should calculate the difference between the sum actually credited to Mr M 
and Mrs Ms account (£36,420.35) and the amount the cheques would have been issued for 
in GBP on the 1 October 2019, had Mrs M had the opportunity to request that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman