DRN-2840094
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs S are unhappy about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds)
has dealt with their claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following high winds and rain, Mr L and Mrs S noticed that water had come in through the
roof of their house to one of the upstairs bedrooms and the kitchen. They reported this
immediately to Lloyds and made a claim under the storm damage section of their home
insurance policy.
Lloyds appointed a surveyor to inspect the property. His report said that the flat kitchen roof
was covered in felt and that this was split and had come to the end of its life expectancy. It
needed replacing along with the decking boards. He said the damage had been caused
gradually and not as a result of the storm. The internal damage in the kitchen was to the
walls and ceiling. He concluded that this was consistent with a long term ingress of water.
The report went on to say that the main roof to the house had one slipped tile and another
old repair with a lead tab. The surveyor said that the damage to the tile was not storm
related and was due to corrosion of the nail holding the tile in place. The surveyor concluded
that the internal damage to the first floor bedroom ceiling was consistent with a one off
ingress of water and was as a result of the storm. He noted that repairs and re-decoration
would be needed to the ceiling.
The surveyor offered Mr L and Mrs S a cash in lieu payment of £610.71 for the internal
damage to the bedroom. This was confirmed in a letter received the following day. Mr L and
Mrs S considered appealing the refusal of the claim for damage to the main roof but decided
against this as the cost to repair the roof was not significant. They contacted the surveyor to
accept the cash in lieu payment.
Mr L and Mrs S then appointed and paid for their own builder to repair the damage to the
bedroom. Mrs S spoke with Lloyds to arrange the cash payment and queried why the roof
claim had been declined. She was then contacted again by Lloyds and informed that the
whole claim had now been declined and that the cash in lieu offer had been made in error.
Mr L and Mrs S were not happy with this and complained to Lloyds. Lloyds accepted that a
mistake had been made when they accepted the internal damage claim and apologised and
offered £150 compensation. They did not, however, feel that their decision to decline the
claim was wrong. Mr L and Mrs S were not happy with this and brought their complaint to us.
They accept that the damage to the kitchen, both internal and external, is not covered under
the policy. They were not happy, however, that having initially been told that the internal
damage was agreed that Lloyds then changed their mind. They thought this was not fair.
They also thought that their claim for damage to the slate roof and bedroom should not have
been declined.
Our investigator looked into this matter and found that there were storm conditions but that
these did not cause the damage. She thought that the damage was caused by gradual wear
and tear and that it had been fair for Lloyds to decline the claim in full. She also thought that
the £150 compensation offered by Lloyds for their mistake was reasonable. Mr L and Mrs S
did not agree and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 8 May 2021. I said:
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the
damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim
unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it
.
Mr L and Mrs Ss home insurance policy includes storm damage. A storm is defined at p57
of the policy booklet as a period of violent weather with strong winds with gusts of at least
55mph. It goes on to say We will take into consideration the condition of your home. A
storm can highlight damage rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through
wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered. Rain alone is not a storm.
On page 45 of the policy booklet there are general exclusions that apply to all sections and
these include loss and damage caused gradually over time and normal wear and ageing.
The policy also includes accidental damage, but at page 25 of the policy it specifically
excludes damage caused by water entering your home,
It is clear, therefore, that Mr L and Mrs Ss policy covers damage caused by a storm but will
not cover any damage that is caused gradually over time, by normal wear and ageing, or
through lack of maintenance. It also does not include accidental damage caused by water
entering the home.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions:
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend
that a storm complaint is upheld. I will look at each point separately and consider the
external damage and the internal damage.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Lloyds have not specifically dealt with this issue in their correspondence with Mr L and Mrs
S, but I can see from their file notes that they accept that there were winds over 55mph on
the day in question. I have also checked weather reports and can see that winds were
recorded at up to 60mph on that and the previous day, and there was rainfall recorded at
17mm. I am therefore satisfied that there were storm conditions at the time of the damage.
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
Strong winds are known to dislodge roof tiles, so Im satisfied the damage in this instance to
the slate roof is consistent with damage typically caused by a storm. Storm weather can also
cause damage to internal decorations where rainwater has got in to the property. I am
therefore satisfied that the damage to Mr L and Mrs Ss bedroom is consistent with damage
caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?The surveyor says in his report that the slipped tile was caused by corrosion of the nail and
is therefore natural wear and tear. I have reviewed the surveyors report including the
photos. It can clearly be seen that one roof tile has slipped but not fallen from the roof, and
there is no other fresh damage to any of the tiles around it. The surveyor has given a
reasonable explanation for why the tile has slipped and I think it more likely than not that the
damage was caused by natural wear and ageing. It is possible that the high winds
highlighted the problem, but I am not persuaded that they were the main cause of the
damage. I therefore do not think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to say that the external
damage wasnt down to a one-off storm incident.
I have then gone on to consider the internal damage. The surveyor says in his report that the
damage is consistent with a one-off water ingress. He concluded that this was storm
damage and covered under the policy. Lloyds, however, disagreed and said that as the
damage to the roof was not storm damage, the whole claim should have been declined.
I have looked at Lloyds notes of the complaint. These seem to suggest that the reason for
the refusal was because, although they accept there were high winds, there was no rainfall
over 25mm. I have looked carefully at the terms of the insurance policy and can find nothing
that says that rainfall must be over a certain amount to be considered part of a storm. The
policy does say that rain alone will not constitute a storm, but in this instance there were
winds over 55mph as well.
From weather reports I can see that there was 17mm of rain on the day in question. Whilst I
accept this is not significant rainfall, I think it likely to have been sufficient that the high winds
could have driven the rain in through the damaged roof. The surveyor says that he believes
the damage to the bedroom ceiling was caused by a one-off ingress of water, and I have not
seen any evidence that contradicts this or any other explanation for the damage. I am
therefore satisfied that the internal damage to the bedroom is covered under the storm
damage section of the policy and intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
I have also considered the compensation paid to Mr L and Mrs S for the mistake Lloyds say
that they made in initially accepting the internal damage claim and then declining it. Although
I am now satisfied that the internal damage should be covered under the policy, I still
think that the compensation is fair. The award was made for the change in decision and the
inconvenience and upset that this caused. Mr L and Mrs S thought they were not going to be
paid for work that they had already carried out and felt let down by the way the claim had
been handled. I do not, however, intend to make any further award as I think that £150
adequately reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provision decision
Mr L and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision, as did Lloyds. No further comments were 
made by either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the part of the complaint in relation to the internal damage. I 
dont uphold the part of the complaint in relation to the external damage. I require Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited to pay to Mr L and Mrs S:
£610.71 less the £100 policy excess as a cash in lieu payment for the
internal damage to the bedroom;
interest at 8% on the above sum from the date of loss to the date of payment;
and
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr L and Mrs S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L and Mrs S how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr L and Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman