DRN-1955753
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms S bought the PPI in 2009 at the same time as applying for the credit card online.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada Square disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ms S says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. During the online process 
Ms S would have come to a page about PPI which offered her yes and no options to either 
request or decline the PPI. Canada Square has provided a copy of Ms Ss application report 
which shows that she selected the yes option. Overall, based on the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that Ms S would have known from the layout and wording of the web page that she 
had a choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing that 
she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square didnt advise Ms S to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it meet her 
needs. But it did need to provide sufficient information for Ms S to be able to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
The policy did not cover pre-existing medical conditions in certain circumstances and had an 
exclusion for chronic or continuing disease that someone was aware of at the start of the 
policy. This information would have been important to Ms S as she was diagnosed with an 
ongoing condition in 1999.
Looking at the application process, the main PPI web page doesnt contain any information 
about the main policy exclusions. There is a link that could be clicked to see Important 
Insurance Information. However, it wasnt a requirement that this had to be clicked prior to 
making the decision to buy PPI by clicking the yes option.
Canada Square says there were no sales failings regarding information provided about pre-
existing medical conditions. It says that an independent review of its historic sales processes 
found no shortcomings in this regard, even though it wasnt until after someone clicked yes 
to buy PPI that a pop up box opened that contained a further scroll box about exclusions and 
limitations.
Ive thought very carefully about what Canada Square has said but overall, I am not 
persuaded that the information provided was enough to highlight the significant exclusions 
around pre-existing medical conditions. Not all of the information was immediately in view 
when the pop up box opened. The information about exclusions was within a secondary 
scroll down box and there was nothing to require someone to actually scroll through all of the 
text.
It seems to me that, in this particular case, the steps taken by Canada Square werent 
enough to drawer the exclusions around pre-existing medical conditions to Ms Ss attention. 
Because, in her circumstances, I dont think Ms S would have continued with her decision to 
buy the PPI if the exclusion had been sufficiently highlighted to her. Because if she had 
understood that her condition would not be covered, she wouldnt have considered it to be 
good value for money in her situation. It follows that I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Canada Square should put Ms S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A. Canada Square should find out how much Ms S wouldve owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI 
premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also 
remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any 
interest added to those charges. Canada Square should then refund the difference 
between what Ms S owed when she closed her account and what she wouldve owed if 
she hadnt had PPI. If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada 
Square can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms S 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Canada Square works out what Ms S wouldve owed each month without PPI 
 Ms S paid more than enough to clear her balance, Canada Square should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Ms S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Ms S wouldve owed Canada Square something on her credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Canada Square should tell Ms C what its done to work out A, B and C.
E. Canada Square can deduct the amount it has already paid to Ms S for unfair 
commission from the above total.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint and require Canada Square Operations 
Limited to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman