DRN-1768884
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1996. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover their repayments if they were unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost their jobs. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs K. 
Mr and Mrs K disagree. They say the didnt know they had the policy and their employment 
conditions meant they werent eligible for cover.   
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
HSBC needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs K that they had a choice in taking the policy. 
Mr and Mrs K havent provided any real specific details about the sale which is 
understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. And HSBC havent given 
us any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was 
discussed about MPPI or how it was presented.
Given the policy was sold to cover a mortgage I think it is likely it was sold during the 
mortgage application process in a meeting with an advisor. During the mortgage application 
process a lot of information is gathered about a customers personal and financial 
circumstances in order to assess the availability of products on offer. I think it is likely MPPI 
was discussed during this process and because the policy and the direct debit payments for 
it was completely separate from the mortgage I think its likely that HSBC wouldve made Mr 
and Mrs K aware that MPPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs K had MPPI because they 
freely chose to take it rather than anything else. If they hadnt agreed to take the policy I think they wouldve questioned what the monthly 
payments were for on their bank statements. And Ive not seen enough to say that they 
werent given a choice or that they didnt agree to take the cover.
To put Mr and Mrs K in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if HSBC advised Mr 
and Mrs K to take the policy. What this means is that HSBC not only had to provide 
information about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs K could 
make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ks needs and circumstances.
I dont know if HSBC did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs K for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs K say they werent eligible for the policy because Mr K only worked 30 
hours a week and Mrs K had been in her job less than a year. However, to be eligible 
for the policy you just had to be working more than 16 hours a week. So it doesnt 
look like they wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr and Mrs K say they had some sick pay and savings they could use to make their 
repayments if they couldnt work. But a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of this and for potentially longer, covering their repayments for up to 12 
months if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness or if they lost their 
jobs.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs K in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs K wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs K at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it.
 
I also need to consider whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs K information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if HSBC did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs K have told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd been 
given all the proper information.
So this means Mr and Mrs K arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by HSBC.
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman