DRN-4507077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank PLC applied a payment arrangement marker to 
their bank account when the arrangement was only agreed for Mrs Ds credit card. Mr and 
Mrs D also complain about having to contact Lloyds on multiple occasions without response.
What happened
I set out the background and my provisional findings to the complaint in my provisional 
decision, and copied here.
In February 2022 Mr and Mrs D requested Lloyds apply a payment arrangement on Mrs Ds 
credit card, but said that Lloyds also applied this to their joint bank account. Lloyds agreed to 
remove the arrangement in May 2022, however Mr and Mrs D said that in October 2022 the 
marker was still in place and has continued to affect their credit rating.
Mr and Mrs D said this caused them increased costs when trying to apply for a mortgage, 
and paying higher interest rates than they would have without the marker. Mr and Mrs D 
complained to Lloyds and said they wanted to be compensated for the stress and additional 
costs they have incurred and the delay in removing the marker from their credit file.
Lloyds responded to the complaint in May 2022 and January 2023. Lloyds that a repayment 
arrangement was agreed for Mrs Ds credit card at her request in February 2022. In error it 
also applied this to their bank account affecting their credit files. Lloyds apologised for its 
error and agreed to have the markers removed. Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs D a total of £175 
compensation for their trouble and upset.  
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs D made contact on 20 January 2023 as the arrangement markers 
had reappeared. Lloyds agreed to remove them and processed the request on 30 January 
2023. Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs D to allow up to 90 days for their credit file to be amended. 
Lloyds said it had offered to review any further financial impact of the increased mortgage 
payments if Mr and Mrs D could provide evidence that showed this was a result of the 
markers. It said it was disappointed that Mr and Mrs D had to contact the bank on several 
occasions before it responded to them, and paid them a further £150 compensation.
Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied with Lloyds response to their complaint and referred it to our 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said we would 
need evidence that they would have received a lower interest rate on their mortgage had 
there not been arrangement markers on their account. She said the compensation Lloyds 
paid was fair for the impact of its mistake about the markers, which it had since corrected.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed, saying that as of 30 May 2023 the marker was still on their credit 
file  more than 90 days from the requested removal. Mrs D said her application for a new 
credit card had been rejected and previously applied for four mortgages. They provided a 
letter from a broker that stated three mortgage applications had been declined due to their 
credit rating and they had had to proceed with adverse lenders. And provided evidence 
which shows the only adverse information reported on their credit files was from Lloyds.
In response, the investigator said that Lloyds had failed for a long time to remove the credit 
marker and should now ensure this is done and pay Mr and Mrs D £500 compensation. 
Lloyds agreed, but Mr and Mrs D did not and requested an ombudsman review their 
complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I can see that Mr and Mrs D werent aware that Lloyds would apply the marker they 
requested for Mrs Ds credit card, to their current account. At the point that they became 
aware they were applying for a re-mortgage and realised that their credit rating had been 
adversely affected and that they wouldnt be able to go through with the re-mortgage. I can 
appreciate the shock and upset they felt at this time. 
Im concerned that Mr and Mrs Ds credit score did not revert to its previous level and their 
complaint concerns the time this has taken and impact they suffered. They say this issue 
stopped and delayed their re-mortgage. They told Lloyds they had to take a bridging loan to 
complete the purchase of their property, and this cost them £100,000. Since their complaint 
Mr and Mrs D have reported that the marker returned to their credit file three times in respect 
of their current account, with the latest incidence in August 2023.
Lloyds has apologised to Mr and Mrs D for its mistake in applying the marker to their current 
account. And so the key question for me is whether or not this mistake prevented or delayed 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage and credit card applications, and if so what the impact of this was 
on them.  
Lloyds has confirmed that an arrangement is still being reported to the credit reference 
agencies about Mr and Mrs Ds current account, despite its previous requests for removal. 
Lloyds said it would amend the credit file in May 2022 and again in January 2023, and yet 
the credit marker was still present in August 2023. It said that Mr and Mrs Ds credit score 
had suffered only a minor reduction when the mistaken marker was initially in place. 
A prolonged negative marker on a credit file can have serious implications for a consumers 
ability to obtain credit. However, Mrs Ds credit file has adverse information reported in 
relation to her credit card as well as the erroneous marker on their current account. And so it 
wouldnt be the latter that is the sole reason for the decline of their mortgage applications. It 
should be borne in mind that a mortgage application is assessed by a lenders underwriters 
against all criteria associated with the lenders appetite to lend. And so there are many 
factors which influence a business lending decision, including the level of the applicants 
debt, a poor credit score, etc. 
From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs D took out short term mortgage borrowing in December 
2021 with a view to obtaining a mortgage in March 2022. The mistaken marker was applied 
in March 2022 and Mrs Ds credit card arrangement was due to end in May 2022. Mrs D has 
since told us that they have decided not to re-mortgage their borrowing and have accepted 
high interest rates as a result. In the light of what Ive said about the many factors that may 
affect an application for credit and as I havent seen evidence of a direct loss associated with 
the current account marker, I dont propose to award compensation for additional interest or 
charges Mr and Mrs D may have incurred in this respect.
Lloyds said it had re-submitted the credit file amendment on 16 August 2023, and would 
monitor to make sure its correct. The credit report obtained after this by Mrs D shows an 
adverse marker for August 2023 and so it would appear that Lloyds needs to take further 
action concerning permanent removal. Mrs D has shown us evidence of the fees she and 
her husband paid to check their credit file whilst incorrect information was reported. This 
totals £355.64 for the period from March 2022 to September 2023 and I think it would be fair 
for Lloyds to reimburse this cost to Mr and Mrs D for the repeated presence of the mistaken 
marker. I understand Lloyds point that a customer pays for their credit file to view 
everything, not just a mistaken marker. However, I dont doubt that the dominant reason for Mr and Mrs Ds monthly checks was to see if Lloyds had corrected its mistake and so I 
currently think it would be fair for Lloyds to reimburse them for these charges.
Ive considered the compensation of £500 recommended by the investigator for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr and Mrs D have suffered. Its obvious from Mrs Ds calls to Lloyds in 
May 2022 that she wanted an amendment to the mistaken marker as quickly as possible due 
to their borrowing requirements. The calls between Mrs D and Lloyds became strained and 
ineffective as she felt that her complaint issues were not being resolved. And previous call 
back requests from Mrs D were not always actioned by Lloyds, causing her great frustration. 
I think it likely that Mr and Mrs D were deterred from making credit applications by the 
ongoing presence of the marker. I am currently minded to award compensation of £750 as I 
think this represents a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs 
D and is consistent with awards we have seen in similar circumstances. 
Conclusion
Mr and Mrs D havent provided anything to show that their mortgage applications suffered as 
a direct consequence of the negative credit marker on their current account as opposed to 
Mrs Ds credit card report or elsewhere, and so although I think this was likely to have been 
a contributory factor, I cant fairly say that Lloyds are responsible for any specific loss.
I currently think it would be fair for Lloyds to reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the fees they 
incurred to check credit reports. Mrs D has descried the ongoing worry and inconvenience 
they suffered as a consequence of Lloyds error and its failure to correct it for well over a 
year. And I currently think Lloyds should pay them £750 compensation over and above that 
already paid by Lloyds. 
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons I have given it is my provisional decision that the complaint is likely to be 
upheld. I am minded to require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs D £750 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience they have been caused and, if it has not already done so, 
ensure the arrangement marker is removed from their credit files in relation to their Lloyds 
joint current account. 
I am also minded to require Lloyds Bank PLC to reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the cost they 
incurred of £355.64 on obtaining credit reference reports during the period when Lloyds was 
mistakenly reporting an adverse marker in respect of their current account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds had no further comments to make in response to the provisional decision. 
Mrs D responded to say that the arrangement marker from the current account has still not 
been removed and she provided screen shots of her credit file to show this. Mrs D wants to 
know what can be done to deal with the banks mistake.
Mrs D said she should be receiving a higher pay out for Lloyds mistake and persistent 
failure to take account and resolve the situation. She said she is distraught about what she 
has been put through and is utterly disappointed and said Lloyds should be ashamed of 
itself.
I have reconsidered the issues and compensation I recommended, and having done so I 
remain of the view that what I put forward in my provisional decision represents a fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I am very sorry to see that the problem with the adverse marker on the credit file is still 
present, and can well understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration about this. In my provisional 
decision I said to Lloyds, if it has not already done so, ensure the arrangement marker is 
removed from their credit files in relation to their Lloyds joint current account. 
Within my provisional decision I attempted to deal with all of the issues raised by Mr and Mrs 
D and so I have covered the period beyond Lloyds final response to Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint, up to when they received their credit file report in September 2023. This means 
that it is open to Mr and Mrs D to bring a further complaint to Lloyds about the ongoing 
problem with the credit marker from that point onwards. The complaint can then be referred 
to our service once they have received a final response from Lloyds if they remain 
dissatisfied.
In the meantime, we have asked Lloyds to redouble its efforts to get the adverse marker 
removed. Lloyds has told us that it is urgently reviewing this in light of Mrs Ds latest 
communication. 
I am still only able to review the period of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint up to the receipt of their 
credit report in September 2023. Mrs D has said she should be receiving a higher pay out 
for Lloyds mistake, but hasnt provided anything further about this. 
Mr and Mrs D still havent provided anything to show that their mortgage applications 
suffered as a direct consequence of the negative marker on their credit file concerning their 
current account as opposed to Mrs Ds credit card report or elsewhere. I remain of the view 
that this would likely have been a contributory factor to their difficulties although I havent 
seen that Lloyds has been responsible for any specific loss.
Putting things right
I remain of the view that it would be fair for Lloyds to reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the fees 
incurred to check credit reports. Mrs D described the ongoing worry and inconvenience they 
suffered as a consequence of Lloyds error and its failure to correct it for well over a year. 
And I think Lloyds should pay them £750 compensation over and above any amount it has 
already paid them.  
If Mr and Mrs D choose to reject this decision then it will be of no legal effect, and they can 
pursue their complaint by other means. They should note, however that Lloyds would not 
then be obliged to pay them any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given here it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs D £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they have been caused and, if it has not already done so, ensure the 
arrangement marker is removed from their credit files in relation to their Lloyds joint current 
account. 
I also require Lloyds Bank PLC to reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the cost they incurred of 
£355.64 on obtaining credit reference reports during the period when Lloyds was mistakenly 
reporting an adverse marker in respect of their current account. 
The parties should note that the compensation I have awarded here applies to the period up 
until Mr and Mrs D received their credit file report in September 2023. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman