DRN-3932918
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has refused to refund money he says 
he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. But, in summary:
Between 30 December 2019 and 6 January 2020 Mr D sent more than £15,500 from his 
PayPal account to what he thought was a cryptocurrency trader. He says this turned out 
to be a scam and all his money was lost. In February 2021, Mr D complained to PayPal 
that it hadnt sufficiently protected him and asked it to refund his money, but it refused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the payments stood out as 
being particularly unusual or out of character. And there was nothing PayPal couldve 
done to recover the money after Mr D notified it about the fraud. Mr D disagreed and 
asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account is that Mr D is responsible for payments he authorised or otherwise consented to. 
And Im satisfied he did authorise all of the payments.
But there are circumstances in which we would expect PayPal to have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment. Or, in some cases, decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
The investigator didnt think the payments Mr D made were particularly unusual given the 
type of account held. I agree with regards to the first couple of payments and each individual 
payment isnt particularly remarkable in value. But Mr D had held his account since 2015 (it 
was not, as he suggests, a newly opened account) and I think, given the way he had used 
his account in the past, an unusual pattern starts to form by the second payment on 
3 January 2020. And I think PayPal ought to have questioned the purpose of the later 
payments before allowing them to go ahead. 
But I think its more likely than not Mr D would have made the payments anyway, even if 
PayPal had asked some questions. I say this with the following in mind.
In his correspondence with the scammers Mr D mentions that: Hed already had a bad 
experience with a trading company based in the same country  he lost €20,000 because 
they didnt protect his position. He used some fairly technical language when discussing the 
investment such as asking about the traders strategy with staking, predicting price trends 
and their view on pump price by purpose. He expressed concern about the security of his 
money, the trading account, the likely returns he could expect and how he could be sure the 
trader would act professionally. He asked who the companys financial regulator was and 
tells us he checked this with the regulator and found the company. And he tested the 
account by making a small withdrawal after his first investment.   
I dont think Mr D went into this investment blindly, he says hed invested previously, he 
clearly had concerns and asked a lot of questions, but was reassured by the answers given 
by the trader. I dont think, if PayPal had made some suggestions about the things he could 
check to reassure himself he was dealing with a genuine investment company, it would have 
made a difference in this case. 
Mr D didnt report the scam to PayPal for some time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
PayPal couldve recovered any of the money at that point.
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly instruct PayPal to refund any of the disputed payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman