DRN-2596210
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his company, that I will refer to as Y, about the time Allianz
Insurance Plc took to validate his claim on his insurance. 
What happened
Mr B took out a complete office insurance policy with Allianz on behalf of Y. This covered
the equipment and business contents he used at Ys offices.
In February 2020 there was a flood at the building where Ys offices are located. In March
2020 Mr B made a claim on the policy as a number of items of contents had been damaged
in the flood, including electrical equipment.
Allianz said in order to validate the claim for the items it would need to inspect them and 
carry out testing. Mr B initially didnt agree to this and made a complaint, that he later 
brought to this service. His complaint wasnt upheld.
After this, some time passed with no progress made on the claim. In September 2020 Mr B 
contacted Allianz to ask what was happening with it. Allianz explained it was waiting for a 
report from Mr B to show that the equipment was beyond economical repair. Shortly after 
this Mr B agreed to have the equipment collected by Allianzs contractor and inspected. 
However he said there was confidential information on the computers, so said he wouldnt 
provide his passwords. 
Allianzs contractor collected his equipment at the end of October. And in November Allianz 
contacted Mr B to say it had found no faults with the equipment. It said that while it hadnt 
been able to check the computers beyond the password screen, it had found no evidence of 
water damage in them or the other items it had tested. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this as he said he didnt think Allianzs contractors had the required 
qualifications to carry out the checks. He also said Allianz were taking too long to validate his 
claim. He made a complaint.
Allianz didnt uphold his complaint. It said it didnt agree it had caused avoidable delays. 
However it offered to appoint a forensic investigator to inspect the equipment as Mr B wasnt 
happy with the first inspection.
Mr B wasnt happy with this so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ys complaint. He said he didnt think Allianz had acted 
unreasonably or delayed the claim. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B, on behalf of Y, has made a number of complaints about this claim. One of these 
complaints was addressed by Allianz in its final response letter dated 5 June 2020. He 
brought it to this service and I have already issued a final decision on that complaint. So as 
part of this decision, I have only considered events between that final response in June and 
Allianzs final response letter that addressed this complaint, dated 27 December 2020.
Mr B has complained about the amount of time its taken for Allianz to validate his claim. He 
says Allianz didnt contact him for a long period of time, which meant he had to chase them. 
And he said they took too long testing his equipment.
I have looked at the correspondence between Mr B and Allianz in the period from its final 
response in June. I can see there was a period of time between July and September where 
no contact was made and there was no progress on the claim. 
Allianz has said that it had offered Mr B the option of having his equipment examined by his 
own expert, and was awaiting a report from him. 
When Allianz issued its final response in June, Mr B and Allianz had reached an impasse in 
relation to the next steps of the claim. Allianz needed to inspect Ys equipment in order to 
validate the claim, but Mr B hadnt agreed to have his equipment collected for inspection. 
Allianz had offered the alternative option of Mr B arranging to have the items inspected 
himself, but he hadnt arranged this either. So I cant see what more Allianz could have done 
to progress the claim at this point. Without the items being inspected, the claim couldnt be 
validated, and no further progress could be made. So while I agree there was a period of 
time where the claim wasnt progressed, I dont think this was caused by Allianz.
At the start of October Mr B agreed to have the items inspected by Allianzs contractor. 
However he says this took much longer than it should have. And this has meant he hasnt 
been able to use the computers to study towards a qualification, which has lost Y money.
I can see that Allianz did have Ys items for much longer than expected. From looking at the 
correspondence ay the time, it seems this was because an agreement couldnt be met. 
Allianz carried out the testing it was able to do, which was limited due to passwords on the 
computers. And from the tests it was able to carry out, it found no evidence of water 
damage. 
It informed Mr B of this and tried to arrange a remote appointment with him, in order to 
discuss the next steps. However Mr B was reluctant to do this. He didnt agree that the 
contractors Allianz had used had the correct qualifications to be able to do the testing. So he 
didnt accept that there was no damage. And wouldnt arrange a remote appointment.
So while I agree that the claim progressed more slowly than I would expect between June 
and December, I dont think Allianz can be held responsible for these delays. From what Ive 
seen these were caused by disagreement about how the claim could be moved forward. So I 
dont think Allianz has caused Y undue inconvenience in this period.
 
For these reasons I dont think Allianz caused avoidable delays to Ys claim in the period 
from June to December 2020. I therefore wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ys complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman