DRN-4196913
The complaint
Mr M complains Creation Financial Services Limited refused to transfer points he earned 
using his credit card, refused to issue him a prorated refund of his account fee, and failed to 
issue him a voucher for a hotel stay.
What happened
Mr M held a credit card with Creation linked to membership of a reward scheme with a third-
party provider. Points earned on the card were redeemable against hotel stays and 
associated benefits. One specific reward was an anniversary voucher, redeemable for a one 
night stay at a hotel. To qualify for the voucher Mr Ms spending needed to reach a specific 
sum and the account annual anniversary needed to have been reached.
Creation reviewed and then decided to close Mr Ms account. They sent him a letter at the 
end of September 2021 giving him two months notice that his account would close. 
Mr M still used the account during part of the notice period and says he should have been 
allowed to redeem points he accrued during this time. He says Creation should provide the 
hotel voucher given he spent the requisite amount on his account or in the alternative, pay 
the cost for a one-night hotel stay. He says he should receive a prorata refund of the annual 
fee because he couldnt use the account for the full year. And, he says he didnt receive the 
Creations response to his complaint within eight weeks, and the response didnt provide 
satisfactory reasoning.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. They concluded:
Creation acted in line with their legal and regulatory obligations when refusing to 
honour the remaining points on Mr Ms account and refusing to issue a voucher.
Mr M says he didnt receive Creations response to his complaint dated 2 December 
2021, until a copy was emailed to him in January 2022. As the copy didnt have his 
full address, he doesnt think the original letter was correctly sent. But Creation 
provided a copy of the original letter, which was correctly addressed, and they sent 
evidence showing it was sent on 2 December 2021.
Creation shouldnt retain the full annual account fee in view of Mr Ms account closing 
early. They should pay him a pro-rata refund for the period he no longer had the 
account.
Both Mr M and Creation disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached, so the 
complaint has been given to me, as an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Creation decided to close Mr Ms account. They have the discretion to end a customer 
relationship. Ive considered the basis of their decision and its reasonable. Mr M believes 
the reason for closing his account was to avoid the cost of issuing a hotel voucher. But 
although not issuing the voucher was a consequence of Creations decision, I dont find it 
formed the backbone of their decision. So, I dont find their application of the account closure 
terms unfair or that the term they relied on to close the account was unenforceable.
Mr M may not have directly complained about the account closure, but Im making the above 
finding because it relates to his point that Creation should still honour the voucher because 
he spent over the qualifying amount since the last account anniversary. The hotel voucher, 
however, could only be issued on his account being open on the accounts next anniversary. 
As the account was closed for a legitimate reason before that anniversary, Mr M didnt 
qualify for the voucher, so he isnt entitled to one.
For the same reason(s) Creation closed Mr Ms account, Im also satisfied they acted 
reasonably by not honouring the points earned during the notice period. I find their decision 
in line with their wider legal and regulatory obligations. So, I dont require them to let him 
redeem those points now.
Ive listened to Creations reason for not agreeing to a pro-rata refund, but I dont find what 
theyve said demonstrates they should retain monies paid to them for a service they didnt 
provide. Mr M was charged £99 on 21 July 2021 and as his account closed before 21 July 
2022, he paid for use of the account he couldnt benefit from. Creation should refund him a 
pro-rata sum for the period he no longer had use of his credit card account.
Complaint handling is not an activity which falls under our services compulsory jurisdiction. 
So, in isolation, a complaint about a failure to comply with a time limit under the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) is not something I can consider  its disconnected from a 
complaint about the underlying financial service. 
But I can consider points about the manner in which a firm administered its business in 
relation to a financial service. So, Mr Ms dissatisfaction with Creations explanation as to 
why they refused to allow him to redeem points or a voucher earned in relation to his 
account, and how long it took to provide that explanation, is something Ive considered.
After considering the evidence and information available, Im satisfied Creation does not 
need to reveal more of their reasoning to Mr M, and there is a valid reason for this. Im also 
persuaded, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Creation did send him their explanation  
even though Mr M finds it unsatisfactory - in their final response letter on 2 December 2021, 
and the letter was correctly addressed.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr M accepting this decision within the deadline, I require Creation Financial 
Services Limited to pay him a prorated refund of the account fee for the time he no longer 
had use of the account.My final decision
My decision is I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Creation Financial Services Limited to 
pay compensation according to my instruction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman