DRN-3125959
The complaint
Mr J complained about the customer service he received under his home emergency policy 
with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
What happened
Mr J had an issue at his home which led to him making a claim to Aviva under his plumbing 
and sewage home emergency policy. Mr J said he raised the claim on 3 September 2021 at 
around 9-30am. Mr J said that Aviva explained its systems werent working, so it took Mr Js 
details and agreed to call him back which it did. Unfortunately, there were still issues so 
Aviva said it would call back in 24 hours.
Mr Js job meant he was only available for appointments at certain times. Mr J was only 
available for weekend appointments or in the evening after 5pm. Mr J said Aviva called back 
on 4 September 2021, but no appointments were available at a suitable time.
Mr J said Aviva booked an appointment for 8am to 1pm on a Tuesday and he said Aviva 
shouldve known he couldnt make it. Mr J said he had to make several calls to push forward 
his requirement for an appointment and said Aviva didnt always call him back when it said it 
would. Mr J said it was difficult getting Aviva to understand what the issue was at his home 
and to get Aviva out to inspect the damage. The appointment to inspect the issue was 
agreed and completed on 5 September 2021.
Mr J felt his time was inconvenienced, as he said hed spent four or five hours of his time 
arranging a suitable appointment and he didnt think the appointment wouldve happened 
unless hed been so tenacious.
Aviva apologised for the issues its systems had caused and for not calling back Mr J when it 
had promised to, so it offered £30 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. Mr J said 
he wanted £150 in compensation, but later reduced his request for compensation to £90.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She assessed the communications 
between Mr J and Aviva and agreed Aviva had caused some inconvenience for Mr J. But, 
she thought the £30 offered by Aviva was fair in the circumstances of the complaint. Mr J 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by reviewing the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy to see what they state 
about appointments. The policy states when your claim requires us to visit your property, we 
will attend within a reasonable timescale. If something beyond our control makes that
impossible to keep to  well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time 
when we can visit.
Mr J raised the claim early on 3 September 2021 and Aviva attended an appointment at Mr 
Js property late afternoon on the 5 September 2021.  I appreciate Mr J felt he had to cajole 
Aviva to attend his property. But, as Aviva did attend the second day after the claim was 
raised, I think it has met the terms and conditions of the policy and attended an appointment 
in a reasonable timeframe. I havent seen anything to suggest the issue was more urgent, so 
I think this timeframe is reasonable, so I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here.
However, Mr J also thought the standard of service he received was poor due to the effort 
that was required on his part to get the appointment arranged at a suitable time. Aviva has 
accepted it did cause some inconvenience and offered £30 in compensation, so I have 
considered if I think it was fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think some of the calls made by Mr J were either unavoidable (the claim itself) or 
unnecessary (to chase the engineer who had arrived on time). The work was done on the 5th 
September from a call on the 3rd September and Aviva has explained it had issues with its 
systems. I think Aviva has acted reasonably. Therefore, I think the offer of compensation by 
Aviva is fair for the level of inconvenience that has been caused to Mr J and the likely 
distress this wouldve caused him. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman