DRN-3114402
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim under her travel insurance 
policy. Shes also unhappy with the service she received.
What happened
Ms D held a travel insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI). 
In March 2020, Ms D got in touch with UKI.  Her planned trekking holiday to Borneo couldnt 
go ahead due to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic.  She received a full refund for the cost 
of her flights but wanted UKI to refund her the remaining costs.
UKI considered her claim but decided the cost of her trekking holiday wasnt covered. Thats 
because Ms D had received a credit note from the trekking company to the full value of her 
trip, allowing her to re-book her holiday within two years of her original date of travel.  
In its final response letter UKI explained the policy only covered Ms D for unrecoverable 
losses. And as shed received a credit note to re-book her holiday, she hadnt lost the money 
shed paid. 
Ms D remained unhappy. She wanted UKI to cover her claim and complained their customer 
service agent told her she could reject the credit note and claim under her travel insurance 
policy. She also complained UKI had asked her to provide lots of information to evidence her 
claim, over an extended period, despite knowing her claim would not be covered.
UKI agreed the initial call between Ms D and their customer service agent could have been 
clearer, and it offered Ms D £100.00 to compensate her for the confusion caused. However, 
it didnt accept it had asked for information it didnt need when assessing Ms Ds claim or 
considering her complaint.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ds concerns but didnt uphold her complaint.  She was 
satisfied UKI had considered the claim in line with the policy terms and she didnt think UKI 
had asked for information that wasnt relevant. She also thought the compensation offered 
by UKI was fair.  
Ms D has made a number of representations to our Service about why she wants to reject 
the credit note. Shes said shes worried that the cost of flights and her trekking holiday will 
increase in the future making it unaffordable for her. Shes also more recently explained 
shes saving up to get married.
Because Ms D remains unhappy the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the obligations placed on UKI by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not decline claims 
unreasonably. Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Ms Ds travel insurance 
policy, which forms the basis of the contract between Ms D and UKI.
I understand Ms D is unhappy her claim has been turned down and Ive carefully considered 
everything shes said. But based on the evidence presented to me, I agree with our 
investigator and for the same reasons. Let me explain.
Declined claim
Travel insurance is a type of indemnity insurance; an insurance which covers losses or 
damages sustained by the policy holder. But travel insurance policies do not cover every 
eventuality. 
The terms in Ms Ds policy, applicable to the circumstances of the claim she submitted, say:
We wont pay for:
12. recoverable costs
In my experience, this is a common term in travel insurance policies.
Ms D hasnt suffered a financial loss and her costs (the amount she paid for her trekking 
holiday) has been recovered in the form of a credit note. In effect, her holiday hasnt been 
cancelled but deferred to a later date. 
I understand shes worried that the cost of flights and her trekking holiday might increase in 
future and thats understandable, costs can change.  But thats not sufficient reason for me 
to ask UKI to step outside the policy terms. UKI are not responsible for the need to delay Ms 
Ds holiday or the fact that her personal circumstances might change.
Customer service
Im sorry to hear the information given to Ms D when she first contacted UKI was confusing.  
I can understand how frustrating that must have been for her. UKI recognised the impact this 
had and offered her £100.00. Im satisfied the compensation offered to her for the confusion 
caused is sufficient in the circumstances.
And Ive carefully thought about the information UKI asked Ms D to provide in support of her 
claim. I understand Ms D went to considerable trouble to gather what was needed but I dont 
think UKI was unreasonable in that regard.  
UKI needed certain information including booking and cancellation invoices and evidence of 
the payments she made. When it declined her claim, and Ms D made a complaint, it asked 
for further information. For example, when Ms D said she couldnt take any more time away 
from work, UKI asked for more information about that. I dont think thats unreasonable. I can 
see the additional information UKI asked for was as a direct result of what Ms D said about 
the reasons why she didnt want to re-book her trip.
I understand Ms D will be disappointed by this decision. Im sure she was disappointed when 
her holiday couldnt go ahead but as Ive said, thats not something I can hold UKI 
responsible for. Im satisfied based on everything Ive seen that UKI have considered Ms Ds 
claim fairly in line with the terms of her policy.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking U K Insurance 
Limited to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman