DRN-3636022
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) because it declined his claim made when his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr S advertised his car for sale on-line, prospective buyers came and viewed the car. The 
day after some buyers had visited Mr Ss home, Mr S found the car was missing. Mr S 
notified LV and the police. The police advised there was a tracker fitted to the car so Mr S 
paid to activate it. The car was found but had suffered some damage. 
LV told Mr S it was declining his claim. It said his story had changed, there were 
discrepancies, so it couldnt validate the loss. It later told this service it was thinking the 
policy term regarding leaving keys in or around the car might apply. Mr S said he had given 
honest accounts to LV which reflected what he believed to be the truth at each stage. He 
said he wanted LV to cover the damage to the car which its engineer had put at £8,664.22, 
and other losses he said hed incurred. LV wasnt minded to change its view on the claim so 
Mr S complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that LV had not shown good reason to decline the claim. She felt it 
should pay the claim and cover any losses Mr S could show hed incurred. She said LV 
should pay £200 compensation. 
Mr S indicated he was satisfied with the suggested outcome. LV said it had concerns; that 
Mr Ss changing story had prevented it from being able to validate the loss. Our investigator 
replied to LV but LVs position didnt change and it asked for an ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A policyholder, initially, only has to show, on the face of it, that an event, covered by the 
policy occurred. It is then up to the insurer to either settle the claim or decline it. To decline it 
(and where no greater issues with the cover itself exist) an insurer would usually either need 
to rely on an exclusion to cover, or a breach of a policy term. Or show that the event most 
likely didnt happen in the way reported. Doing the latter would often result in a situation 
where the policyholder then had not shown that on the face of it they had a valid claim. 
Rarely will this service find that an insurer, merely setting out either one, or a few, or even a 
list of discrepancies, will have done enough to decline liability for a claim. 
Here I dont think LV has shown that there are really discrepancies or changes in Mr Ss 
story. Mr Ss account of the events running up to theft has evolved, that is true. But not in 
any way that I would think is alarming or likely means Mr S was less than truthful with LV in 
the accounts he gave. I know LV is concerned that Mr S may have contrived the 
circumstances whereupon he came to understand the spare key was in fact a dummy key. In 
some cases, I might have found LVs view of something like that reasonable. But having 
noted LVs view on this and considered Mr Ss account, I dont think there is anything 
concerning. I think it sounds natural and plausible that the spare key was to hand that day 
for Mr S to pick up and use it, thereby noticing it did not work for the car. 
Im also aware that LV seems to doubt that the thieves were most likely those in Mr Ss 
home on the pretence of buying the car. And that LV feels they wouldnt have had chance to 
swap the spare key if Mr S had been careful and paying attention as he has reported. But 
Im not persuaded that is a reasonable view from LV. I think there are professional thieves 
out there who look for high value cars for sale and go to view them with the intent to steal 
them. I dont know that is what happened here. But it simply goes to show that LVs view of 
this situation does not satisfy me, on a removed and impartial consideration, that its most 
likely the theft did not happen in that way and that it is instead most likely it was caused by or 
due to some failure, or worse  some lie, of Mr Ss.
So LV hasnt satisfied that Mr S doesnt, on the face of it, have a valid claim. And it hasnt 
shown that an exclusion or term exists which fairly and reasonably defeats its liability for the 
claim. And LVs engineer has assessed the car and detailed the theft damage that requires 
repair. So the only route left is for LV to settle the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. Whether it repairs the car or chooses to pay for that to be done, it will 
have to bear in mind that the cost for the work identified will now likely have increased as the 
engineers report is dated February 2020. And as is usually the case with complaints made 
to this service where an unreasonable decline has occurred, it will have to cover any losses 
incurred by Mr S too; either covered by the policy or which were reasonably incurred due to 
its unfair decline.
I think the situation has caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience. But I bear in mind 
that he has, since gaining the car back from the police shortly after the theft, mostly had 
access to the car and been able to drive it. Im satisfied that £200 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due. 
Putting things right
I require LV to:
Settle Mr Ss claim under the policy for theft, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Reimburse his costs incurred as covered by the policy or caused due to its unfair decline 
of the claim.
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman