DRN-3189044
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed her account 
incorrectly following the death of her grandmother.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I send my sincere condolences to Miss H and her family for the loss of her 
grandmother. I can see this has been a really challenging time for Miss H. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss H but I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss Hs grandmother had her benefits paid into Miss Hs bank account. I can see 
from Halifaxs system notes that on 18 May it was informed by the benefits provider 
that Miss H had died, not her grandmother. Halifax then blocked the account and 
cancelled direct debits. That same day Miss H went to make a card payment in a 
store and it was refused. She phoned Halifax immediately and the error was noticed 
and reversed. New bank cards were sent to Miss H. Im satisfied the error was 
reversed by Halifax on the same day it both blocked the account and was notified by 
Miss H of the problem.
Its not disputed that Halifax closed Miss Hs bank account in error. And Im 
reassured that it has apologised unreservedly for this. Its left for me to determine 
whether the remedy offered is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Miss H has said shes been placed into financial hardship by this. She said shes had 
to cancel medical appointments and payments. And that shes incurred costs 
including nursery fees of £500 and a phone bill of £270. She said the compensation 
shes been awarded isnt enough given the financial mess, time taken and stress this 
has caused her. She said she also had to take an emergency loan out from the 
council. 
When Halifax put a hold on the account it cancelled some direct debits. Ive looked at 
Miss Hs bank statements and in the preceding few months only one appeared to be 
live. The last monthly payment had been taken on 1 May. Miss H hasnt said any of 
the other cancelled direct debits were due to make a payment during the time period 
she didnt have access to the account. 
Miss H said it took Halifax three weeks to re-open the account. I can see from the 
bank statements that the new debit card was used on 24 May to both make a 
payment and retrieve cash from an ATM. So, Im persuaded Miss H had received her 
new card approximately six days after the account was blocked. Im in no doubt that 
this account block was inconvenient and stressful for Miss H and I do understand that 
it may have taken sometime for her direct debits to have been reset but Im satisfied 
Miss H had access to her account and funds from 24 May. 
Halifax repaid Miss H the £200 emergency loan she took out from the council. 
Neither party has provided any information about these funds but as it was a loan for 
essentials Miss H wouldve been obliged to pay for these essentials herself anyway. 
Halifax paid Miss H £502 to cover late fees she incurred from her sons nursery as 
the bill wasnt paid for two weeks. Again, neither party has provided any further 
information about these funds. I can see one payment to the nursery on 26 March for 
£54 but its not clear to me what, if any, financial losses there were. 
Without further information Im persuaded that as Halifax accepted these financial 
losses it was fair and reasonable for it to compensate Miss H. It also paid Miss H £12 
in phone call costs. As Miss H hasnt provided detail of any further financial loss 
related to the blocking of the account Im satisfied Halifaxs compensation in this 
respect is fair and reasonable. 
Halifax paid Miss H £575 compensation for the severe upset and major 
inconvenience caused by its error. Initially it paid £75, then it increased its award by 
£500. Miss H has told this service about the distress this error has caused her, the 
time it took to rectify the matter and the impact its had on her. Miss H has also 
complained that her passport and drivers licence were cancelled. She said her 
partner received letters to say she had died, and asking if hed like to take over the 
tenancy of the property they were living in. 
There isnt any evidence to suggest Halifax has had anything to do with cancelling 
Miss Hs passport, driving licence or her tenancy agreement. Im persuaded that 
errors made around the time of Miss Hs grandmothers death went beyond Halifaxs 
responsibility. Its my role to determine what is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation to be paid by Halifax only. This whole situation was very upsetting and 
stressful for Miss H. And Halifaxs error did contribute towards that. But it wouldnt be 
fair for me to hold it responsible for errors not of its making.
Halifax reversed the error on the same day it occurred and while I understand it took 
a few days for Miss H to have access to her account again I think the error was 
resolved within a reasonable time frame. Im satisfied that £575 is a fair and 
reasonable amount for the distress and inconvenience this error caused, and what I 
would expect under these circumstances.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has already paid £1,289 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, doesnt need to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman