DRN-3404575
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of their claim about an
escape of water, under their landlords building insurance policy.
I will refer to Mr B in my decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr B has a landlords home emergency policy. In July 2021 his tenant reported a water leak.
He arranged for an engineer to deal with the water leak as an emergency under his policy.
A leak was found behind the washing machine. The engineer thought the leak may be
coming from under the floor, which required further investigation. This wasnt covered under
the emergency policy. But the engineer isolated the water supply, which resolved the
immediate emergency caused by the water leak.
Mr B then made a claim under his landlords building insurance policy.
Mr B says UKI provided inaccurate information that underground service pipes werent
covered by the policy. He says this is covered. He also says he was told alternative
accommodation wouldnt be provided, which UKI admitted was a mistake and offered
compensation as a result
Mr B wasnt happy that an initial inspection would take five days to arrange, as this was an
emergency situation for the family renting the property. He B arranged for his own contractor
to fix the problem and withdrew his claim two days after he registered it. He is unhappy that
his renewal premium has increased because of this claim. And wants compensation for the
hassle he was caused.
UKI says Mr Bs complaint about his emergency policy is being handled separately. But
when he contacted it to register his claim, under his buildings policy, it explained it would
arrange for an assessment of the damage. It says it didnt tell Mr B alternative
accommodation wasnt covered nor did it say underground services werent covered. It says
it had to validate the claim before any decision was made on repairs or alternative
accommodation.
UKI says its claims handler offered £30 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. It didnt
agree it had provided incorrect information but was prepared to honour this payment.
Mr B didnt think this outcome was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought UKIs call handlers had provided
accurate information and followed its process when handling Mr Bs claim. She explained all
claims are recorded, whether withdrawn or not, on the Claims Underwriting Exchange
(CUE). And this information is used by insurers to assess risk and calculate premiums.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong and so didnt ask it to do anything
more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B queries why he was offered compensation if UKI did nothing wrong. He says he has
listened to his calls with UKI and there is a blank section, which he thinks is to hide what was
said. He also says UKI told him data protection reasons prevented its call handler
discussing the matter with its emergency claims team. Because he disagreed with our
investigators decision, he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim relating to Mr Bs emergency policy does not form part of my consideration here.
My focus is the claim under UKIs building insurance and whether it treated Mr B fairly when
handling his claim under this policy.
To understand what was discussed between Mr B and UKI I have listened to the call
recording when he first registered his claim and recordings from two subsequent calls.
During the first call Mr B describes the water leak and that the emergency team at UKI
thought it was from a pipe buried in the concrete floor. Mr B asks that the call handler speak
to the emergency team to understand what was found. UKIs call handler says she cant do
this due to data protection reasons. However, seven minutes into the call she puts Mr B on
hold to go and speak to the emergency claims team.
The call handler comes back onto the call around eleven minutes later and confirms the
issue is thought to be with the mains water pipe. During the call Mr B is told that UKI will
need to inspect the problem before it can accept the claim. And he will receive a call within
24 hours from the company that will do this. There is a discussion around whether
alternative accommodation is provided under the policy. The call handler says UKI can
consider any costs, but it will need to first accept the claim following its inspection.
UKIs call handler explains there may be a difference in the excess payment dependent on
the cause of the leak. She also says she couldnt make the inspection happen more quickly,
having been asked by Mr B, as this was a building insurance claim and not an emergency
service.
Having listened to this call I think it was made clear that an inspection had to take place
before the claim could be accepted and progressed further. Prior to this it hadnt been
verified what the cause of the leak was, or what cover was available under the policy. I think
the explanation of the alternative accommodation cover was accurate. The call handler didnt
say this wasnt available, only that the costs could be considered if the claim was accepted. I
think this was an accurate summary.
I agree with Mr B that he was told by the call handler she couldnt speak to the emergency
team because of data protection. Its not clear why she told him this when seven minutes
into the call she spoke to the emergency claims team for around eleven minutes. When
returning to the call she again confirms she had spoken to the emergency team. In a
subsequent call recording when the same call handler is discussing Mr Bs complaint issues,
she says:we dont go to the emergency team regarding every claim, we cant do that we are just
guided by what you say.
This isnt accurate given the conversation she had with the emergency team during the first
call. I can understand why Mr B is frustrated by the differing information he was provided
around this point.
Mr B spoke to UKI again shortly after registering his claim. During this call he wanted to ask
for more information about alternative accommodation cover. The call handler is abrupt and
talks over Mr B. He said cover would only be considered if the property was uninhabitable.
He says a leaking pipe is inconvenient but doesnt mean the property is uninhabitable. The
call handler is then quick to end the call.
I dont think this call was handled well. The call handler didnt take time to understand the
situation. I also dont think the information he gave was accurate. The previous call handler
had explained that costs could be considered for alternative accommodation if the claim was
accepted. It wasnt clear what the cause of the leak was at that point or what damage had
occurred. The policy terms say:
5 Alternative Accommodation Costs
Costs reasonably and necessarily incurred with Our consent in respect of Alternative
Accommodation whilst the Building is uninhabitable following Damage resulting from an
insured Contingency provided that the maximum period during which payment will be made
under this Extension will not exceed 24 months from the date of the Damage and Our liability
will not exceed £100,000 in total for all claims or series of claims, arising out of any one
original clause.
I think the call handler couldve handled the call better than he did. He shouldve provided
clearer information on when and how costs for alternative accommodation may be covered
by the policy.
I note Mr Bs concerns that a section of the first audio call recording he received is blank. I
understanding this is when the call handler was speaking to the emergency claim team, so it
wasnt captured on the line that was put on hold. I dont think this part of the call was
deliberately erased but rather it wasnt recorded.
Mr B also complains about the increase of his premium as a result of making the claim, even
though he arranged for the problem to be fixed independently. Although I understand his
concerns the point our investigator made about claims being recorded on the CUE database
is accurate. This information is used by insurers to assess risk and calculate premiums. This
is still the case if a claim is later withdrawn. So, I dont think UKI has done anything wrong
here, as it is entitled to record and consider this information when setting premiums.
In summary I think UKI handled Mr Bs claim fairly by arranging for an inspection to be
arranged so the cause could be investigated. Prior to this the claim hadnt been validated so
cover for repairing the leak any damage or alternative accommodation couldnt be
considered.
I dont think UKI treated Mr B fairly in how its second call handler spoke to him including the
inaccurate information he provided. Also, with regards to the inaccurate information its first
call handler gave about not being able to talk to the emergency claims team, and her later
comments that she hadnt spoken to them. Mr B found this frustrating and upsetting.Having considered all of this I think its fair for UKI to pay Mr B a total of £100 compensation.
This is to acknowledge the poor service he received during several of the calls he made
during his claim.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and to require U K Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr B a total of £100 in compensation for the frustration and upset caused by the
poor service he received.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to say all the information Mr B was given was correct. It says it was made 
clear in the initial call that alternative accommodation costs could be considered dependent 
on this being validated. It says Mr B was fully aware of the process from this conversation. 
UKI says contacting the emergency line is not something its claim handler will do. It says this 
happened as a gesture to aid Mr B, which was above and beyond what was expected.
UKI says that on the second call that took place correct information was again given to Mr B 
about alternative accommodation. It doesnt think there is justification to pay him £100 
compensation. It says it agreed to maintain its previous offer of £30 redress as a goodwill 
gesture, but it didnt think this was justified as it didnt think incorrect information had been 
communicated with respect to alternative accommodation cover.   
Mr B responded to say he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said the information confirmed in the first call regarding 
alternative accommodation cover was accurate. The call handler didnt say this wasnt 
available but said the costs would be considered if the claim was accepted. So, I dont think 
UKIs further comments change anything here. 
The first call handler told Mr B she couldnt speak to the emergency team for data protection 
reasons. She then subsequently spoke to the emergency team anyway. I acknowledge UKI 
says this was done as a gesture to aid Mr B. But this is not what he was told on the call. In a 
later call the same call handler again repeated that she doesnt speak to the emergency 
team, when she had in fact done so during the previous call. This caused Mr B to become 
confused. 
The second call handler was very abrupt, spoke over Mr B and seemed keen to end the call 
quickly. UKI says the information this call handler provided was accurate. I said in my 
provisional decision that I dont think this call was handled well. I didnt think the call handler 
took the time to understand the situation. He was abrupt and said the property wasnt 
uninhabitable and alternative accommodation was only available if it was. But it wasnt clear 
what the cause of the leak was at that stage, or what damage had occurred. Mr B wanted 
help in understanding when alternative accommodation would be provided. I dont think the 
call handler was helpful. I acknowledge UKIs comments, but it hasnt changed my view that 
this call was handled poorly.
In summary I think UKI was fair in arranging an inspection to validate the claim. But it didnt 
treat Mr B fairly during the second call when its agent was abrupt and unhelpful. Also, when its first call handler caused confusion with her comments about contacting the emergency 
team.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that U K 
Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr B a total of £100 in compensation for the frustration and upset caused by the
poor service he received.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman