DRN-4116301
The complaint
Mr B complains that his investment in a fund Ill call X has been mismanaged by Valu-Trac 
Investment Management Ltd and this has led to him incurring a loss.  
What happened
Over the course of 2017 and 2018 Mr B invested a total of £22,000 in X indirectly, via a 
platform. In March 2019 the fund was suspended and Valu-Trac took over as its Authorised 
Corporate Director. The suspension was briefly lifted, but in July 2019 a legal claim was 
brought against the fund, which led to it being wound up. 
As part of this process, a series of capital distributions were made between 2019 and early 
2022. Mr B received just over £9,000 back from these, which prompted him to complain to 
Valu-Trac at the end of 2022. He felt the loss hed incurred on his original investment 
demonstrated mismanagement, that being non-compliance with the objective of the fund and 
its investment policy. 
Valu-Trac didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It explained that once it had taken over 
responsibility, it had managed the fund in an orderly manner, monitoring the types of 
holdings, with any sales made to facilitate redemption requests carried out in a manner to 
ensure maximum value was retained. Valu-Trac didnt consider there to have been any 
misrepresentation of the risk involved with the fund and it was satisfied that information 
concerning the distributions had been appropriately communicated. 
In summary, it said the funds performance had already been in decline prior to the transfer 
to its administration, and it had subsequently acted in the best interests of investors in 
accordance with the mandate of the fund, based on the information available to it at the time.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should be 
upheld. She reiterated the background to Valu-Tracs involvement with fund and explained 
that she was satisfied that the risks relating to it had been set out within the fund 
documentation, and that the investment was not guaranteed to provide positive returns.
Mr B said he didnt accept the investigators view and wanted the complaint looked at by an 
ombudsman. He also sought further explanation about why the fund had failed. 
The investigator obtained some more information from Valu-Trac. It reiterated that it had 
been appointed Authorised Fund Manager and administrator of the fund after the previous 
manager entered administration and stressed it hadnt been involved with the management 
of the fund prior to that. It said it was therefore unable to comment on the funds 
performance during the period outside its responsibility and highlighted again that the fund 
had already been suspended when it took over. It said it could add no further comment as to 
why the fund failed beyond the information given in the original letter to the shareholders.
In line with Mr Bs request, the matter was then referred to me to review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I dont think the complaint should be upheld and, further, I dont think theres 
a great deal I can add usefully to whats already been said.
As Valu-Trac explained, its responsibility for the management and administration of the fund 
didnt start until March 2019. Before that a separate business was responsible, and it was 
during that period that issues arose and the fund was first suspended. And as noted, that 
business went into administration. Hence the change to Valu-Trac. 
I note that Mr B has requested we carry out some research into the fund and its failure, but 
unfortunately thats not something that falls within our remit. We act as a dispute resolution 
service to consider complaints about businesses and decide whether (or not) theyve done 
anything wrong and whether any compensation should be paid. 
And in this case, Im satisfied Valu-Trac fulfilled its role correctly during the period for which it 
was responsible for management of the fund, and it therefore shouldnt be held responsible 
for any losses Mr B incurred.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman