DRN-3980152
The complaint
Miss C complains National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank (Ulster) wont 
accept documents shes provided to access money in her accounts with them.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Miss C said her issues began in January 2022 when she used her mobile banking app to 
check on her accounts with Ulster. She has a current account and a savings account. The 
savings account didnt show on the app, and after talking to Ulster about why, she was told 
the account had been marked as dormant. She said as shes now living abroad, she decided 
to transfer the money to her accounts in Spain. To do so, Ulster asked her to provide a 
number of documents, but shes said she cant get what theyve asked.
Ulster said theyd told Miss C of their requirements, but the documents she was providing 
werent as per their requirements  so unfortunately, they couldnt accept them. Ulster set 
out their requirements again. 
Unhappy with this Miss C asked us to look into things, saying she wanted an opinion on 
whether shed given Ulster enough documents to prove matters and allow the transfer.
One of our Investigators found Ulster hadnt done anything wrong, as the documents werent 
what Miss C had been asked to provide.
Miss C was unhappy with this, saying Ulster had changed their requirements on what was 
needed, and she wasnt prepared to spend another €500 when shed already provided what 
was asked. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ulster have said they need:
Certified copy of current valid passport or EIC
Certified copy of a bank statement or utility bill dated within the last six months as 
proof of address
Foreign documents translated into English
And, the certification requirements are:
Wording true copy of the original seen
Signature, name and position of person undertaking certification
Date certified
Certifiers stamp
Full address of certifier and they need to be locatable online
The certifier Miss C used was found online by Ulster, but the certification didnt contain all of 
the above five requirements.
Miss C has asked whether the documents shes provided should be enough for Ulster to 
release the funds. That isnt something I can decide. I say that because its for Ulster to 
decide what documents they reasonably require before releasing funds to any parties. This 
account fell dormant as it was inactive for a significant period of time  and Ulster have 
dormant account processes to follow.
What I can decide is whether Miss C has provided documents that meet Ulsters 
requirements. And, having looked at them, none of the documents meet the certification 
requirements  as none of them have the wording true copy of the original seen. Ive noted 
Miss Cs comment that given she lives in Spain no one has a stamp which says, in English, 
true copy of the original seen. But, what I think Ulster likely need the certifier of the 
document to do, is write those words on the document, not necessarily stamp them.
Miss Cs passport has had a date stamped on it by her certifier  but this doesnt include the 
signature, name and position of the person doing the certifying (and all three components 
are needed here). Nor does it include the address of the person doing the certifying.
Several other documents have been provided, but I wont go through each one. Ultimately all 
the requirements need to be met for me to say Ulster are acting unreasonably by not 
releasing the funds  and that hasnt happened yet. So, at this point, I cant say Ulster 
should have released the money.
Im aware Miss C was able to get access to her current account funds with fewer documents. 
Ulster have explained this is because that account wasnt dormant and had less funds in it. 
Im satisfied with this explanation, so dont think Miss C getting access to her current account 
funds automatically mean she should have the dormant savings funds transferred.
Ive also noted Miss Cs comments about Ulster changing their requirements. I dont think 
thats the case. I think Ulster have attempted to explain things in different ways to help 
Miss C try and provide what they need.
To get access to her funds, Miss C is going to need to meet Ulsters requirements. Im aware 
this is going to cost her more money. That is unfortunate, but I cant say Ulster are 
responsible for the account becoming dormant, nor can I say theyre responsible for her now 
living in another country  both of which have led to the requirements theyve set out. So, 
Ive no grounds on which to expect them to pay for the documents they need.
As things stand, its clear Miss C is struggling to meet Ulsters requirements. Im unclear on 
why that should be given theyve repeated their requirements on several occasions since the 
beginning of these issues. In finding theyve not done anything wrong I could have left 
matters there  because my role is to address the complaint thats been raised.But, clearly, thats an unsatisfactory place to leave things  as it means Miss C cant get her 
money at this point. So, I arranged for us to contact Ulster to find out what options could be 
offered. Theyve said their dormant accounts team is happy to contact Miss C directly, guide 
her through the process, and basically give her a named contact until matters are resolved. 
This named contact can also talk to her certifier where necessary, to guide them on whats 
needed to ensure there are no issues. I leave it with Miss C and Ulster to take things 
forward.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss C sent two emails:
She explained the documents previously provided were all she could get, and shes 
not spending any more time or money
She said all information is there to download from her suppliers company website
Ulster said their only further thoughts are that Miss C does seem to understand what their 
requirements are but isnt happy to meet them because itll cost her money. Ulster reiterated 
theyre happy to provide a point of contact, but their requirements still need to be met. They 
wanted Miss C to be aware of this if she were to agree to my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is of course Miss Cs choice on whether she wishes to take Ulster up on their offer or not 
as Ive no power to compel her to take any action. But, as I explained above, Im satisfied 
theyve not done anything wrong as shes not fulfilled their requirements.
If Miss C were to change her mind at some point in the future and contact them, Id 
encourage Ulster to still work with her in an effort to meet their requirements.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman