DRN-3703533
The complaint
Mrs L (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proper affordability checks before it granted her loans. Had it done so, Mrs L says it wouldve
likely discovered she was over indebted.
What happened
Mrs L was advanced five home collected loans between November 2018 and
September 2020. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 28/11/2018 11/06/2019 33 £10.00
2 £200.00 09/04/2019 29/10/2019 33 £10.00
3 £500.00 11/06/2019 24/01/2020 33 £25.00
4 £500.00 24/01/2020 03/09/2020 34 £25.00
5 £500.00 03/09/2020 30/03/2021 34 £25.00
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. So, where
loans overlapped Mrs Ls weekly commitment was more. For example, when loans 1 and 2
were granted her weekly commitment to Morses was £20 per week.
Following Mrs Ls complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold her complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks before these
loans were advanced.
Mrs Ls representative didnt accept the outcome and instead referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator and it was partly upheld. She thought it was
fair for Morses to have granted loans 1  4. However, she concluded loan 5 shouldnt have
been advanced because it was clear that the lending was now harmful to Mrs L.
Mrs Ls representative acknowledged the adjudicators assessment but hasnt provided any
further comments.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators decision to uphold loan five. In summary it said:
Mrs L only had five loans in two years.
Mrs Ls loan value hadnt increased between loans three and five.
Mrs L had a good repayment history and had repaid her loans early.
Mrs L had a sufficient amount of disposable income to be able to afford the loan
repayments for loan five.
There were no indications of financial difficulties.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and a smaller font 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mrs L appears to have agreed with the adjudicators findings in relation to loans 1  4. So, it
seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding
about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship between Morses and Mrs L.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether it was reasonable to advance loan 5 to Mrs L.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs L could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve considered a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ls
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs L. These factors include:
Mrs L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs L.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs L could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs L was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ls complaint.Loan 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan due to a number of factors. But ultimately, she concluded
that by now this loan was harmful for Mrs L and so it was now unsustainable to continue to
lend to her.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve
concluded that this loan was now so harmful to Mrs L for the reasons Ive outlined below.
I accept, that Mrs L had been indebted with Morses for just under two years, which in some
situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on these loans or at the very least was
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was
consecutive, which could be a sign that Mrs L had a continued need for credit  without a
break. But I also have to keep in mind the loan repayments were fairly modest at £25 per
week, and there were no other overlapping loans at this time.
There also hadnt been any obvious repayment problems  up to this point all the loans had
been repaid at least a week early. So, I dont think I can fairly uphold this loan solely
because in effect Mrs L had been indebted to Morses for around two years.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised that
this loan was unsustainable for Mrs L. But that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done
before advancing this loan.
Mrs L had declared a weekly income of £553 with outgoings of £340 which gave Mrs L a
disposable weekly amount of around £213 to meet her loan repayment of £25 per week.
This may have then led Morses to believe that Mrs L had sufficient disposable income and
could afford the loan repayment.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think, by this time,
considering the time in debt and the fact that Mrs Ls lending hadnt decreased since she
started borrowing ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about
Mrs Ls financial position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mrs L declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Mrs L could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Ls actual financial position to
ensure loan 5 was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements. This mightve helped verify
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information Morses mightve
needed to consider about Mrs Ls general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that
Mrs L couldnt afford the loan.
Mrs Ls representative hasnt been able to provide copies of her bank statements (which
may have shown us and Morses what other commitments Mrs L had and / or her living
costs) or any other information that may have shown what Mrs Ls financial position was at
the time.
So, without any further information from Mrs L about her living costs and her wider financial
position, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it made better
checks.
Looking at everything together, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest Morses
shouldnt have lent loan 5. Even considering what Mrs L declared to Morses for her incomeand expenditure. Im therefore minded to think it was reasonable for Morses to have
provided this loan.
As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Mrs Ls complaint about this loan and
therefore Im not intending to uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Response to the Provisional Decision 
Both Mrs L and Morses were asked to provide any further information they wanted 
considering in response to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but no later than 
16 September 2022. 
Mrs Ls representative explained the decision would be sent to Mrs L and it will provide to 
the Financial Ombudsman any further comments it receives. To date, nothing further has 
been received from either Mrs L or her representative. 
Morses didnt acknowledge or respond to the provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for my consideration, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out proportionate checks before it approved loan 5. But 
Mrs L hasnt provided any information about her living costs and credit commitments at the 
time, so I cant reasonably conclude that Morses was wrong to have approved not just loan 
5, but all of Mrs Ls loans. 
I am therefore not upholding Mrs Ls complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman