DRN-2325886
The complaint
Miss C complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds delay in repairing damage theyd caused 
to her pipes, and poor customer service.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for 
these reasons:
Aviva has acknowledged Miss C didnt receive an appropriate level of customer 
service and awarded her £100 in recognition of the inconvenience they caused. Im 
pleased to see they tried to take steps to put things right.
Miss C says the award should be more in the region of £500 because of the number 
of times she had to take time off work, and chase Aviva for updates. And had she not 
proactively tried to find out what was happening with the repairs, Aviva wouldnt have 
updated her. While I agree, Miss C shouldnt have been put in that position, I dont 
agree that £500 is appropriate in the circumstances.
When deciding an appropriate award, Ive had to consider the period of time Miss C 
was inconvenienced by Avivas mistakes. The information provided shows Miss C 
was mainly inconvenienced for a period of around two weeks. This was from the end 
of October 2019 when Avivas engineer was meant to repair the damage theyd 
previously caused to her pipes.
Miss C undoubtedly went through a difficult time, through no fault of her own. But 
I dont agree it was such an extended period of time that warrants £500 
compensation. Having said that, I dont consider Avivas £100 goes quite far enough 
to recognise what Miss C went through over those two weeks. So, I agree with our 
investigator that the award should be increased to a total of £150.
For these reasons, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint  albeit not quite in the way she hoped.
Putting things right
To put things right, Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Miss C an additional £50 for the 
confusion and inconvenience she experienced as a result of their mistakes and poor 
communication.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Miss C an additional £50 for the inconvenience they 
caused.
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell them Miss C accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If Aviva Insurance Limited consider theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to
withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss C how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman