The complaint
Mr D has complained that Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd mis-sold his term assurance 
policy, leading the insurer to reduce the payment to him when he made a claim.
What happened
Mr D took out a level term assurance policy with an insurer Ill call A in July 2017. The 
policy was sold by a representative of Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF). The policy 
provided a benefit of £206,550 over a term of 25 years. The benefit would be payable upon 
death or diagnosis of a listed critical illness.
Mr D sadly suffered a heart attack in August 2018 so a claim for critical illness benefit was 
submitted to A. During the assessment of the claim, A found out that Mr D had 
misrepresented his smoking status in his application form. A said it wouldve charged Mr D a 
higher premium if it had known he was using a nicotine product at the time of the application. 
So, in line with the relevant law, it reduced the claim payment according to the proportion of 
the full premium he ought to have paid for the cover.
Mr D complained to A about this, saying hed told the AMF adviser he used an e-cigarette. 
This was the subject of a separate complaint with our service, which wasnt upheld.
Mr D then complained to AMF. He said he told the adviser about his e-cigarette use and the 
adviser had failed to record this in his application form. AMF didnt think Mr D had disclosed 
this to the adviser. It said the first illustration showed Mr D was a non-smoker, but the 
application was changed to show he was a previous smoker. It said Mr D was sent a copy of 
his application form to check, and he hadnt made any changes to it.
Mr D remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He thought the AMF adviser had most likely asked Mr D about his 
smoking habits and nicotine use and had recorded the answer he gave at the time. He also 
thought Mr D had been given the chance to change his answer to this question by A if it had 
been recorded incorrectly.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr D asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman to decide. Mr D said he answered the question put to him honestly and told the 
adviser about his e-cigarette use. Mr D accepted hed been given the opportunity to check 
his application and had overlooked the mistake, but he didnt think it was fair he should take 
the responsibility for the advisers initial error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1117481Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr D, so Ill 
explain why.
Mr D says he told the AMF adviser that he used an e-cigarette. I cant know for certain what 
was discussed at the time, so I have to make my decision based on what I think is most 
likely.
The copy of Mr Ds application form provided by A shows Mr Ds answer to whether he used 
tobacco or nicotine as, Completely stopped more than 12 months ago. I think its unlikely 
the adviser wouldve recorded this as Mr Ds answer if he had in fact said he used e-
cigarettes. I say this because the question being answered required details of use of 
cigarettes, cigars, a pipe or any other tobacco or nicotine products including nicotine gums, 
patches, inhalers, tablets, lozenges, sprays and electronic products, even if only on an 
occasional basis.
As an e-cigarette is both a nicotine product and an electronic product, the adviser would 
most likely have known that A would want to know about Mr Ds e-cigarette use. And they 
wouldve also been aware of the consequences if Mr D didnt provide accurate answers. So, 
if Mr D had told the adviser he used e-cigarettes I think they would most likely have chosen 
the appropriate answer to this question, which was regular, occasional or social use 
instead.
Its also possible the adviser made a mistake recording Mr Ds answer to this question. But 
even if the adviser made the initial mistake, I dont think its reasonable to hold AMF 
responsible for the impact of this. I say this because mistakes happen  an adviser may 
have misheard a response to a question or recorded the answer incorrectly by accident. This 
is why there is an extra step in the process before a policy is confirmed and the applicant is 
given the opportunity to check that everything is correct. 
A provided Mr D with a copy of his application form and its acceptance terms, both of which 
highlighted that he had said he was a previous smoker, having completely stopped more 
than 12 months ago. This wasnt correct. The covering letter told Mr D that he should check 
the information carefully because if anything was wrong, it might cancel the policy or not pay 
out on a claim. But Mr D didnt tell A about any errors in the application form.
I know Mr D most likely overlooked the mistake made in the application form about his 
nicotine use, but he was ultimately responsible for providing the right answers to A. He was 
also given an opportunity to check his application, knowing what would happen if anything 
was wrong. Because Mr D had this extra opportunity to correct the mistake, I dont think 
AMF is responsible for the misrepresentation and the impact on Mr Ds claim payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2019.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman