DRN-3628051
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy as he says that a British Gas Insurance Limited engineer should have 
noticed a leak coming from his boiler, when they gave it an annual service. He says failure to 
do so, caused increased damage and repair costs. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for these reasons:
Mr W reported a leak from his boiler in October 2021. The air pressure valve and a 
cracked flue pipe were replaced. He says this should have been identified earlier and 
certainly during a service caried out by a British Gas engineer in July 2021. If it had, 
he says further damage would have been avoided. 
For me to uphold this complaint, I would have to be satisfied that it is more likely than 
not, that an error occurred during the July 2021 service. That the engineer didnt 
identify and report a leak and the need to replace the valve, as they should have. 
However, I dont find that to be the case.
I understand that Mr W has said that this issue would have been going on for years. 
He says that an independent engineer has told him that the valve would have needed 
replacing a long time prior to October 2021. However, Im not satisfied that the British 
Gas engineer made an error and that there was any identifiable issue at the time of 
previous services.
I say this because British Gas have said they would have reported a leak and none 
were mentioned on the completed checklist. The safety summary was all ticked as 
clear. Mr W himself didnt notice and report any leak until October 2021, almost three 
months after the engineer had visited. We cant be sure when the leak began and 
when it was first identifiable that the valve needed replacing, and I havent seen 
enough to fairly conclude that this would have been in July 2021. 
Mr Ws policy only covered repair or replacement to the boiler, when it had stopped 
working. I havent seen anything to suggest that this was prior to October 2021. I am 
satisfied that the British Gas engineers did what was required of them during 
previous services, under the terms of the policy.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ws frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about British Gas Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman