DRN-2863029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Europ Assistance S.A. declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
 In January 2020, Mr and Mrs M booked flights abroad; departing on 9 May 2020 and 
returning to the UK on 16 May 2020. They subsequently also booked (and paid for) their 
accommodation whilst abroad and airport car parking in connection with their planned trip.
Around the same time as booking their flights, Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip, multi-risk, 
travel insurance policy, underwritten by Europ (the policy).
Their flights were cancelled by the airline around the end of April 2020 due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel on 
17 March 2020 and that guidance remained in place at the time their flights were cancelled - 
and when Mr and Mrs M were due to travel on 9 May 2020.
The airline offered to either refund the cost of their flights or provide a voucher to Mr and Mrs 
M to rebook their flights at a later date.
  
In early May 2020, Mr and Mrs M made a claim under the policy to include the cost of the 
accommodation theyd already paid for and airport parking costs. 
Europ declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim on the basis that the reason which led to the trip being 
cancelled wasnt covered under the cancellation section of the policy. Mr and Mrs M didnt 
think that was fair, so complained to our Service. 
Our investigator upheld their complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not 
listed in the cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy 
which said Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been covered if theyd travelled against the advice 
FCO. So, our investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Europ to decline the 
claim for the reason it did. He concluded that it would be fair and reasonable for Europ to 
treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. And he recommended 
Europ to assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Europ didnt agree. It said the event which lead to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms trip 
was not only not covered by the general terms and conditions of the insurance contract, but 
also expressively excluded.
This complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly;
not unreasonably reject a claim.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so a customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of
excluded risks.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the 
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The policy terms and conditions
Page 5 of the policy terms and conditions says:
You should read this document carefully. It gives you full details of what is and is not 
covered and the conditions of the cover. Cover will vary from policy to policy and 
insurer to insurer.
Pages 11 and 12 of the policy terms and conditions set out the policy cancellation and 
curtailment terms. It says:
The insurer will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits, for your 
proportion of the cancellation costs, or curtailment costs which you have paid or you 
are contractually obliged to pay and which you cannot recover from any source, if it is 
necessary and unavoidable to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of: 
a. Death, serious injury or illness during the period of insurance of:
 you, or 
 a person you are travelling with, or 
 a relative, or 
 a close business associate who lives 
 in your country of residence, or 
 a friend or relative who lives abroad, with whom you were staying. b. You, or the person you are travelling with:
 being required in your country of residence for jury service or as a witness in a court 
              of law, or 
 being placed under compulsory quarantine, or 
 being required to be present by the police, as a result of your, or their home or  
  usual place of business in your country of residence suffering a burglary within  
  seven days before the start of your trip 
 suffering accidental damage to your, or their home that renders the home 
  uninhabitable, within seven days before the start of your trip. 
 being made redundant, providing you qualify for redundancy payment under current 
  redundancy legislation 
 being posted overseas or receiving emergency requirements of duty in the Armed 
  Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services.
The policy goes on to list whats not covered under the cancellation and curtailment section 
of the policy and that includes on page 12 (sub-section (f)):
any costs in respect of the following: 
any claims arising directly, or indirectly from the cancellation or curtailment   
      of travel arrangements, in any way caused by, or contributed to by any 
      order or recommendation issued by a government, public or local authority. 
      This includes, but is not limited to, orders or recommendations issued by 
      any civil or federal aviation authority. 
Pages 21 to 23 of the policy set out the general exclusions applicable to all sections of the 
policy. So, that includes the cancellation and curtailment section. 
Exclusion 5 on page 22 states that the policy doesnt cover:
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from you travelling against Foreign Office (or 
any government body) advice or where it is deemed unsafe for you to travel. 
Ill refer to this as the Foreign Office exclusion.
The IPID
Europ has provided us with a copy of the IPID which it says Mr and Mrs M wouldve received 
around the time the policy was sold to them.
Page 1:
Under the heading: What is insured?, the IPID says: 
Travel Cancellation: financial loss you incurred due to the cancellation of the 
covered Travel in case of one of the insured events occurs before the Travel starts.
Under the heading: What is not insured?, the IPID says:
With reference to Trip Cancellation and Curtailment: claims not approved and 
supported by written medical notice prior to your return to your country, airport taxes, 
failure to have vaccines, passport or relevant visa, criminal proceedings, redundancy, late arrival at the airport after check-in, expenses to return to your country if you are 
not in possession of a pre-paid return ticket, service fees;
Page 2:
Under the heading: Are there any restrictions on cover? the IPID sets out the general 
restrictions as:
General restrictions
We will not pay more than the amount shown in the policy for each 
insured person;
Consequences of a pre-existing medical condition;
Acts intentionally caused totally or partially by an Insured, a Family 
Member or a Travel Companion;
Serious illness or serious accidents derived from the consumption of 
alcoholic beverages, narcotics, drugs;
Epidemics or infectious diseases;
War, demonstrations, insurrections, acts of terrorism, sabotage, nuclear 
detonation, radioactive contamination;
Consequences resulting from the use or possession of explosives or 
firearms;
Consequences of the use of drugs or medication as such;
Consequences of alcoholic cirrhosis;
Any phenomenon triggered by the force of nature.
Has Mr and Mrs Ms claim been unfairly declined?
At the time Mr and Mrs Ms flights were cancelled, around the end of April 2020, the FCO 
was advising against all but essential travel outside of the UK. That advice remained in place 
on the date Mr and Mrs M were due to travel; 9 May 2020.
I accept that isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation cover is 
provided under the terms of the policy as set out above. 
Further, I accept the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy terms and conditions 
excludes claims relating to travel arrangements having to be cancelled due to an order or 
recommendation issued by government. 
But Im also conscious that even if Mr and Mrs Ms had been able to arrange another flight 
and travelled abroad on 9 May 2020, as theyd initially planned - and disregarding the advice 
given by the FCO at the time - the Foreign Office exclusion says they wouldnt have been 
covered for any claims arising directly or indirectly relating to Covid-19. This being the 
reason for the FCOs advice to avoid all but essential travel. As such, Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve had no cover under the policy including benefits for missed departure, cover for 
emergency medical treatment or lost/stolen possessions. And the policy wouldve been, in 
effect, of no use to them at all.  
So, in light of the policy terms and content of the IPID, I need to consider whether I think its 
fair and reasonable for Europ to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim in all the circumstances of this 
case. And in doing so, Ive taken into account the industry rules and guidance set out above, 
as well as relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 
2015).The IPID is designed to ensure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. But the Foreign Office exclusion isnt set out 
anywhere in the IPID. And the What is not insured and Are there any restrictions on cover? 
sections of the IPID dont state that customers wont be covered if their trip is cancelled as a 
result of government restrictions or due to the FCO advising against all but essential travel.
Further, the policy doesnt specify that there is no cover if a holiday is cancelled should the 
FCO advice change between the date the policy was bought and the date on which the 
policyholder was due to start their trip. I also note that cover for cancellation of a holiday in 
such a situation doesnt appear to have been available for Mr and Mrs M to purchase as an 
additional add on or optional extra. 
 
Page 1 of the terms and conditions of the policy contains a table of benefits which reflects 
that there is cover for cancellation/curtailment. The limit of cover is £3,000 per person. And 
the IPID refers the customer to this table of benefits to understand the financial limits of each 
benefit.
However, the IPID doesnt specifically refer the customer to the policy document for more 
information about the policy. It simply says: the complete information on the product is 
provided in the pre-contractual and contractual documents.
Page 5 of the policy terms and conditions asks the customer to carefully read the terms.  
As such, a consumer would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to 
establish whether they were able to claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes 
to FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy. And even when a consumer reaches pages 
11 and 12 of the policys terms and conditions - which sets out the available cover if their trip 
is cancelled  a claim arising from a change in FCO advice isnt listed as a specific 
exclusion. Instead, it refers to cover not being in place if a trip is cancelled as a result of 
government, public or local authority restrictions. Thats not the same language used in the 
FCO exclusion. I also think its important in this particular case that the Foreign Office 
exclusion isnt presented in the same place. A consumer would have to read on another 10 
pages to locate this. 
So, I dont think it would be reasonably obvious to a customer that thered be no cover under 
the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they purchased their 
policy and the trip was cancelled. And that they also wouldnt be covered if they disregarded 
FCO advice and travelled anyway. A consumer would need to cross refer this information 
with different sections of the policy terms to understand how these terms interrelated with 
one another. 
And even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to easily understand 
the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and the Foreign 
Office exclusion are presented under the other sections of the policy separately means their 
combined effect isnt clear. 
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between Mr 
and Mrs M and Europ. 
As a result of the FCO advice which came into effect on 17 March 2020, which was still in 
place at the time Mr and Mrs Ms trip was cancelled and at the date on which their trip was 
due to start, Mr and Mrs M were left without any cover had they still decided to travel abroad 
on 9 May 2020. And if their trip was cancelled, they werent covered either. This shifted the 
rights and obligations under the contract significantly in Europs favour and I think this left Mr 
and Mrs M in an unfair position. Im not satisfied that the terms and conditions properly took Mr and Mrs Ms interests into
account, and - if theyd realised that was how the policy would operate - Im not persuaded 
they wouldve freely agreed to a policy that left them with such limited cover in these 
circumstances.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented isnt fair, and Europ isnt acting in the best interests of Mr and Mrs M, as its 
customers, when presenting the information in this way. 
And as such, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Europ to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim isnt covered on the basis that it isnt detailed as an insured peril under the cancellation 
section of the policy and excluded under the same section (on the basis that the reasons for 
the trip being cancelled was caused by, or contributed to by any order or recommendation 
issued by a government, public or local authority).
 
When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a 
policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. 
However, the issue Im considering here is whether I think the specific exclusion from cover 
of cancellation claims arising from a change in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to 
Mr and Mrs M. And I dont think it was. For the reasons set out above, I think the combined 
effect of the policy terms and IPID in this case means it wasnt made reasonably clear or 
obvious to a reasonable policyholder that cover would be significantly restricted if they 
travelled against FCO advice. And nor was it made reasonably clear that theres no cover in 
place at all if they cancelled their travel plans on the basis of FCO advice changing in 
between buying the policy and their intended departure date.
Ive also taken into account that Europ has said that Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel their flights; 
that was a decision taken by the airline. And as such, the claim isnt covered. However, I 
think thats a different issue to the one Im deciding. In any event, I understand Mr and Mrs 
Ms claim under the policy was for unused accommodation costs and pre-paid airport car 
park fees, not for the flights. I can see that Mr and Mrs M were given a choice by the airline 
to either receive a refund of the amount theyd paid for the flights or to accept a voucher to 
the value of the flights (and rebook) their flights for a later date. Any voucher was due to 
expire on 9 May 2021 and if it hadnt been used, the airline said Mr and Mrs M would still be 
entitled to a refund. 
 
Putting things right
Europ should assess Mr and Mrs Ms claim as if the reason which led to the trip being 
cancelled is covered as an insured peril under the cancellation section the policy. 
Any assessment will be subject to all remaining terms and conditions of the policy  
including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I direct Europ Assistance S.A. to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman