DRN-3679979
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) charged her account 
fees after she says it had previously waived its entitlement to do so. 
Mrs S believes she has paid fees she should not have been charged. To put things right, 
Mrs S would like the fees to be refunded. 
Im grateful to Mrs Ss representative for his assistance throughout this complaint. However, 
to help keep things simpler, Ill mostly refer in my decision to Mrs S since this is a complaint 
about her account. 
What happened
When Mrs S opened her execution-only trading account on IISLs platform in 2014, she told 
us that she benefitted from a promotion which meant she wouldnt be charged the usual 
quarterly account fee. 
When Mrs S realised that IISL had been charging her account fees since 2018, she 
complained as she felt that IISL was wrong to charge her when it had previously waived its 
fee entitlement.
IISL said that, over the years, in line with its terms and conditions, it had made some 
changes to fees which had been notified to all customers and it didnt uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
Mrs S wasn't happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us. She said that 
IISL was relying on changes to its terms and conditions to justify the levying of the fees, and 
whilst it had always had the right to charge Mrs S account fees, it waived that right. Mrs S 
said that changing the terms and conditions did not affect this previous waiver so it remained 
effective. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She didnt think that IISL had unfairly 
applied the account fees. In brief summary, she said that:
in 2017, IISL updated its terms and conditions and removed the fee promotion which 
meant fees became payable
IISLs terms and conditions allowed it to do this  and Mrs S would have signed up to 
the account terms when opening the account
IISL was able to decide to charge fees  and this Service couldnt interfere with a 
business decision as we werent the industry regulator 
before making changes to Mrs Ss account we would expect IISL to have given her at 
least 30 days notice and it appeared IISL had done this
the investigator detailed various messages and emails she was satisfied IISL had 
sent to Mrs S advising her about new fee arrangements 
IISL had given Mrs S the option to close her account and so avoid fees in good time 
before the new fee structure was introduced.
So the investigator concluded that IISL didnt need to do anything more.    
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. In brief summary, 
she said :
the investigator had not addressed the point that IISL had granted a waiver of fees to 
which they were otherwise entitled 
so a variation of contract didnt matter and made no difference. 
the investigator had not provided anything that shows what the original contract 
stated and how that was varied and only evidenced a term that entitled IISL to vary 
the contract. Mrs S put things this way: If your decision is that the contract was 
varied I would at the very least have expected what you believed the original contract 
stated and what this was varied to.
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
Whilst I have summarised the main issues in my own words, sometimes in less detail than 
Mrs S, and I wont necessarily comment on everything Mrs S has mentioned, thats because 
Ive concentrated on what seems to me to be the core issue. This reflects the fact that we 
provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. Its my 
role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have reached my 
conclusions. I will take into account the relevant law, regulatory requirements and best 
industry practice and I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome 
of Mrs Ss complaint. I would just mention though that it is not within the remit of this service 
to decide matters of contract law which come under court jurisdiction.  
The crux of Mrs Ss complaint, as I understand it, is that IISL should never have charged 
her any account fees because it had initially agreed not to charge her account fees when 
she opened her account.
Its not in dispute that IISL previously offered a scheme which enabled existing customers 
to nominate family members to join the platform who could then benefit from not having to 
pay the quarterly account fee, which was £20 at the time. 
IISL says it cant confirm if Mrs Ss account was opened under that scheme  but I've no 
reason to doubt Mr S when he says this is what happened. I find its likely that Mrs S did 
initially sign up to the account on the understanding that she wouldnt be charged the 
quarterly fee. 
I dont need to see the exact terms of the promotional offer that persuaded Mrs S to open 
an account with IISL because her complaint turns on the issue of whether the account 
terms she wouldve signed up to could subsequently be changed. 
It doesnt follow that IISL wouldnt ever be entitled to charge Mrs S an account fee even if 
she wasnt charged a fee at the outset. I say this because the agreement Mrs S wouldve entered into with IISL when she signed 
up to the platform was governed by IISLs terms and conditions  and those allow IISL to 
change the existing terms of its agreements with its customers.
The investigator set out the relevant part of IISLs terms and conditions in her view letter 
and Mrs S hasnt taken issue with the wording. So I dont think I need to say much more 
about the terms and conditions, except to highlight that these say IISL can change, 
amend, supplement or delete any part of these Terms. which includes making new 
or different charges to those set out from time to time where IISL has a valid reason for 
doing so. 
I appreciate that Mrs S feels strongly that the terms and conditions are irrelevant to the 
issue of waiver. But what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold 
this complaint. I need to decide if IISL has done anything wrong or acted unfairly or 
unreasonably so the terms and conditions are an important consideration. And based on 
the account terms and conditions that applied to Mrs Ss account, I cant fairly say that 
IISL wasnt entitled to introduce new charges  even if it hadnt charged a fee on the 
account previously. 
IISL was entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  to 
set its own fees and make changes to its fee arrangements. IISL still however needed to 
make changes to the account in a way that was fair and reasonable. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account the following: 
Ive seen a copy of a letter IISL sent to customers who had not been charged 
previously reminding them that: We recently wrote to you to explain about the 
new Terms and rates and charges that will apply from 11th December 2017, when 
your account moves to our new platform. 
IISL explained that: In return for your quarterly payment well look after your 
assets safely and well also give you £22.50 of trading credits, which you can use 
to pay for your trading commissions, including regular investing and dividend 
reinvestment commissions.
The letter also included the following information: We appreciate that, as you 
have not previously made quarterly payments, this is a change to your service. So 
if you wish to close your account with us or wish to transfer to another provider 
please let us know before the 10th of December 2017 and we will waive any 
transfer out fees that would ordinarily apply
IISL sent this letter to Mrs S via its secure messaging service on 8 November 
2017. So Ive no reason to think Mrs S wouldnt have received that information 
and it shouldve been clear to Mrs S that she needed to take action in the next 
30 days if she wanted to avoid incurring fees on her account. 
IISL increased quarterly fees to £22.50 starting from January 2018. The effect of 
its new terms and conditions was that any former promotions or offers were 
stopped at this point. Mrs S continued to operate her account subject to the new 
fee arrangement. 
Subsequently, IISL sent Mrs S a secure message on 19 April 2019 explaining a 
further change to the fee structure, again providing at least 30 days of notice. Further messages were sent this way in April 2019, advising that the fee structure 
would change to monthly payments, beginning June 2019. And in August 2020, a 
message was sent advising that a simplified fee structure was being put in place 
from 1 October 2020.
IISL told us that its system automatically generates an email notification which is 
sent to the customers registered email to prompt the customer to login to their 
online account and read the message. 
So, taking all this into account, I am satisfied that IISL took fair and reasonable steps to 
ensure that changes to its fees, which I have found it was entitled to make, were 
adequately notified to Mrs S. And overall, I cant fairly say that IISL has done anything 
wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
So this is why Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
It follows that I cant award the compensation she is seeking.Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S. But I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how 
I've reached my conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome Mrs S hoped for, she 
will at least feel that her complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman