DRN-3319579
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. They arent happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under their mobile phone insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Assurant are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H made a claim under their mobile phone insurance policy. And after the 
phone was repaired and returned there remained a problem with it and so the phone was 
returned again to Assurant for further repair. 
Assurant told Mr H that the repaired phone was returned to him when it wasnt. This meant 
that Mr H thought the phone had been stolen and blamed the delivery company. However, 
Assurant eventually established that it had lost the phone. It apologised to Mrs and Mr H and 
offered £200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. And it offered to 
provide a comparable phone as their particular model wasnt available or pay a cash 
settlement. But Mrs and Mr H didnt think the phones offered were comparable or the cash 
settlement allowed them to buy a similar phone and thought that the compensation should 
be higher and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. He thought the 
phones Assurant offered werent comparable and that Assurant should do more given it had 
lost the phone and caused the problems Mrs and Mr H faced. He thought that it should pay 
Mrs H and Mr H the original cost of the phone and he thought that the compensation should 
be lifted to £250.
As Assurant didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know Assurant wont be happy 
about this, but Ill explain why.
As Mrs and Mr H have outlined Assurant have simply made a mistake here and lost their 
phone. They were expecting their phone to be repaired properly in the first place and yet 
they had to return it as the screen on the phone was cracked. And then Assurant told them 
the phone had been delivered when it hadnt before realising that it had in fact lost the 
phone. 
Assurant has looked to consider its loss of Mrs and Mr Hs phone in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. But as our investigator and Mrs and Mr H have outlined there isnt anything 
within the policy terms and conditions that covers circumstances like these. In this instance 
Assurant has lost Mrs and Mr Hs phone when they were expecting a fully repaired phone 
back. So, I dont think it would be fair to force settlement by solely following the policy as the 
circumstances that led to the loss are purely down to Assurants error.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for Assurant to put Mrs and Mr H back into the position they should have been 
but for its error. And as Mrs and Mr Hs phone had a greater specification and memory on 
their phone than the comparable ones Assurant offered, and the cash settlement offered 
wont allow them to buy the same phone, I think it is fair that Assurant pays them the original 
cost of the phone. Then Mrs and Mr H can choose what they wish to do now in relation to a 
replacement - after all Assurant lost their phone. 
Turning to the level of compensation I agree that it must have been stressful and 
embarrassing for Mr and Mrs H, especially as they accused their delivery company and 
driver (who was known to them) of stealing their phone when Assurant had lost it. I know 
they want £400 in compensation, but I feel that £250 feels fair, especially as Assurant is 
paying the full cost of their phone. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr H the cost of their phone (£879.20) and £250 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman