DRN-2887377
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral has made an unreasonable offer of settlement for his claim,
following an escape of water at his home. He wants Admiral to reimburse him for the costs
that he has already paid for the work.  
What happened
In February 2019 Mr A discovered a leak at his home. This leak had originated in the second 
floor bathroom and had caused water to flood the bathroom floor and second floor bedroom,
and the first-floor bedroom below.
Mr A contacted a plumber to repair the leak immediately and the contacted Admiral to submit
a claim.
Admiral established some basic information from Mr A and appointed a third-party group to
deal with the claim. A loss adjuster, on behalf of Admiral, attended the property to inspect
the damage. The loss adjuster then prepared a schedule of works.
A few days after the leak, Mr A contacted Admiral and asked if he could lift and dispose of
the carpets, as these were beginning to smell. He was advised that he could dispose of
these.
Mr A obtained two quotes for repair work and provided these to Admiral. These were for
£5520 + VAT and £6100 + VAT respectively. Mr A began repair works with the contractor
who provided the lower of the two quotes.
Admiral carried out some investigations and satisfied itself that it ought to settle the claim.
In November 2019, Admiral prepared a settlement offer of £2622.33, including VAT.
This offer of settlement was made to Mr A in January 2020. Mr A queried the assessment
and, comparing it to the schedule of works to the quote he had received, noted that the
schedule of works neglected that the ceiling to be replaced was lath and plaster.
Admiral revised its settlement offer and in May 2020 the offer was increased to £3973.70
including VAT.
Mr A was not happy with this and complained.
Admiral sent its final response acknowledging that there had been delays in dealing with Mr
As claim. Admiral offered Mr A settlement for his repairs at £3973.70 including VAT, £200
for his trouble and upset at having to raise the issue of the ceiling type, £50 for delay, and
£64.48 which represented interest on the settlement.
Mr A was not satisfied with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This was
that the works undertaken by Mr As contractor appeared to exceed to scope of works
prepared by Admiral and that Admiral only needed to cover the works included in the scope
of works. He did not think that there was evidence that Admiral had acted unreasonably in
the way it had settled the claim and he did not ask Admiral to do anything further.
Mr A did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
My Provisional Decision and the parties responses
I set out my provisional view in a decision issued to the parties in May 2021. 
In this decision, I explained that I thought the onus was on Admiral to show that its 
assessments of costs was fair as Admiral had allowed Mr A to commission and pay for 
repair works at market rates. 
I therefore felt that Admiral ought to demonstrate where its assessment of reasonable costs 
differed from the costs Mr A had incurred, and this must be in a form which could be shared 
with Mr A. I thought that Admiral should reimburse Mr A for costs which he incurred (in 
excess of the amount already paid) along with 8% interest on those sums, and £250 for his 
trouble and upset. 
My provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
submit comments and evidence. 
Mr A has responded to the decision, querying what evidence would be required to 
demonstrate he paid for the work. He has explained that many of the instalment payments 
were made in cash and he has provided evidence of cash withdrawals. 
Admiral has not responded to my provisional decision and has not provided any comments 
or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of further comments or evidence regarding the substance of my decision, my 
view remains the same and I adopt my provisional decision as my final decision. 
Admiral has not demonstrated that the sums quoted to Mr A were excessive or beyond the 
scope of works, when taking into account the added carpets which were agreed after the 
schedule of works. 
I therefore consider that Admiral ought to take further steps to put matters right.   
Putting things right
As set out in my provisional decision, I think Admiral ought to reimburse the costs which Mr 
A can demonstrate he has paid towards the quote he acted upon (from contractor B). 
Admiral has already paid some of the claim amount to Mr A, but where Mr A can 
demonstrate that he has paid more than this (up to the maximum quote amount of 
£5520+VAT) then Admiral should reimburse this and also pay interest at the rate of 8% per 
annum from the date of payment, up until settlement. 
Admiral should also pay (if it has not already done so) a total of £250 compensation for Mr As trouble and upset. 
Mr A has queried what evidence of payment will be required. 
It is a matter for Admiral what evidence it will accept, but I would expect as a minimum that 
appropriate evidence would include confirmation on letterheaded paper from the contractor 
confirming that the quoted for work was done, and that payment for it has been received. 
Confirmation should make clear the total amount paid for the quoted work and if payment 
was made on a staged basis, I would expect the date of the final payment to be made clear, 
for the purposes of calculating interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision dated 21 May 2021, I uphold Mr 
As complaint and direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Reimburse to Mr A costs which he can demonstrate that he incurred, beyond the 
payment which has already been made (up to a maximum of £5520 + VAT);
In relation to the above reimbursement, to pay to Mr A interest of 8% per annum from 
the date of payment up until the date of settlement; and
to pay to Mr A total compensation of £250 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman