DRN-3354318
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain British Gas Services Limited treated them unfairly when their boiler 
stopped working and they needed assistance under their homecare cover policy.
What happened
On 5 February 2021, Mr and Mrs S contacted British Gas because their boiler 
showed a low pressure reading. 
British Gas said the earliest date an engineer could attend was 25 February 2021. 
Shortly after the call, the boiler stopped working altogether, so Mr S called back.
He explained that he and Mrs S are elderly and how they couldnt be without heating 
or hot water. British Gas said the earliest an engineer could attend was 11 February 
2021.  But it said Mr S could arranged his own engineer and it would reimburse him 
the cost.
Mr S arranged his own engineer, who attended the same day. The engineer said 
British Gas had missed a fault with the boiler which should have been identified when 
it was serviced the previous year.
British Gas reimbursed Mr and Mrs S the cost of this. 
Mr and Mrs S complained that engineers should have been available sooner, theyd 
been without heating for several days, the telephone system wasnt good enough 
and the service had been poor. British Gas paid £75 to recognise the difficulties 
theyd experienced
Mr and Mrs S also said British Gas failed to spot a fault with their boiler when it was 
serviced in 2020 and so, they want the 2021 premiums refunded.
They brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it and didnt 
uphold the complaint. She thought £75 compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs S say British Gas failed to spot a fault with their boiler when it was serviced in 
2020, and so it should refund their premiums. I appreciate their engineer said British Gas 
should have spotted the fault, but Ive not been provided with evidence to support this  so 
Im not persuaded by this. Instead, what Ive had to balance this with is the possibility the 
fault occurred after the annual service and so, wasnt present when it was serviced. I 
understand another British Gas engineer attended later that same year, but the issue they 
were sent to deal with didnt necessitate them looking at the main gas burner and so, the 
problem wouldnt have been apparent to them. For these reasons, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to conclude British Gas failed to identify a fault in 2020, and so, I wont be asking 
British Gas to refund their premiums.
Turning to the difficulties Mr and Mrs S experienced. Ive no doubt it would have been 
disappointing and frustrating to be told an engineer wasnt available until late February  
especially as Mr and Mrs S are elderly. And it was a worry for them being without heating 
and hot water. But I have to keep in mind that this was against the backdrop of the pandemic 
when services were stretched. I also balance this with the fact British Gas agreed to Mr and 
Mrs S arranging their own engineer if it allowed them to sort the problem sooner  which it 
did. And this is what Id expect it to do given Mr and Mrs S circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S have told us that their engineer attended the same day their boiler stopped 
working, but that sourcing a part meant it took another six days before they had heating 
again. Unfortunately, having to source new parts will inevitably delay things, but I dont think 
its reasonable to attribute this delay to something British Gas did wrong. I say this because 
Ive not been provided with evidence to show that had British Gas sent an engineer sooner, 
Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have experienced a number of days without heating. Its possible that 
British Gas would have had to source the part as well, which would mean Mr and Mrs S 
would have found themselves in the same situation. So, on balance, Im satisfied £75 fairy 
reflects the difficulties Mr and Mrs S experienced. 
I know my decision will disappoint them, but I hope Mr and Mrs S understand, based on the 
reasons above, why I havent upheld it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman