DRN-1521342
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
during a telephone call in 2000. Miss M says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Barclays shouldve made Miss M aware the PPI was optional. Barclays has explained that 
the policy was added to Miss Ms card during a telephone call about six weeks after she 
applied for her credit card. There is limited information available from the time this policy was 
sold, but from what I have seen, and knowing that this policy was added to the card after it 
was applied for, I dont have enough to say Barclays didnt make it clear the policy was 
optional, or that Miss M didnt choose to have it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss M. If this is the case it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.
Miss M says she got six months full and six months half sick pay benefits from her 
employer. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside these benefits as well as covering her if she 
became unemployed. Miss M says she didnt have any other means  such as savings  to 
make her repayments, so she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Miss M has missed out from anything Barclays might have done wrong, 
which means Barclays doesnt have to pay all the cost of the PPI to Miss M. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell    
Miss M, that was unfair. To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman