DRN-3083505
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc provided her with a conditional sale 
agreement for a static caravan home in July 2016 that was unaffordable. 
What happened
In July 2016 Mrs M decided to upgrade her current static caravan and so planned to settle 
her existing credit agreement and take out a new loan for another caravan. However, her 
application for a loan to fund the new caravan with Santander was initially declined. Mrs M 
says that her husband then withdrew a lump sum from his pension plan and with that money 
they paid off some credit and store cards and used the remainder to put towards the deposit 
for the new caravan. A second loan application was approved by Santander.
Santander agreed to provide Mrs M with a 10-year conditional sale agreement for a capital 
amount of £63,995 (the cash price of the goods was £79,995 and Mrs M paid a £16,000 
deposit) with interest charges of around £35,275 making a total of around £99,270 to be paid 
at around £827pm. 
Mrs M says that Santander should have done more to ensure this loan was affordable as 
she struggled to make the payments. In November 2019 Mrs M handed the keys of the 
caravan back to the credit broker and didnt make any further payments under the 
agreement. 
In January 2020 a default notice was issued by Santander for breach of the agreement as 
there was £1,689 outstanding on the account. Mrs M contacted Santander and asked to 
voluntary terminate the agreement and explained the keys were no longer in her possession. 
In February 2020 the agreement was ended. Santander informed Mrs M that she was still 
liable under the agreement to pay around £19,000.
Due the level of debt Mrs M had incurred with a number of creditors she entered into an IVA 
in March 2020.
In May 2020 Mrs M complained to Santander that the conditional sale agreement had been 
unaffordable. Santander didnt uphold her complaint, it said that its decision to lend had been 
based on credit checks and personal information that had been provided. Santander said it 
had also considered four consecutive bank statements provided by Mrs M to check that the 
repayments would be affordable for her.
Mrs M disagreed with Santanders decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She said that although she thought 
Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks into Mrs Ms income and 
outgoings, she didnt think it had made a fair lending decision. 
Our investigator said this was because when all of Mrs Ms income and outgoings, and those 
of her husband, were assessed (including the cost of this agreement) they were left with only 
a small amount of disposable income.  And out of this amount other general expenditure 
would have to be met including items such as the site fees and insurance for the caravan. 
Our investigator said that she thought Mrs Ms outgoings exceeded her income meaning this 
loan wasnt sustainably affordable for her.
Our investigator said that it would be fair for Santander to refund the deposit that had been 
paid with interest and remove any adverse information about this agreement from her credit 
file. She also said that it was fair for Mrs M to pay for her usage of the caravan and said she 
thought it would be fair for Mrs M to pay £600pm for each of the months she had use of it. 
This meant Mrs M owed Santander a total of £18,000.
Our investigator said that Santander should calculate how much Mrs M had now paid 
towards the account and if she had paid anything over £18,000 then that should be 
reimbursed with interest. If there was still an outstanding balance to pay to reach the figure 
of £18,000, then an appropriate payment plan should be agreed.
Mrs M agreed with our investigators view, but Santander disagreed. It said it disagreed that 
the loan had been unaffordable as Mrs M had kept up to date with the payments for 27 
months and, prior to that, had been able to keep up to date with the payments on her 
previous credit agreement. 
Santander said that it didnt agree that a small disposable income after all other liabilities had 
been met was necessarily unreasonable. Mrs M had been aware of the monthly costs of the 
agreement and should have also been aware of any other costs involved in upgrading the 
caravan.
Santander also said it didnt accept that Mrs M should receive her deposit back or that she 
should only pay £600pm to cover her usage as this was a monthly deduction of around 
£227pm from the payment amount set under the agreement. It said Mrs M had been able to 
use the caravan for nearly three years before the agreement had been terminated.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I need to take into 
account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There are two 
overarching questions I need to think about in order to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Mrs M wouldve been able to sustainable repay the agreement
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen that Santander obtained bank statements together with payslips and also 
undertook a credit check. Mrs Ms income was verified at around £1,820pm. Santander 
also ascertained Mrs M had been in her job for 18 years, lived at the same address for 
24 years and held her bank account for 12 years.The data from Mrs Ms credit file showed that at the time she applied for this credit 
agreement she had a total outstanding credit balance of £59,000. This amount included 
the agreement she already held with Santander for the original caravan which was to 
be settled at the time she took out this second agreement. Her monthly credit 
agreements payments were recorded as £1,094. Her accounts were well manged 
although her credit cards were near to their limits. There were no county court 
judgements, missed payments, defaults or account in arrears. 
Looking at the bank statements, these showed that both the salaries of Mrs M and her 
husband was paid into the joint account each month. They held a tenancy agreement 
and received rental payments of around £550pm from their adult children. This gave a 
joint income of around £3,690pm.  
This was a credit agreement for around £99,000 repaid over a 10-year period. And 
while I appreciate Mrs M was asked to consider the affordability of the loan as part of 
the process of taking out of the credit agreement, I dont think her accepting it meant 
that Santander didnt have to ensure it was sustainably affordable for her. And looking 
at the length of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payments, I think its 
clear this was a substantial commitment for her to meet. 
However, looking at the amount of information that was gathered by Santander in the form 
of four consecutive bank statements, payslips and a credit check, I think its reasonable to 
say that Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on whether Mrs 
M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainably affordable way. By relying on four 
months worth of statements I think its fair to say that the full financial picture of Mrs Ms 
household would have been available to Santander in terms not only of the money coming 
in but also of the range of financial commitments that were being met. 
So, having reached that conclusion, I then need to consider whether, having undertaken 
these reasonable and proportionate checks, did Santander make a fair lending decision? 
When looking at affordability and a fair lending decision, I think that here its fair to take into 
account Mrs Ms husbands income as expenses were shared between them and even 
though her husbands name wasnt on the credit agreement. The caravan was also acquired 
for them both to enjoy. I have also taken into account that Mrs Ms husband used the lump 
sum from his pension plan to clear off the outstanding amounts on their credit cards as well 
as using the remainder as part of the deposit for the upgraded caravan.
Im aware that when Mrs M first applied for the loan to acquire an upgraded static caravan 
this was declined. Mrs M says that she and her husband were advised they should clear 
some of their outstanding credit balances and reapply. Mrs Ms husband then cashed in a 
lump sum from a pension plan and used that money to pay off some of his and Mrs Ms store 
and credit card balances. They also used some of this money (£6,000) towards the deposit 
for the upgraded caravan with the remainder of the deposit coming from their original static 
caravan which they traded in.
Looking at the bank statements I can see that Mrs Ms monthly household expenses at the 
time of the agreement were around the following amounts:
Rent £540
Council tax £135
Utilities £80
Water rates £18
Food £357
Telecommunications including mobiles £90Insurance £50
DVLA £16
HMRC £42
Total = £1,328
In addition, Mrs M was paying £612pm for the original caravan, there were £401pm site fees 
and around £150pm for the gas/electric at the site totalling £1,163pm. This made a total 
committed spending of £2,491pm for Mrs M and her husband. 
From the remaining joint disposable income of £1,199pm, Mrs M and her husband were 
paying for a bank loan in the amount of £482pm and in addition making payments to around 
nine credit card accounts at about £450pm and payments to store cards of around £300pm. 
This would leave a debit balance of around £30pm. Due to the number of credit and store 
card debts, I think its difficult assessing exactly what Mrs M and her husband were left with 
each month as payments varied depending on the balance, but I dont think Mrs M or her 
husband were clearing those credit accounts down particularly quickly. I think looking at the 
expenditure of Mrs M and her husband that they werent in a position to take out more credit.
Ive seen that Mrs Ms husband used some of the money he took from his pension plan to 
pay off some of the credit cards and store cards which left them with a disposable income of 
around £250pm. However, the new agreement was around £215pm more expensive than 
the original credit agreement and there was also an increase on the site fees for the 
caravan. Taking these additional costs into account, I dont think this credit agreement was 
sustainably affordable for Mrs M as this would have pushed her and her husband into 
spending more than they had coming in and this would have been apparent to Santander 
from the bank statements that had been provided. So, I dont think this was a fair lending 
decision by Santander.
Ive seen that Santander disagrees with the view this agreement was unaffordable as Mrs M 
maintained the payments under this agreement for 30 months and on the earlier agreement 
for around two years. It says that Mrs M struggled with the payments because of a change of 
circumstances and also points out that she was able to put down a cash deposit of £6,000.
However, I dont think just because a consumer makes payments under an agreement that 
this necessarily means its affordable. Here, Ive seen that due to the amount of debt Mrs M 
had built up since acquiring the new static caravan, that she decided to enter into an IVA to 
manage what she owed in March 2020. I think its reasonable to assume it had taken her 
some time to build up her debt level to the point where an IVA and handing the keys back for 
the caravan were options she had decided to take. I also think that this level of debt 
demonstrates that she had been struggling to make the payments on this credit agreement 
by borrowing and making difficult financial choices for some time. 
I also dont think here that the cash deposit was an indicator Mrs Mand her husband were 
managing their money well. This wasnt savings they had built up from their income, but 
cash taken from a pension plan. I dont think it would be reasonable to think that because 
this money was available that Mrs M was able to afford this loan. 
So, for the reasons given I dont think Santander made a fair lending decision in respect of 
this credit agreement and Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
The final question I need to consider is whether Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
some other way. Although I dont think it made a fair lending decision, I havent seen any 
evidence that Santander acted unfairly in any other way. It accepted the early termination of 
the agreement as by then Mrs M had returned the keys of the caravan to the broker, so I dont think there was another option open to it. 
Putting things right
As I think this agreement should not have gone live as it was not sustainably affordable for 
Mrs M then I am asking Santander, as far as possible, to put her back in the position she 
would have been in had she not taken out the agreement. 
While I appreciate that £6,000 of the £16,000 was provided by Mrs s husband who wasnt a 
party to the agreement, I think it would be unfair not to refund the full amount of the deposit 
back to Mrs M. Mrs M and her husbands finances are combined and she would suffer 
financially if this money wasnt returned as the lump sum taken from her husbands pension 
is family money rather than just being Mrs Ms husbands for his sole use and benefit. I also 
dont think it would be reasonable for Santander to benefit from keeping any part of the 
deposit when it shouldnt have agreed to provide the credit agreement to Mrs M. So, I think 
its fair for Santander to reimburse Mrs M the full deposit of £16,000 together with interest.
However, Mrs M did have use of the static caravan for several months and I think its fair that 
she pays for that usage. There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should 
be. However, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of 
interest that was charged under the agreement, the usage Mrs M (and her husband) likely 
had of the caravan and what the costs might have been for staying in alternative holiday 
accommodation had Mrs M not entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a fair amount 
she should pay is £600 for every month she had use of the caravan. It seems Mrs M had use 
of the caravan for around 30 months, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Santander to retain £18,000. As Mrs M has paid more than that amount then she has no 
further liability to Santander and it should reimburse any payment over that amount to her 
with interest.
I also think that as the agreement shouldnt have gone live Mrs M shouldnt suffer any 
detriment from her inability to keep to the payments and Santander should therefore remove 
any adverse information from her credit file about this account.
Im asking Santander to do the following:
Reimburse Mrs M her £16,000 deposit together with annual interest at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Santander to calculate how much Mrs M has paid in total and deduct £18,000 for 
usage and refund the difference together with annual interest at the rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit account about this 
account.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and Im asking Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc to do the following:
Reimburse Mrs M her £16,000 deposit together with annual interest at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Santander to calculate how much Mrs M has paid in total and deduct £18,000 for 
usage and refund the difference together with annual interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit account about this 
account.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman