DRN-3358893
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave him wrong information 
when he opened a regular savings account. As a result, he suffered a loss of interest which 
he would like to be given.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr B has told us how other businesses have dealt with him in comparison to Halifax. 
But  I need to make it clear that in this view I can only consider Halifaxs actions
Ive seen a screenshot of the account in question. That makes it clear that for regular 
savings accounts Halifax also opens every day saver accounts to transfer funds into 
at the end of the regular saving term. Mr B might not agree that this is necessary, but 
that information was available to him online and in Halifaxs terms and conditions. If 
he wasnt happy with this, he didnt have to open the account.
I dont believe ,as Mr B does , that Halifax failed its duty of care to him as I believe 
the account information was clear and available.
I have no evidence to show that Halifax told or led Mr B to believe that he should set 
up his standing order for the  everyday rather than regular savings account. Its 
unfortunate that he set the order  up for the wrong account, but I believe that was his 
mistake not Halifaxs
Mr B feels that Halifax should run exception reports to pick up such errors but its 
not for us to tell banks what processes to use. 
Ive listened to phone calls between Halifax and Mr B. It took some time to work out 
what the problem was, and Mr B being cut off after his first phone cal. But I felt 
Halifax were courteous and tried to help. Unfortunately, when  issues arise it can take 
time to resolve them.
Halifax hasnt agreed to credit Mr B the interest he would have received  had he set 
up his standing order correctly. Whilst I think  Mr B made a simple mistake as I 
believe the mistake was his not Halifaxs I cant  reasonably ask Halifax to credit Mr B 
with the interest he didnt receive. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman