DRN-2822790
The complaint
Mr R complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Intelligent Finance Power of Attorney 
procedure and policy.
What happened
Mr R holds a Power of Attorney (PoA) for his wife. He says Intelligent Finance (IF) has not 
allowed him to manage his wifes affairs appropriately and says what IF offers about this 
issue is not in accordance with its published operating procedures and policies. Mr R says 
such matters form part of the contract between him and IF and questions why IF requires 
written instructions when other banks do not. He would like the same access and ability to 
manage his wifes account as she was able to in the past and for IF to act in the way it said it 
would in its promotional material.
IF says it will only accept certain instructions in writing but will accept some via telephone. It 
says it doesnt offer new accounts and so cant open a new account as Mr R would like. IF 
doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mr R brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it up to IF to decide what its policies and procedures on this issue were and up to it 
to decide if it offered new accounts. The investigator thought IFs promotional material was in 
line with what took place and the access it offered.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and in summary says IFs restrictions are not in line with its 
published material and says he has been told IFs systems are not set up to provide the 
facilities he says are offered. Mr R also questions why other banks dont apply similar 
restrictions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I will explain. I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate 
how strongly he feels about this complaint.
I hope its helpful to Mr R for me to explain what our role is here. We are not IFs regulator 
and so its not our role to order IF to change its process and policy on how it deals with POA 
applications and how it allows their use in practice. It follows that I cant fairly order IF to 
open a new account for Mr Rs wife as IF has made a business decision not to open new 
accounts. I make that clear to Mr R, as I can see that he would like the same access and 
ability to mange his wifes account as she was able to in the past. I hope that Mr R 
appreciates that, even if I thought IF had acted unfairly is some way, I couldnt order what he 
would like to happen for the reasons I have explained. I also cant fairly order IF to do 
something it says it cant do.
I also cant fairly comment on other banks processes about this issue.
I have looked at the information IF provides about the use of a PoA . Im satisfied that is 
broadly in line with what took place in practice and that IF makes clear that certain requests 
need to be made in writing. I also think that its up to IF to decide what its rules and 
requirements are about such matters when it exercises its commercial judgement and that 
its up to it to decide if it offers new accounts. I can see that decision about new accounts is 
not limited to accounts where there is a PoA but to all customers.
Overall, Im satisfied IF has dealt fairly with this complaint and that what Mr R would like to 
see happen to resolve it, are not matters I can fairly order or interfere in. I find this brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman