DRN-3690727
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
They say that Bank of Scotland didnt do enough to stop them from becoming the victim of a 
scam and would like Bank of Scotland to refund them the money they lost.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P came across an article online purporting to be from the BBC where its 
journalists were investing in a company G and generating profits. Mr and Mrs P thought that 
the article was genuine and from a reputable source.
They researched G online and thought that the website looked professional  and were 
further persuaded by the large number of positive reviews on Trustpilot (which are now 
known to be fake).
Reassured, the entered their details into the website, and were contacted by phone by G. 
They explained that they werent experienced investors but were told that this wasnt an 
issue as G would help them and persuaded them to install Anydesk on their computer. They 
were then persuaded to purchase cryptocurrency from W a legitimate crypto seller. 
Mr and Mrs P made 16 transactions, all by debit card  totalling £61,974.18. I note that out 
Investigator has calculated the loss as £60,722.98 over 15 payments  however there was 
an earlier payment of £1251.30. 
Later, Mr and Mrs P realised they have become the victims of a scam, and contacted Bank 
of Scotland to complain.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold their complaint, so they brought it to this Service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs P then asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint, so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs P, so Ill 
explain why. 
Were Mr and Mrs P the victim of a scam?
It isnt in doubt here that Mr and Mrs P were the victims of a scam  they were persuaded to 
invest in crypto by G and were unable to access their supposed profits. G now has a warning 
placed on it by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on its website.
Did Mr and Mrs P authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr and Mrs P arent liable for 
payments they didnt authorise, unless they failed with gross negligence or intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep their personalised security details safe.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P authorised the payments in question here  they spoke with 
Bank of Scotland on several occasions and confirmed that it was them making the 
payments. I understand that Mr and Mrs P had been tricked by the scammer into instructing 
Bank of Scotland to make the payments but while they never intended the payments to go to 
the scammers, this doesnt change the fact that they authorised them and are therefore 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Bank of Scotland to do 
anything further until it had been notified there was a scam.
The payments were all made using either Mr or Mrs Ps debit card - so the only recourse for 
potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card would be via the 
chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card 
issuers (here, Bank of Scotland) and the merchant (here, W).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is 
because W is a legitimate company and provided the services that Mr and Mrs P had 
requested of it  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of 
Mr and Mrs Ps choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is 
therefore a separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would likely never have been 
possible  and I dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been 
made.
Should Bank of Scotland have prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Bank of Scotland reasonably ought to have 
prevented some or all of the payments Mr and Mrs P made in the first place  therefore 
preventing the loss before it happened.
Mr and Mrs P authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, 
they are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Bank of Scotland should have taken 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, 
there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Bank of Scotland 
should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I wouldnt have expected Bank of Scotland to intervene with the payment Mr and Mrs P 
made of £1251.20  it was of was of relatively low value  and as Ive said above, there is a 
balance to be struck between preventing fraud and the smooth running of a customers 
account.
However, Bank of Scotland did later intervene with the payments Mr and Mrs P were making 
 on several occasions. It has provided this Service with call recordings of these 
interventions. Mrs P took the lead in these conversations, although Mr P was also present at 
the time.
Having listened to these calls, I think that Bank of Scotland questioned Mr and Mrs P 
appropriately about the transactions they were trying to make, as far as it was able to do, 
given what Mr and Mrs P told it. However, Mr and Mrs P werent honest with the answers 
they provided to Bank of Scotland.
They were asked on several occasions if anyone had contacted them  or persuaded them 
to make the payment  Mr and Mrs P confirmed that it was they who wanted to make the 
payments  they werent being influenced by any third party. They also said that it was their 
money  and they could do what they wanted with it. Mr and Mrs P also confirmed that they 
had done their own research and were happy with what they were doing.
Several times during the calls, Mrs P expressed her frustration at not being able to move her 
money as she wanted  but Bank of Scotland explained to her that it was duty bound to 
protect customers from fraud  and gave examples of the types of things a scammer may 
say to a consumer to persuade them into parting with their money. Some of the scenarios 
provided were very similar to what Mr and Mrs P had been told to do by the scammer  but 
they chose to disguise this from Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland also informed them of the high level of scams it had seen involving crypto 
 and that they could lose money if they were scammed which it would be unlikely they 
would be able to get back. Mrs P confirmed she understood.
So, I dont think that Bank of Scotland could have done any more than it did, and it didnt 
miss an opportunity to stop Mr and Mrs P making the payments.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P told Bank of Scotland that they were investing with G in one 
of the last calls that took place  and that the FCA had placed a warning on its website about 
G by the time this conversation happened. But this was only two weeks prior  and it is 
expected that banks should have a reasonable timeframe to update their systems. 
Ive also considered the age of Mr and Mrs P  but being of a certain age doesnt 
automatically mean that an individual is vulnerable, or incapable of managing their own financial affairs.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs P now find themselves in  
they have been the victims of a cruel scam and have lost a significant amount of money. I 
understand that they had been manipulated, coached, and coerced by the scammer.
However, the loss suffered was ultimately caused by the scammers themselves  not Bank 
of Scotland. And I cant ask Bank of Scotland to refund this loss when I think it questioned 
Mr and Mrs P appropriately about the payment and provided meaningful warnings  as far 
as it reasonably could  and they chose to disguise the truth and ignore what it had said.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman