DRN-2851925
The complaint
Mr G complains Aviva Insurance Limited gave him incorrect information when he applied for 
a car insurance policy.  
What happened
In September 2020 Mr G approached Aviva for a car insurance policy. He asked if his 14 
years no claims discount (NCD), which was dated from September 2017, would apply. He 
was told it would and Mr G went ahead with a policy. It later came to light Aviva couldnt 
accept Mr Gs NCD as it had been issued more than two years prior. This meant Mr Gs 
policy was amended to a have zero NCD.
Mr G complained as he felt hed been misled on his call with Aviva. In response Aviva 
accepted it gave Mr G incorrect information. It apologised, waived the additional premium it 
was due (about £465) and offered him £100 compensation. Mr G didnt accept this. In his 
view Aviva has cost him 14 years of NCD and should put things right by either reinstating it, 
or paying him a sum equal to the impact its loss will have on his future premiums. He asked 
our service for an independent review.
 
The investigator concluded Aviva had made a mistake. But she wasnt persuaded it had 
caused Mr G to lose out as she didnt think other insurers were likely to have accepted his 
NCD. In her view the actions Aviva took to put things right were a fair and reasonable 
resolution to the complaint. Mr G disagreed. He accepted most insurers wont accept a NCD 
thats more than two years old, but said he would have found (and been willing to pay more) 
to an insurer which would have as a 14 year NCD is worth protecting in the long run. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G asked Aviva if it would accept his NCD. He was told it would, and it wouldnt. So Aviva 
made a mistake. This much isnt in dispute. What is in dispute is whats needed to put things 
right. Mr G ended up with zero years NCD. He is understandably frustrated about this. But, 
like the investigator, Im not persuaded things would have worked out differently had Aviva 
given Mr G the correct information. Ill explain why.
NCDs is a system of discretionary discounts created by the insurance industry. There are no 
set rules or regulations. But generally, each year a driver doesnt make a claim, they gain a 
years NCD, to reflect a drivers decreasing risk. But that diminishes when someone stops 
driving - as Mr G did, for about three years. Thats why insurers wont normally accept a 
NCD thats more than two years old. Many wont accept a NCD which is more than one year 
old.  
Here, Mr Gs NCD was three years old. He argues that if Aviva had said it wouldnt have 
accepted his NCD, he would have found an insurer which would have. He further argues he 
would have been willing to pay a higher premium to ensure his NCD remained intact. I 
accept Mr G may have sought out other quotes had Aviva told him his NCD wouldnt be 
accepted. But Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, he would have found an 
insurer willing to accept his three-year-old NCD. I say this because its standard practice in 
the insurance industry for a NCD to expire after a maximum of two years and Mr G hasnt 
provided any compelling evidence that he would and could have taken out an alternative 
policy using his three-year-old NCD, had he been given the correct information.
Aviva apologised to Mr G, waived the additional premium it was due and offered him £100 
compensation. In my view this was a fair resolution to the complaint. 
  
Putting things right
My understanding is Aviva hasnt paid Mr G the £100 compensation it offered him. To 
resolve this complaint, it should pay him this sum.   
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr G £100 (alongside an apology 
and an agreement to waive the additional premium) to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr G £100 (unless it has already 
done so and I havent been told).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman