DRN-3874412
The complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) didnt default his account when he entered into 
a debt management plan (dmp) in June 2017. He would like MBNA to change the default 
date on his credit file  from February 2018 to June 2017
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Rs concern that the earlier the default is registered the earlier it will 
come off his credit file. Mr R has told us that all his other creditors agreed to a June 
2017 default date but that doesnt necessarily mean MBNA has to do the same. And  
I need to make it clear that, in this view, I can only consider MBNAs action not those 
of other organisations.
MBNA  sent Mr R a default notice in December 2018 advising it would default his 
account that month. It didnt do so as Mr R continued to make some  token payments 
on his account which delayed the default until February 2018. I can understand why 
MBNA delayed the default but I agree with our investigators view that, as  it was 
clear Mr Rs financial situation hadnt significantly changed in December 2017, there 
were grounds to default his account then as Mr R was already six months in arrears. 
I am pleased that, as a gesture of goodwill, MBNA has agreed to our investigators 
recommendation to change the default date on Mr Rs credit file to December 2017.
I appreciate Mr R would still like the default date to be June 2017 but I dont think its 
reasonable for me to ask MBNA to do this. There isnt an absolute rule as to when 
defaults should apply but usually they are applied when accounts are in arrears by 
three to six months. I dont think MBNA was unreasonable in not registering a default 
in June 2017 but in waiting until his account was in arrears before doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement MBNA Limited should alter the default date on Mr Rs credit file to 
December 2017 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman