DRN-2129619
The complaint
Mr H complains about the fee charged by Wilson Tarquin Limited for pursuing his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claims. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr H instructed Wilson Tarquin to represent him in PPI claims against various 
lenders. 
Wilson Tarquin invoiced Mr H for its commission for successful claims at 48% (including 
VAT). 
In mid-2019, Mr H wrote to Wilson Tarquin because he believed hed been overcharged. He 
referred to the fee cap introduced in July 2018, which meant claims management companies 
(CMC) couldnt charge more than 20% (plus VAT) for PPI claims. Mr H thought this should 
apply to his claims as he didnt receive the compensation until August 2018.
Wilson Tarquin said the fee cap didnt apply to Mr Hs claims because it only related to new 
customers whod signed up to use the services of CMCs on or after 10 July 2018. Mr H had 
signed Wilson Tarquins letter of engagement in May 2018.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 July 2020, where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant legislation says that claims management companies arent allowed to charge 
fees of more than 20% (plus VAT) of the amount recovered for the claimant for a PPI claim. 
This legislation came into force on 10 July 2018.
On 11 May 2018 the Claims Management Regulator issued the following guidance:
From the date of this guidance you should inform all new or potential clients of the 
upcoming change to the fees you can charge. For example, you are likely to be in breach of 
the Conduct Rules if you fail to advise your clients that the interim fee cap will be 
implemented, particularly if a client asks about your fees.
The engagement letter Mr H signed says the fee for Wilson Tarquins claim service is 48% 
(including VAT) of the value of compensation awarded. But Mr H signed this on 16 May 
2018, which was after the Claims Management Regulator issued its guidance on the 
upcoming fee changes. So, I think Wilson Tarquin should have let Mr H know that the fee 
cap was coming into force, before he agreed to use its services.
The letter of engagement refers Mr H to Wilson Tarquins terms and conditions, so Ive 
looked to see if the information is clearly set out in the document Wilson Tarquin provided us 
in relation to this complaint. This isnt dated. But it says: Wilson Tarquin Ltd is regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of regulated claims management activity. The 
Financial Conduct Authority took over the regulations of CMC on 1 April 2019. So, I dont 
think the terms and conditions Wilson Target has provided are the same ones that Mr H 
would have received when he agreed to use its services in May 2018.
 
But Wilson Tarquin hasnt responded to our investigators view and it also hasnt provided us 
with any information to show that it gave Mr H clear information about the upcoming fee cap. 
And I dont think Mr H would likely have agreed for Wilson Tarquin to represent him for a fee 
of 48% (including VAT) if Wilson Tarquin had made it clear a fee cap was about to come into 
force which would only allow it to charge half this amount of commission. 
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I think it would be fair for Wilson Tarquin to reduce its 
fee to 24% (20% plus the VAT rate at that time) and reimburse Mr H for any extra hes paid. 
It should also add on 8% per year simple interest from the date Mr H made the payments 
until the date it makes the settlement. 
I think Wilson Tarquin has caused Mr H unnecessary frustration and inconvenience by 
charging him double what he felt he should have to pay. So, I also intend to award Mr H 
£150 for trouble and upset.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further information or comments 
before I made my final decision.
Responses
Mr H agreed with the conclusions Id reached in my provisional decision.
Wilson Tarquin said it had made all existing and new clients aware of the fee cap via postal 
correspondence. It sent me a template of the letter it says was sent to Mr H. This gives 
customers the opportunity to cancel their claims at the higher fee and postpone their 
progress until after the fee cap came into effect. But Wilson Tarquin hasnt been able to 
evidence that this letter was sent to Mr H. It said the letter had been sent via a mail merge 
and it wasnt recorded in the audit notes or sent tracked.
It said CMCs were made aware of the fee changes on 1 April 2018. Mr H joined up to Wilson 
Tarquins service before then, on 19 February. And he signed up to the service on 16 May, 
prior to the interim fee cap coming into effect on 10 July 2018. 
Wilson Tarquin also sent me call recordings of conversations it had with Mr H on 19 
February, 24 April and 15 May 2018. It said Mr H was informed of the 48% fee in the phone 
calls of 19 February and 24 April 2018. Mr H could have cancelled upon the call of 24 April 
after a second confirmation of the fee. The fee cap was advertised widely including media 
coverage as well as Wilson Tarquins own information being sent to clients. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Wilson Tarquin has commented that Mr H was made aware of its fee of 48% (including VAT) 
in the phone conversations that took place in February and April 2018. But this isnt in 
dispute. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint because 
Wilson Tarquin hadnt provided anything to show it had met its obligation to let Mr H know 
about the upcoming fee cap. 
I appreciate Wilson Tarquin believes it sent Mr H a letter letting him know that the fee cap 
was being introduced in July 2018, which also gave him the opportunity to cancel the use of 
its services. But Mr H says he didnt receive this. And Wilson Tarquin isnt able to provide 
evidence it was sent to him.
Mr Hs reason for complaining to Wilson Tarquin (in August 2019) was that he hadnt been 
aware of the fee cap when hed used its services and he felt hed been overcharged. He 
says he wouldnt have signed the agreement for 48% (including VAT) if hed known the fee 
cap was about to be introduced.
In the call of 15 May 2018, Mr H asked Wilson Tarquin to send him forms to complete. The 
advisor said hed send new forms out and took the time to check the details of Mr Hs PPI 
claims with him. But the fee cap wasnt mentioned in the call, despite this taking place after 
the Claims Management Regulator issued its guidance.
Ive considered Wilson Tarquins comments and the additional information its provided 
carefully. But this hasnt persuaded me to change my opinion about what I think is likely to 
have happened. I dont think Mr H would likely have gone ahead with the PPI claims in May 
2018 if hed been aware that the fee cap was about to come into effect in July. And Wilson 
Tarquin hasnt provided strong enough evidence to show me that it made Mr H aware of the 
fee cap.  
So, I think it would be fair for Wilson Tarquin to put things right as I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Wilson Tarquin should:
Reduce its fee to 24% (including VAT) and reimburse Mr H for anything extra hes 
paid.
Add 8% per year simple interest to the above from the date Mr H made the payments 
until the date the settlement is paid.*
Pay Mr H £150 for trouble and upset.
*If Wilson Tarquin considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Wilson Tarquin Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman