DRN-3071852
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) refused to pay his alloy 
wheel repair insurance claim.
What happened
Mr H attempted to claim under his policy through an app for damage to two of his alloy 
wheels. The app allowed Mr H to upload photos of the damage he was claiming for.
Great Lakes considered Mr Hs claim and declined it under the terms and conditions of his 
policy. It said the photos provided by Mr H showed that the wheels were corroded which 
wasnt covered under the policy. Great Lakes also stated that the policy had a 30-day 
reporting period which was in place for several reasons, including to prevent corrosion 
occurring over time before a claim is made.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining Mr Hs claim. Mr H disagreed so this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have first looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs insurance policy that Great Lakes 
has relied on when declining his claim. Great Lakes has explained that it declined Mr Hs 
claim as the damage to his alloy wheels showed corrosion. The relevant section of the terms 
and conditions state:
Exclusions
This insurance will not cover the following   General wear and tear, corrosion, pitting, 
discolouration
I think the term in the policy is clear that it does not cover corrosion. 
The policy terms and conditions also state:
Claims must be reported to the Administrator within 30 days of the Damage occurring
Great Lakes has explained the 30-day reporting period is in place to prevent things like 
corrosion occurring to damaged arrears which the policy doesnt cover.
Great Lakes assessed Mr Hs claim using the photographs he provided. It isnt unusual for 
claims to be assessed in this way, and as the photographs show the damage clearly, I dont 
think it was unreasonable to assess the damage using them.
Great lakes explained that the photos show corrosion has taken place in the damaged areas 
of the wheels Mr H has attempted to make a claim for, and that this also shows that the 
claim was not made in the time allowed under the policy. I have not seen any evidence to 
suggest corrosion has not taken place.
I have thought about what Great Lakes has said in line with the evidence it has used and the 
policy terms and conditions when declining Mr Hs claim. I think Great lakes has acted within 
the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Mr Hs claim as corrosion is not 
covered. Had Mr H made his claim sooner, and before the corrosion occurred it is likely the 
repairs would have been covered under his policy. On balance I dont think Mr H attempted 
to make his claim within 30 days of the damage occurring as required under his policy.
I am satisfied that Great Lakes acted reasonably in declining Mr Hs claim, so I am not going 
to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman