DRN-1068245
The complaint
Ms B complains that, in 2007, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a package bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
Ms B opened a Silver bank account with Lloyds in 2007. This was a PBA which, in return 
for a monthly fee of £7.95, provided benefits such as European travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, Sentinel card protection and a money transfer 
card (for sending money aboard to a friend or family member). 
Ms B says she had only just moved to the UK in 2007, and that the bank took advantage of 
her unfamiliarity with the banking system and her lack of English. She says she was given 
no choice but to take an account with a fee, and wasnt told about fee-free accounts. She 
says the concept of a PBA wasnt explained to her.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms B didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I agree it is possible that Ms B was misled, and was given a poor explanation of the choices 
open to her. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was 
reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires there to be evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was several years ago. 
And the bank records from the time at least suggest that there was discussion about Ms Bs 
requirements. 
Overall, I dont have strong evidence the PBA was sold without Ms B being given enough 
information that she could understand. 
Ive also checked to see if there are other reason to say the PBA was mis-sold, but I cant 
say these apply to this case:
I think Lloyds recommended the PBA to Ms B  and so it had to make sure it was a 
reasonable fit for her circumstances. And, from what I can see from Ms Bs circumstances 
at the time, I think it was. She could have made use of the travel insurance (I can see 
evidence that she travelled to Europe soon after she started the account). She has said she 
didnt have a mobile phone at the time but has had one since, and I think there was quite a 
likelihood in 2007 she might soon have bought one. She says she didnt drive, and so the 
break down insurance was no use to her. But I think there were sufficient benefits overall 
that were potentially useful to Ms B. And it looks like this was the most suitable account for 
her likely needs. So I think a recommendation would have been appropriate. 
I realise Ms B is saying she didnt understand that she had these benefits but, as Ive 
explained, Ive not got enough evidence to fairly say the bank acted wrongly in that way. 
Overall, Ive not decided the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman