DRN-1157320
 
The complaint
Mr and Ms S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a regular premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In January 2007, Mr and Ms S purchased a PPI policy when they took out a regulated 
mortgage with Lloyds. The policy provided cover for Mr S and Ms S in the event they werent 
working because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £22.00 each 
month and in the event of a successful claim it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £320.42 
for up to 12 months. The benefit was split 50% for Mr S and 50 % for Ms S. The policy was 
cancelled in 2010.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Ms S case. Ive looked at the available information with care and have decided not 
to uphold the complaint and Ive explained my reasons below.
When Mr and Ms S purchased the PPI policy, they completed a separate PPI application 
form. And I can see that they chose the level of cover and amount of cover they wanted 
together with how the policy benefit should be split between Mr S and Ms S. They signed 
this application from in January 2007. Ive also seen copies of the signed direct debit 
mandate that they completed to set up a separate payment for the PPI separately from the 
mortgage. And the mortgage offer paperwork says that the policies are optional and explains 
that customers dont need to take out any insurance with the bank..
So taking all these things into account, Im satisfied that PPI was separate from the 
mortgage and taking it wasnt a condition of being granted the mortgage. And the paperwork 
suggests that Mr and Ms S chose to purchase the policy and agreed to pay for it  so I think 
that they knew, or ought reasonably to have known that the PPI policy was optional.
Lloyds recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Ms S. But from what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time of the sales, I think the policy was suitable for them.
I say this because the policy covered them both, and the benefit was split and took into 
account Mr S and Ms S relative incomes.
Both Mr S and Ms S were eligible for the policy  they met the policy rules about their age, 
where they were living and their employment status. And from the information theyve both 
given us, I dont think either of them wouldve been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies  they told us they were in good health and they 
were employed at the times they were covered. So, I think they wouldve been able to make 
a successful claim on the policy if either of them had needed to.
Mr and Ms S were working at the time and they say they had some occupational benefits 
from their employers if they were off work sick. But this doesnt automatically mean that the 
policy was unsuitable. This is because were either of them unable to work, the PPI was 
intended to remove the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what 
would likely be a difficult time.
Also, the mortgage was for 18 years and the PPI wouldve helped to pay the monthly 
mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any other 
cover or savings they may have had. So, I dont think Mr and Ms S existing work benefits 
wouldve made the PPI unsuitable.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Ms S.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. They 
havent told us everything that shows what was actually said to Mr and Ms S about this. So I 
cant say its likely Lloyds did give Mr and Ms S everything they needed to know before 
deciding to take PPI.
But did Mr and Ms S lose out as a result - would they have taken the PPI if Lloyds had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
Mr and Ms S wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on 
their home. And that the costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So I 
dont think Mr and Ms S lost out because I think they wouldve taken the policy if theyd been 
given enough proper information about it. And as the policy was a regular monthly premium 
policy, if Mr and Ms S decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that they no longer wanted 
the PPI, they couldve cancelled it without penalty. 
I realise that this will be a disappointment for Mr and Ms S, but I do not think that the policy 
was mis-sold to them. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman