DRN-1952334
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996 when she applied for a credit card in her former 
name.
What happened
Mrs B said the policy was not suitable for her because she was not working full time. She 
was a part time employee and working only two days a week. She concludes the policy was 
not of benefit to her, so she concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because it was difficult for Mrs B to make a claim on 
the policy for unemployment cover because she was working for less than 16 hours per 
week.
Barclays disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. Barclays added some points including:
It could not confirm the sales channel as the application form used could have been a 
postal application or completed in branch, so its decided to say the sale was advised 
and that Mrs B spoke to an adviser;
Its adviser would have followed the Code of Practice when selling the insurance;
Mrs B opted to tick Yes for the PPI;
If she was working less than 16 hours per week, but satisfied other conditions, she 
still could have claimed on the policy;
£5,000 per year does not seem to be the correct salary for someone working less 
than 16 hours per week.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided to uphold her complaint for the reason Ill set out below.
Barclays said the Mrs B was eligible to buy PPI and that it was optional. I accept that Mrs B 
was eligible to buy the PPI policy in 1996. Barclays produced Mrs Bs credit card application 
form which I looked at very carefully. I can see that she ticked a box confirming she was 
working part time and earning £5,000 per year at the time of the sale.
Barclays also produced a copy of the policy Mrs B bought. The policy says she cannot claim 
for unemployment cover unless she was in continuous work for 12 months and work is 
defined as being in paid employment for at least 16 hours per week. Barclays says she could 
still have claimed in principle, in some circumstances, for unemployment cover if she 
satisfied other conditions.
However, Mrs B told us she was only working for 2 days a week and for less than 16 hours 
in total  and I think her declared salary at the time reflects that. I think she may have been 
in some difficulty in trying to make a claim for unemployment cover because she didnt meet 
the definition of work in the policy  unless her working hours increased and she has not 
said that happened. Mrs B also told us she had no savings, so I think the unemployment 
cover would have been important to her.
 
Barclays said if Mrs B had been advised, then its adviser would have followed the Code of 
Practice for selling insurance and would have advised her about how the limitations for her 
on an unemployment claim. However, in this case, Barclays cant say how the policy was 
sold, so it cant be certain that Mrs B spoke to an adviser and therefore would have been told 
of the limitations on an unemployment claim. So I dont think it is clear this limitation was 
highlighted to Mrs B at the time of the sale and I think this is a failing in the sale. And I dont 
think she would have bought the policy if this limitation had been highlighted to her.
So, I think Mrs B has lost out because of what the business did wrong. Ive taken into 
account Barclays comments, but I still think I should uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold the policy and needs to put things right for Mrs B by putting 
her in the position she would have been in if she had not bought the PPI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I make the following award against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI.
 
A. Barclays Bank UK PLC should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when 
she closed her credit card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should 
remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of 
the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs B made a 
successful claim under the PPI policy or received a payment for high commission, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC can take off what she got for the claim and/or the commission 
payment from the amount it owes her. 
B. Barclays Bank UK PLC should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mrs B would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until 
she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C. If  when Barclays Bank UK PLC works out what Mrs B would have owed each 
month without PPI  Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs B wouldve owed Barclays Bank UK 
PLC something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
D. Barclays Bank UKPLC should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman