DRN-3939269
The Complaint
Mr A says that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a holiday product he 
and his partner (Ms P) purchased on 21 October 2017 (the Time of Sale).
That claim is Mr As because Shawbrooks loan was only in his name. But as the holiday 
product at the centre of this complaint was in Mr A and Ms Ps names, Ill refer to both at 
times in this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr A and Ms P purchased Trial Membership in a holiday club at the Time of Sale from a 
timeshare provider (the Supplier). The purchase price was £4,595 and in return for that they 
were provided with five weeks of accommodation over the course of three years. They were 
also offered a promotional holiday called a Prelude that activated their Trial Membership 
once the Prelude was taken.
Mr A and Ms P financed their purchase using a loan from Shawbrook in Mr As name (the 
Credit Agreement). 
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr A first made a complaint to the Supplier on 7 November 
2019 before complaining to Shawbrook on 20 January 2020. As the contents of those letters 
and the responses to them are likely to be familiar to both sides, I wont repeat their contents 
in detail here. But, in summary, Mr A said that his Trial Membership had been 
misrepresented by the Supplier and mis-sold given the pressure he was put under and the 
challenges he faced as a result of an injury he suffered in the past.
On 20 February 2020, Shawbrook responded to the Letter of Claim. It treated Mr As claim 
as a complaint and went on to reject it for largely the same reasons that the Supplier 
disagreed with the allegations that had been made.
Mr A and Ms P then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Their 
Complaint Form covered much of the ground they dealt with in their complaints to 
Shawbrook and the Supplier. But Mr A also said that he couldnt afford what he borrowed 
from Shawbrook for his Trial Membership.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
available to her, didnt think there was a reason to uphold it.
As Mr A and the investigator couldnt agree on an informal resolution, the complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD). And, in short, I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
I thought that allegations of misrepresentation by the Supplier clearly fell under Section 75 of 
the CCA. And as Mr A had and has a number of other concerns that amount to an allegation 
of mis-selling, those struck me as better dealt with under Section 140A of the CCA  which 
deals with unfair relationships between borrowers (like Mr A) and creditors (like Shawbrook).
However, I wasnt persuaded by the evidence available that claims under either section of 
the CCA should succeed. And I couldnt see that the loan from Shawbrook was unaffordable.
In response, Shawbrook had nothing further to add. But Mr A disagreed. And, in summary, 
he said:
He and Ms P think that there must have been a misrepresentation by the Supplier. The 
narrow boat holiday offered to them in October half-term rather than the Easter holidays 
involved additional costs that they hadnt been told about. Similarly, a two-week holiday 
in Italy didnt go ahead as it should have because they had to move to different 
accommodation during their stay and there were additional costs over and above those 
they had been told about.
He and Ms P were definitely given the impression that they couldnt get out of the 
Purchase Agreement once it had been signed and that the offer put to them by the 
Supplier would not be available unless they took it at the Time of Sale. They cant 
remember any mention of a cooling off period. And if there had been they would have 
got advice/asked someone to check the Purchase Agreement.
Following Mr As letter of 15 August 2022, he spoke to the investigator who assessed this 
complaint on 30 August, 27 September and 5 October 2022. Having listened to all three of 
those calls, Mr A repeated much of what he already had to say about the purchase. 
As the deadline for responses to my PD has now been and gone, the complaint has come 
back to me to consider for a Final Decision. 
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr A. But I hope he understands why. 
Before I get on to why thats the decision Ive made, I want to explain what my role as an 
ombudsman is. 
It isnt to address every single point thats made. Instead, its to decide what I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome is along with my reasons for it given the facts and circumstances of this 
complaint. 
So, while Mr A has referred to some holiday vouchers he says he had been offered by a 
company he bought windows from, mentioned a historic investigation into over-charging by 
Shawbrook and provided me with lots of online reviews about the Supplier that are posted 
on a well-known website, its on the facts of this case  which relates to the sale of Mr As 
Trial Membership  that the outcome must ultimately be decided.
However, having read and considered everything that has been said and/or provided during 
the life of this complaint, I want to reassure Mr A that I have kept in mind all of the points that 
have been made when coming to my decision.
Section 75: MisrepresentationMr A says that his Trial Membership was misrepresented because the holidays werent
luxurious as promised. He says, for example, that he had enjoyed a holiday in the UK using 
his membership. But he didnt enjoy the accommodation as it wasnt much more than a bed 
and a chair. 
Mr A also says that there must have been a misrepresentation by the Supplier because:
1. A narrow boat holiday involved additional costs that he and Ms P hadnt been told about.
2. A two-week holiday to Italy didnt go ahead as it should have done because he and Ms P 
had to move to different accommodation and there were additional costs over and above 
those they had been told about.
I recognise that Mr A has concerns about the way in which his Trial Membership was sold 
and worked in practice. 
But, as I suggested in my PD, a misrepresentation is defined very specifically as a statement 
of fact or law that is untrue. So, while Mr A isnt happy about additional costs associated with 
a narrow boat holiday and a holiday to Italy, for example, I cant see that the Supplier said 
something to him and Ms P at the Time of Sale that, in light of what Mr A now says about 
those holidays, was both factual and untrue. And for that reason, Im not persuaded that 
Mr As concerns about those holidays means there was a misrepresentation by the Supplier 
at that time. 
As for whether holidays as a trial member were as luxurious as Mr A says they were 
promised to be, the notion of luxury is often entirely subjective  differing from one person to 
the next. And as I said in my PD, a mere opinion which proves to be untrue isnt a 
misrepresentation unless the opinion amounts to a statement of fact and it can be shown 
that the person who gave it did not hold it or could not reasonably have held it.
So, while Mr A might have his own view on the standard of the accommodation he stayed in 
using his Trial Membership, there still isnt enough here to persuade me that the Supplier is 
likely to have made representations in relation to the standard of accommodation available 
to trial members that can be said to have amounted to more than merely an opinion.
Mr A also says that his Trial Membership was misrepresented because he and Ms P found it 
difficult to book holidays. But I find this allegation difficult to square with what the paperwork 
says about holidays being subject to availability. I cant ignore the fact that Mr A and Ms P 
were able to use their Trial Membership. And as Im not persuaded by what Ive seen that 
the Supplier said something to him and Ms P in relation to the availability of holidays that 
was both factual and untrue, I dont think his Trial Membership was misrepresented for this 
reason.
Overall, therefore, while its possible that Mr As Trial Membership was misrepresented by 
the Supplier, based on everything that both sides have said and provided, Im still not 
persuaded its probable given the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
As I said in my PD, Mr A says that he and Ms P were pressured into purchasing Trial 
Membership. But Im still not persuaded thats likely to have been the case. After all, they 
didnt cancel the purchase during the 14-day cooling off period. And they used their 
membership on more than one occasion - which I find difficult to square with the suggestion 
that they made the purchase when they simply didnt want to.Mr A says that he wasnt told about the 14-day cooling off period. But Ive seen a one-page 
document signed by Mr A and Ms P that suggests otherwise. 
As for what Mr A says about his capacity at the Time of Sale, while he says that he told the
Supplier at that time about an injury he suffered in the past, the Supplier says that it has no 
record of the issue being raised either at the Time of Sale or afterwards. 
As I have no reason to disbelieve either side, this continues to be a difficult point to decide. 
But given everything thats been said and/or provided by both sides, Im still not persuaded 
that the Supplier is likely to have acted unfairly for this particular reason. 
And as I havent seen anything else that makes me think the relationship between Mr A and 
Shawbrook was unfair, I still dont think thats the conclusion a court would reach.
The Lending Decision
As Ive said before, even if I were to find that Shawbrook failed to do everything it should 
have done when it agreed to lend to Mr A (and I make no such finding), Id still have to 
satisfy myself that the lending was unaffordable for him before also concluding that he lost 
out as a result. And based on what I know about his financial circumstances, I still havent 
seen enough to persuade me that was likely to have been the case given the size of the loan 
repayments relative to his likely net monthly income.
So, I still dont think this is a reason to uphold this complaint either.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman