DRN-3733824
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc dealt with a claim she made relating to 
the sale of a TV that she bought using her credit card.
What happened
Mrs B bought a TV from an online retailer C. It was described as coming with a three-year 
warranty. However, after the TV was delivered Mrs B discovered the warranty ran for only 
one year. She contacted C to return the TV, on the basis it wasnt correctly described. C 
confirmed the sales listing was wrong and told Mrs B it could be returned for a refund. But C 
didnt do anything to facilitate the return. So Mrs B asked Sainsburys Bank to step in as 
shed used her credit card with the bank to make the purchase.
Sainsburys Bank asked Mrs B to complete a form with a view to attempting to raise a 
chargeback of the card payment. She duly did so, providing the background and evidence 
from C that she should be entitled to a refund. Sainsburys Bank sought further documents 
from Mrs B to evidence the warranty description, which she didnt have. The bank said it 
couldnt assist further and Mrs B raised a formal complaint about its handling of her claim.
In response Sainsburys Bank said it had been unable to help because the correspondence 
from C was insufficient in the absence of documentation relating to the warranty and the 
agreement between Mrs B and C. The bank added that it had been unable to deal with the 
claim under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act (section 75). It said this was because of the involvement of a third party P in the way 
payment was processed. Sainsburys Bank said it could have explained this sooner and 
acknowledged its handling of the claim had led to delays. It paid Mrs B £100 in recognition.
Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys Bank had dealt with matters fairly, and that it hadnt 
correctly interpreted Ps role in matters. He considered the bank was liable for the 
representations made by C in respect of the warranty, and that she was entitled to reject the 
TV as a result. The investigator proposed that Sainsburys Bank collect the TV from Mrs B, 
refund  with interest  what she paid for it and pay her £50 further in compensation.
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree to this proposal, instead proposing an alternative resolution 
under which it would effectively make good the shortfall in the anticipated warranty term by 
covering the costs of any repairs needed in the three years since purchase. Mrs B didnt find 
this proposal acceptable, and the matter was passed to me for review and determination.
On an initial review of the case papers, I felt the resolution our investigator proposed was a 
fair way to resolve the dispute. I invited Sainsburys Bank to reconsider its position before 
making a final determination. Sainsburys Bank came back with a further counter-proposal. It 
said it was unable to collect the TV from Mrs B, but she would be in a better position than 
she should be if she were to receive a full refund and keep the TV. The bank asked if Mrs B 
was willing to sell the TV for a reasonable price and obtain a receipt for the sale. It would 
then refund Mrs B the difference between what shed paid and the sale price achieved.
Mrs B didnt find this alternative proposal acceptable either. She pointed out the additional 
difficulties this would cause her, and questioned why Sainsburys Bank didnt have the 
resource to collect the TV.
As the parties havent been able to reach an agreed settlement, Ive proceeded with my 
formal determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys Bank says it originally considered Mrs Bs claim under chargeback. I can see the 
bank asked her to supply documentary evidence to support her statement of facts, saying 
that the MasterCard scheme rules meant it couldnt progress the claim without this. Having 
examined the relevant chargeback rules, they dont support the position the bank took. 
Theres no requirement in the card scheme rules that prevented Sainsburys Bank from 
raising the chargeback on the evidence Mrs B supplied at the outset.
That evidence included correspondence from C that appears to support her claim. I dont 
share Sainsburys Banks view that it was insufficient to demonstrate what she was saying. It 
confirms that the listing was wrong and that the TV could be returned for a full refund. So it 
seems entirely possible that C wouldnt have defended the claim had the bank submitted it. 
And even if it had, such a defence was open to challenge.
I also note that Sainsburys Bank subsequently agreed that section 75 applied to the 
transaction and that this gave rise to a potential liability in line with Mrs Bs rights as a 
consumer. The proposals the bank has put forward in response are to a large extent in 
mitigation of liability, rather than suggesting it has no liability.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Mrs Bs right to reject goods that arent as described 
cant have a deduction made for use where she had them only because the retailer didnt 
collect them. From what I can see Mrs B made efforts to engage with C about rejection and 
collection, and she did so within the first six months of receiving the TV. That means no 
deduction can be made for use.
Taking all of this into account, I find that Sainsburys Bank hasnt treated Mrs B fairly in 
dealing with her claim. It gave incorrect reasons for declining her section 75 claim and its 
actions in failing to raise a chargeback in the circumstances have also contributed towards 
her not recovering her money. I think it only fair that Sainsburys Bank takes suitable steps to 
address this, which Ill set out below.
Putting things right
As a starting point, Mrs B was entitled to return the TV and get a full refund of the £347.85 
she paid for it. Cs evidence acknowledges this position before Mrs B first contacted 
Sainsburys Bank in July 2020.
Allowing a reasonable period for the bank to deal with the claim properly, Im satisfied it 
should have identified its liability much sooner than it did. The bank has recognised delays in 
the £100 it has already paid Mrs B, so for the purposes of calculating any interest on the 
sum Mrs B was due as a refund, I think its fair to use the 6 November 2020 date our 
investigator suggested. However, I do think the £100 was a little light in reflecting the 
frustration and difficulty to which Mrs B has been put in pursuing her claim. Like the 
investigator, I consider the bank should increase this amount by £50.That leaves the issue of what to do with the TV. Mrs B has been clear from the outset that 
she wanted to reject the TV. I cant see shes done anything thats stopped this from 
happening. I dont see that she should be put to any expense in terms of that collection, or to 
any further difficulty in efforts to sell the TV on Sainsburys Banks behalf simply because the 
bank says it cant come up with a way of collecting it.
I appreciate the banks concerns about the possibility of betterment. It can address those 
concerns by arranging for collection of the TV, either directly or perhaps by instructing a 
courier. If the bank genuinely cannot find a suitable way of recovering the TV, then it should 
treat it as abandoned and Mrs B can keep or dispose of the TV as she sees fit. In order not 
to prolong matters further, on receipt of Mrs Bs acceptance of this decision Sainsburys 
Bank should promptly inform her whether it intends to collect or abandon the TV.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, Sainsburys Bank Plc should 
within 28 days of Mrs Bs acceptance of this decision take the following steps:
1. pay Mrs B £347.85, representing the cost of the TV
2. pay interest on the amount in 1. at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from 6 
November 2020 until the date it pays this settlement. If the bank deducts tax from this 
interest it should provide Mrs B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate, if she 
requests it, so that she can reclaim any overpayment from His Majestys Revenue 
and Customs
3. pay Mrs B £50 (in addition to sums already paid) in recognition of her distress and 
inconvenience
4. contact Mrs B to tell her whether it will be collecting the TV and arrange a mutually 
convenient collection arrangement, which should be at no additional cost to Mrs B, or 
whether it is abandoning any claim it has on the TV. If the bank elects to abandon the 
TV to Mrs B, it should confirm in writing that it will make no future attempt to recover 
the TV or any residual value from her 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman