DRN-1344624
Complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Ltd (Amex) provided poor customer 
service.
Background
Mr J is an Amex cardholder and made a telephone call to their customer service team. Mr J 
was kept on hold for a long time and eventually cut off. Mr J complained to Amex and asked 
them to compensate him for the time he had wasted.  
Amex say that they have no record of the original call where Mr J was kept on hold but in 
any event they wouldnt compensate customers for loss of a callers time because of long 
hold times or being cut off and having to redial. Mr J wasnt happy with their response and 
referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator obtained all the relevant information available but didnt uphold the 
complaint. The investigator felt Amex had acted fairly and he didnt feel they needed to give 
compensation for delays in answering the telephone. Mr J asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and for much the same reasons and I 
will give the reasons for my decision. 
I have looked at whether Amex had been responsible for the time and inconvenience caused 
to  Mr J  when he attempted call them and if this justifies any financial compensation. 
I do understand Mr J would be frustrated when being kept on hold, for what he felt was an 
unreasonable length of time, when trying to contact Amex customer service team.
Amex, like most banks, operates a telephone queuing system given the volume of daily calls 
it receives. Mr J says that he was on hold for 20 mins overall and he felt this was 
unreasonable and frustrating. I can understand that having been held on the telephone and 
then cut off is frustrating but Amex, like many other businesses, will have peaks in the 
number of calls it gets at any one time which would contribute to customer waiting times. I 
dont feel that Amex can be held responsible for this, as call volumes are outside of their 
control.  
While Mr J was waiting to get through to the service team, he did have the option to call 
back, perhaps at a less busy time of day when he may have got through sooner. It is not my 
role to advise Amex on its telephony service or standards for this, so I have focused on 
whether the inconvenience caused was preventable and justifies a financial compensation to 
Mr J.Amex advised this service they had no record of the initial call from Mr J, only of the 
complaint which was verbally responded to and I am satisfied, in the circumstances, this was 
a reasonable way to deal with the complaint. I understand that Mr J says he made the initial 
phone call, I have no evidence to support this, but even so, Amex cant control the volume of 
incoming calls and any subsequent delays caused by this. All of us experience some level of 
inconvenience in our day to day lives. However, that doesnt mean every situation will 
warrant compensation. I dont think it does here.
Following this, I am satisfied that Amex do not need to pay compensation to Mr J. While I 
understand Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, I cant ask anymore of Amex here. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman