DRN-3990608
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) has 
unfairly declined her pet insurance claim. Any reference to Mrs I or C&G in this case 
includes respective representatives and agents unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mrs I has a pet dog who Ill call B. After noticing a broken tooth on the floor Mrs I 
took B to the vet who found slab fractures on both carnassial teeth which would 
need to be extracted. Mrs I made a claim for the cost of this on her C&G pet 
insurance policy.
C&G requested information from Mrs I about where and how the injury occurred. 
Mrs I said she couldnt give an exact date or time, but that B had been in kennels 
shortly before she found the tooth and she thought it had most likely happened there.
C&G initially declined the claim saying it didnt meet the definition of accidental 
injury under the policy. Mrs I disagreed and provided C&G with a letter from her vet 
which said that in their opinion, the cause was most likely accidental and the claim 
should be covered. But C&G maintained its position.
Mrs I brought a complaint to this service which was upheld by the investigator. They 
said the claim should be paid, with applicable interest and £100 compensation.
C&G didnt accept the investigators findings. It added that Mrs I said the injury that 
caused the teeth fractures most likely took place when B was in kennels and that 
under the policy, any claim arising from when the pet is being looked after by kennels 
is excluded.
Mrs I said her comment about the kennels was simply an indication of where and 
when it may have taken place but wasnt a statement of fact and the injury could 
have occurred after Bs return from the kennels. But she still couldnt say where.
The investigator considered both arguments and accepted the injury may have 
happened in kennels but said for C&G to fairly apply the exclusion, it had to prove 
this is where it occurred. They werent satisfied it did that so maintained the 
complaint should be upheld. 
In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision on this case setting out why I thought 
differently to the investigator and didnt intend to uphold the complaint. Ive included part of 
this below:
Mrs Is policy covers her for vet fees. The cover is subject to certain terms, conditions 
and exclusions, set out in the policy documents and applied to any claim made.
Mrs Is claim was for dental treatment B underwent after suffering teeth fractures. 
From what Ive seen, the policy terms say that Mrs I isnt insured for Dental or gum 
treatment that is not due to an Accidental Injury. And accidental injury is defined in 
the policy as a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a specific time 
and place which results in damage to one or more parts of Your pets body.
So, under the terms of the policy, for Mrs Is claim to be met, she needs to be able to 
reasonably demonstrate that the injury B sustained meets the policy definition of 
accidental injury as set out above.
C&G say shes failed to do this. It firstly points to Bs clinical records which it says 
suggest there were known problems in Bs teeth before the claim.
But theres no mention in Bs records of these matters being linked or being the 
cause of Bs subsequent teeth fractures. In my opinion, some of whats been noted 
arguably isnt that unusual or concerning for a dog and certainly one of Bs age. And I 
cant see that the vet cites anything in the history as a cause or contributing factor to 
the fractures.
On balance of what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded C&G has demonstrated that 
there most likely was known issues that led to Bs subsequent teeth fractures. And so 
far, Ive seen nothing else to suggest the injury B sustained wasnt sudden, 
unforeseen or unintended as the definition requires. But C&G also raise the point that 
Mrs I cant confirm the time and place the injury occurred.
Mrs I says she cant recall a specific event that caused Bs teeth fractures, but knows 
its usually the result of chewing or biting on something hard  the vets letter 
supports this. Mrs I says she collected B from kennels around a week before she 
found the broken tooth, and that in that week, B had possibly been tentative with 
some of her food. It was therefore her opinion the accident most likely occurred at 
the kennels.
I agree Bs possible tentativeness with her food suggests she couldve been having 
teeth trouble on her return from the kennels, making it more likely thats where the 
injury happened. And I cant now ignore the fact that by her own admission, thats 
what Mrs I thought was most likely before C&G raised the exclusion relating to this.
With all of that in mind, if I accept on balance of the information Ive seen so far, that 
the injury B sustained was most likely sudden, unforeseen and unintended and took 
place during the time she was in kennels, it may well satisfy the definition of 
accidental injury in this case, but is excluded under the policy anyway because the 
terms state that cover isnt provided for  Any claim where Your pet is being looked 
after by Pet Sitters, Pet Walkers, Kennels, Cattery and Groomers.
Im aware Mrs I has since said her answer that the injury most likely took place at the 
kennels was merely a possibility and not a statement of fact. And the investigator 
was of the opinion that C&G hadnt proved the injury did occur at the kennels.
But to rely on an exclusion to decline Mrs Is claim, C&G need only prove that it 
applies on balance of probabilities. With that in mind, given everything Ive seen so 
far and Mrs Is response that the injury most likely took place at the kennels, Im 
currently persuaded C&G can fairly apply the exclusion it has in this case.
It follows I dont think C&G wrongly declined the claim based on the information its 
been given so far and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I know Mrs I feels strongly that the claim should be paid, so the proposed change in 
outcome of this case will likely be very disappointing. But for the reasons set out 
above and based on the information available to me so far, I cant say C&G has 
acted unfairly and so I dont intend to uphold this complaint and direct C&G to do 
anything further in this decision.I gave both parties a chance to respond before making my final decision. C&G had no 
further comment and simply reiterated its previous reasons for declining claim. But Mrs Is 
representative disagreed with my findings on her behalf. In summary they said:
C&G has looked for reason to decline the claim from the start and only sought to rely 
on the kennels exclusion after the investigators view.
The opinion that the accident most likely occurred at kennels can carry no 
quantitative weight because Mrs I isnt trained to give such an opinion and merely 
made a guess.
Given the fragment of tooth was a piece of enamel rather than a rooted fragment, the 
greater probability is that the interval between the injury occurring, and the discovery 
of the broken tooth would be extremely short. This suggests it most likely happened 
after B returned from kennels on the day/days prior to discovering the tooth fragment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive summarised the response from Mrs Is representative above, I can assure her Ive 
considered it in full, but these points dont change the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision, and Ill explain why.
Both parties in this case can provide information they think is applicable and want to 
be considered before a final decision is made. So, while I acknowledge C&G only 
raised the kennels exclusion after our investigators findings on the complaint, this is 
something its entitled to do.
The policy requires Mrs I to specify where and when the injury shes claiming for 
occurred. This isnt unusual in policies of this nature, and Mrs I isnt required to be 
trained in a particular field of expertise to answer this question to the best of her 
knowledge. In the absence of being able to give a definitive answer, which is what 
happened in this case, this Service can consider what Mrs I thinks was most likely.
I cannot ignore the fact that prior to C&G raising any exclusion, Mrs I said on more 
than one occasion, that the injury most likely occurred at kennels. And Ive explained 
why this means the claim has been fairly declined.
Mrs I now says this is unlikely because for the reasons set out in her response 
above, (which arguably she has always been aware of) she thinks the time between 
the injury and discovering the tooth fragment wouldve been very short. She now 
says this makes it more likely the injury happened at home when B returned from 
kennels.
But Ive seen no expert evidence or further information that reasonably supports this 
new opinion from Mrs I. The letter from Mrs Is vet states that the fractures B suffered 
most often happen accidentally, but it gives no mention to time periods or the type of 
fracture having any bearing on when or where the injury most likely occurred. 
So essentially, Mrs I has given two opinions on where and when she thinks the injury 
most likely occurred. In the absence of a definitive answer on this, and in the 
particular circumstances of this case, I can only consider which one of these opinions 
is more persuasive to me based on the information Ive seen.
On balance, Im still more persuaded that the injury most likely happened at kennels. 
This is the initial answer Mrs I gave before any exclusion was raised, and there were further points as set out in my provisional decision which seemed to support this 
being the most likely answer.
Im therefore satisfied that the exclusion C&G has relied on fairly applies in this case 
and as result, the claim has been fairly declined based on the information currently 
available to C&G.
However, if Mrs I can provide C&G with suitable expert evidence to show the injury 
couldnt have happened at the kennels and most likely happened when B returned 
home, Id expect C&G to consider this in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman