DRN-3139591
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as G, complain that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined their 
claim for business interruption. Mrs E brings the complaint on Gs behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on G, as they were required to close during 
periods of lockdown.
G held a business insurance policy with Covea. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But Covea declined it. It said the policy primarily covered G for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain kinds of diseases at Gs premises. But 
that Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. G complained to us, 
but our investigator thought the policy terms had been applied fairly. G didnt agree, so Ive 
been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on G had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Covea 
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to Gs circumstances below. 
The burden of proof initially rests with G to show, on balance, theyve suffered a loss their 
policy covers.
Damage
Both the core business interruption cover in Gs policy, and a number of the extensions to 
this cover (including Denial of Access) are based on an interruption to the business which 
has been caused by damage (or explosion). Damage is defined in the policy as physical 
loss destruction or damage. 
I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19, or the Governments response to it, caused 
physical loss, destruction or damage to the types of property mentioned in either the core 
business interruption cover or the extensions to this cover requiring damage. So, Ive gone 
on to consider whether any of the other extensions might respond to Gs claim.
Notifiable Disease, Vermin Pests and Defective Sanitation, Murder or Suicide 
This extension covers G for:
(a) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease at The Premises
(b) any discovery of a harmful organism likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease at The Premises
Notifiable Disease is defined as:
The occurrence of any of the following human infectious or human contagious 
diseases sustained by any person:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, 
Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough, Yellow Fever.
Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, so this extension wouldnt 
cover interruption caused by the restrictions introduced to combat the spread of Covid-19, 
even if G could show there was an occurrence of it at their premises.  
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Covea might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Gs policy includes a list of notifiable diseases at a particular time. And theres 
nothing in the policy which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, 
including any new diseases which emerge, and / or that become notifiable at a later date. 
Overall, Im satisfied the list has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to occurrences of 
those diseases mentioned in the list. And I dont think the other extensions apply either. 
G have referred to the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority. But this only 
affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. And it didnt seek to 
resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases which 
does not include Covid-19, as is the case here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask G to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman