DRN-3137546
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint concerns Admiral Markets UK Ltd changing the terms of its WTI oil CFD 
contract. 
What happened
On 20 April 2020 significant volatility in the market saw global oil prices go negative for the 
first time. In response to these unprecedented events, on 21 April 2020 Admiral changed the 
way it priced WTI Spot Oil, moving from its usual basis of using the near-month futures 
contract to instead using the December futures contract. Its aim was to reduce the risk of 
negative spot prices potentially impacting clients.
Following the change Mr C complained to Admiral. He had several WTI spot positions open 
when the pricing change was made and was unhappy that it meant hed be denied potential 
gains from his positions. He was further concerned that he also couldnt open new positions 
(Admiral had made the product close-only, again in response to circumstances) and that 
the overnight swap price on the product was increased.  
Admiral issued a final response in which it said it was satisfied it had acted reasonably and 
in accordance with its terms given the unprecedented circumstances. It noted that the switch 
from the near-month pricing contract to the December contract had no impact on the spot 
price at the time  it didnt result in a gap in the price.
Mr C didnt accept Admirals explanation, and the complaint was referred to this service. Our 
investigator said, in brief:
He accepted Mr C wouldve originally opened his positions (between January and 
early April 2020) on the understanding that Admirals spot pricing would be based on 
the near-month contract.
But he was satisfied the terms of the account gave it a far-reaching discretion to 
make changes to its products.
Admiral had informed its customers of the changes and what this meant for open 
positions, albeit after the event.
But as the changes made represented a significant variation to Admirals product, it 
should reasonably have issued notification of the changes before they were applied.
In short, the investigator concluded that Mr C shouldve been kept better informed by 
Admiral. 
But he then went on to consider what Mr Cs position would likely have been if Admiral had 
informed him of the changes before applying them  what, if anything, he would have done 
differently. 
The investigator noted that Mr C wouldve had several options  for instance, taking no 
action and leave his positions as they were, closing the positions and crystallising losses 
and/or opening positions in a different product or with a different provider. But ultimately, he 
wasnt persuaded he could reasonably conclude what Mr C mightve done differently. So, he 
didnt feel that any redress was due.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief, that hed actively chosen to trade 
in the way he had to take advantage of volatility in the oil market, which he wouldve been 
able to withstand. And that hed lost the opportunity to benefit because of changes made by 
Admiral to its product  particularly the inability to open new positions that would have 
allowed a faster exit to reach a break-even point.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
I appreciate that, given his circumstances and intentions, it will have been frustrating for 
Mr C that Admiral took the action it did to change the way it priced Spot Oil. But Im satisfied 
that, given the discretion afforded by its terms, coupled with the unprecedented trading 
circumstances, it was entitled to do so, and it was a reasonable course of action in the 
circumstances. 
And I recognise that Mr C feels that the changes placed him and traders in similar 
circumstances (with sufficient account equity to likely withstand the situation if Admiral had 
continued to price its product using the near-month contract) at a disadvantage. But I think it 
was reasonable for Admiral to take a general view and adopt a course of action that it felt 
provided extra protection for its customers as a whole.  
I note Mr Cs particular concern that Admiral put in place a close only status on 21 April 
2020, which meant that he was unable to open new positions, that wouldve enable him to 
reach a break-even point more quickly. But again, Im of the view that Admirals terms 
allowed for this - Section 2.7 of the terms provided for circumstances in which Admiral could 
 modify, suspend or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, all or any of [its] dealing 
services (in whole or in part) with or without notice. 
That said, I agree that the changes Admiral made were of a significance that they should 
have been made in a fair and reasonable manner and, as such, communicated before they 
were implemented, rather than after. But the key point here is that if they had been, what, if 
anything, would Mr C have done differently? On balance, Ive not seen enough for me to say 
that he would more likely than not have taken a specific course of action other than that 
which he did  closing the positions later in November 2020  such that Im able to 
determine that he incurred a loss for which Admiral is responsible, as opposed to a loss 
resulting from market movements. 
As the investigator noted, had Mr C closed his positions on notice of the change to the spot 
product, he wouldve incurred significant losses. I therefore dont think he would likely have 
closed his positions at the time such notice should reasonably have been made  ie when 
the price was falling and/or negative.
As I say, I appreciate what Mr C has said about having been able to withstand the 
unprecedented, volatile price situation and therefore in future to have gained when prices 
returned to more regular levels. But Admirals product had been changed, and  as Ive explained above  its terms were such that it was entitled to make that and other changes. 
So, the potential profits that might otherwise have been made if the pricing mechanism had 
remained as it was were no longer possible.
In summary, I find that Admiral was entitled to make the changes it did but should 
reasonably have communicated them in advance of their implementation. That said, I dont 
think, on balance, that Mr C incurred losses because of that delay in communication, so I 
dont think it needs to do anything more in respect of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman