DRN-3979363
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with several aspects of the service she received from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, trading as Barclaycard, including in regard to Barclays automated telephone service.
What happened
Ms T was confused by the information she received about her credit account from Barclays
automated telephone service. Ms T telephoned Barclays directly and spoke with a member
of staff with whom Ms T tried to make a payment to clear the full balance outstanding on her
account, but they payment was declined. Ms T was surprised by this as the funds were
available to make the payment, but two further payment attempts were also unsuccessful.
Ms T contacted the bank which held the account shed tried to make the payment to
Barclays from. This bank confirmed that theyd authorised the first two payments that Ms T
had attempted to make to Barclays but noted that Barclays hadnt then taken the authorised
payment amounts. Ms T wasnt happy about this, or with the fact that the authorised
payment amounts remained unclaimed or rejected by Barclays for several days, and thus
were pending and unavailable to her on the account shed tried to pay Barclays from.
Ms T called Barclays again to chase the release of the pending funds from Barclays. But Ms
T wasnt happy with the service she received from Barclays during this call, including that
Barclays agent didnt appear to understand the nature of the issue and didnt call her back
when the call was disconnected.
Over the next several weeks, Ms T continued to be dissatisfied with the information she
received when calling the automated telephone service, and with the service she received
when speaking with members of Barclays staff directly, including being left on hold by one
staff member for over twenty minutes. Ms T was also unhappy with several other aspects of
her experience with Barclays, including that she kept being sent direct debit reminder text
messages that shed told Barclays she didnt want to receive. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Ts complaint. They acknowledged that Ms T hadnt received the
standard of service that Barclays aspired to, and Barclays apologised to Ms T for this and
made a payment of £50 to her as compensation for any upset and inconvenience she may
have incurred. Barclays also acknowledged that their automated telephone service did
sometimes make errors and apologised for this also.
Regarding Ms Ts declined attempted payments, Barclays explained that they couldnt
confirm why this had been the case but suggested that it may have been due to Ms T
updating her address with Barclays at the time the payments were attempted. Barclays also
confirmed that they had updated Ms Ts alert preferences so that she didnt receive any non-
mandatory alerts but noted that alerts for direct debits were mandatory and couldnt be
stopped. Ms T wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, or with the further response she
received from Barclays when she challenged their initial response to her complaint, and so
she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They said that Barclays should increase
the compensation payable to Ms T by a further £50, to a total of £100, and said that Barclays
should confirm Ms Ts contact and alert preferences and ensure that no text message alerts,
including direct debits, were sent to Ms T. Both Ms T and Barclays werent happy with
aspects of the recommendations put forward by our investigator, and so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 February 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law. This means it isnt within my remit to declare whether Barclays have or havent
acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw way. Such declarations would be for a regulatory 
body or a Court of Law to potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal 
dispute resolution service with a remit focussed on fairness of outcome from an 
impartial perspective.
I also note that, in support of her complaint, Ms T has provided several detailed 
submissions to this service. Id like to thank Ms T for these submissions, and I can 
confirm that Ive read and considered all submissions provided to this service by both 
herself and Barclays.
However, I can also confirm that I wont be responded here to every individual point 
that Ms T has raised. Instead, Ill be focussing on what I feel are the key aspects of 
Ms Ts complaint, in line with the remit of this service, as described above.
Ms T is unhappy about the two attempted payments that were authorised by Ms Ts 
sending bank, but which Barclays then didnt claim or reject, meaning that the 
payments remained pending, and that the combined balance remained unavailable 
for Ms T to access or use for several days.
Given that the bank from which Ms T attempted to send the money have confirmed 
that the two payments were authorised by themselves, it seems reasonable to me 
that the issue Ms T encountered here was because, for whatever reason, Barclays 
didnt accept or decline the funds, as Ms Ts other bank suggests. Unfortunately, 
Barclays havent been able to find the reason why this took place, but suggest that it 
may have been because Ms T had updated her address with them shortly before 
attempting these payments, which may have led to issues with Barclays systems 
recognising the payments as being attributable to Ms T.
I can appreciate how Ms Ts frustration in regard to these payments would only have
increased when, having called Barclays to chase the matter, the first staff member 
she spoke with appeared not to understand the nature of the issue and attempted to 
refer Ms T back to the third-party sending bank  which had already confirmed to Ms 
T that theyd authorised the payments, as described  despite Ms Ts attempt to 
explain to that staff member the actual nature of the situation at hand.
Barclays have acknowledged that the standard of service Ms T received in regard to 
the call described above, and subsequent calls that Ms T made, wasnt to the level 
that Ms T should reasonably be entitled to expect. And Barclays have apologised to 
Ms T for this and made a payment of £50 to her as compensation for any trouble or 
upset she may have incurred.But I dont feel that this £50 payment does provide fair compensation for the poor 
service that Ms T received here, both in regard to the telephone calls Ms T had with 
Barclays and in regard to the fact that Barclays didnt authorise or decline the two 
approved payments for several days. As such, Ill provisionally upholding these 
aspects of this complaint and instructing Barclays to pay a further £150 to Ms T  so 
that the total amount of compensation payable is £200  which I feel is a fair 
compensation amount for these issues.
In arriving at this amount, Ive considered the impact that these events would have 
had on Ms T, including her frustration and inconvenience as shed described them, 
as well as that, fortunately, the payments were pending for a matter of days and not 
weeks. And Ive also taken into account the general framework by which this service 
considers compensation amounts for trouble and upset, further details of which can 
be found on this services website.
Given that the issue with the payments may have taken place because Ms T had 
recently updated her address with Barclays, I can understand why Ms T is unhappy 
that Barclays wouldnt allow her to update her address in advance. But Barclays have 
confirmed they only accept address updates after a move to a new address has 
taken place. Its not withing my remit to instruct Barclays to amend their operational 
process. Also, Barclays process here seems reasonable to me, given that it 
mitigates against the possibility that an address might be updated in advance only for 
an unforeseen issue to delay or cancel that intended move.
Ms T is also unhappy with the information she received from Barclays automated 
telephone service. Barclays have explained that their automated service can have 
difficulty providing accurate information when credit payments are pending, and that 
their system can provide incorrect information as a result. However, by Ms Ts own 
admission, she kept an accurate record of her credit account and was aware of the 
balance outstanding and the minimum monthly payments she needed to make. So, 
while I can appreciate how Ms T may have been confused by the information she 
received from Barclays automated service, I dont feel that this had any detrimental 
effect on her to the point that I would consider instructing against Barclays regarding 
it.
Ms T has also expressed her dissatisfaction at receiving unwanted text alerts and 
survey requests from Barclays. In their response to Ms Ts complaint, Barclays 
explained that they had changed the alert preferences on Ms Ts account so that she 
doesnt receive any non-mandatory alerts. However, Barclays explained that the 
direct debit alerts were mandatory, and that the receipt of survey requests was also a 
part of their process that they couldnt opt Ms T out of. This seems reasonable to me, 
especially as Ms T is free to ignore those alerts of survey requests should she 
receive them and given that its not within my remit to instruct Barclays to amend 
their operational processes, as previously explained.
Finally, Ms T is unhappy with how Barclays have responded to aspects of her 
complaint that shes since referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
As this service isnt a regulatory body, I can confirm that I would have referred Ms T 
to the ICO regarding these aspects of her complaint, given that the ICO is the 
relevant regulatory body in this instance.
It also must be noted that it isnt within the remit of this service to consider a 
complaint about how a business has handled a complaint  including the service received by a customer who has made a complaint  and even that complaint is 
about a regulated financial matter.
All of which means that while I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Ms Ts 
favour, Ill only be doing so on the limited basis described above, whereby my 
instruction to Barclays is that they must pay a further £150 compensation to Ms T, so 
that the total compensation amount payable is £200.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms T asked me to reconsider my point about not 
instructing Barclays to stop sending alert texts to her. However, it remains my position that I 
dont feel that such an instruction is reasonable. There are several reasons for this, 
including, as explained in my provisional decision letter, that Ms T can simply ignore the 
alerts (or even block the number from which the texts are received, as Ms T herself suggests 
in her response to my provisional decision).
I can also appreciate from Barclays perspective how they might want to send text alerts that 
they consider to be mandatory in order to have it on record that theyve provided Ms T with 
certain information, and so I dont feel it would be reasonable to instruct Barclays to not send 
text alerts to Ms T that it feels should be sent. That being said, I do of course encourage 
Barclays to adhere to Ms Ts communication preferences as much as prudently possible.
All of which means that I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint 
in Ms Ts favour on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision above. And I therefore 
confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a further payment of £150 to Ms T, so that the total amount of 
compensation payable to Ms T is increased to £200.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard on the basis described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman