DRN-3308438
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused delays with their re-mortgage. 
They ask for compensation. Mr B has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr B and Ms H applied to HSBC for a mortgage and received a mortgage offer at the end of 
July 2020. The mortgage completed on 23 September 2020. Mr B says it should have 
completed before this. He set out where he believes unnecessary delays happened. Mr B 
and Ms Hs previous mortgage was more expensive than the mortgage they took out with 
HSBC. They ask that HSBC compensates them for their additional costs due to the delay in 
re-mortgaging  about £3,500. 
HSBC said there had been poor communication at times, but this hadnt caused delays. It 
offered £300 compensation. 
Our investigator also said that HSBC hadnt caused avoidable delays. He said while HSBC 
had asked Mr B for information hed already provided, its offer of £300 for poor service was 
fair. 
Mr B and Ms H didnt agree. Mr B pointed to errors by HSBC and its solicitor. He said the 
solicitor didnt pass information to HSBC promptly. He was asked for information hed 
already provided. And the solicitor didnt request a redemption statement from his previous 
lender as soon as it could have done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
HSBC says it expects to complete a mortgage within six to eight weeks of issuing a 
mortgage offer. This isnt guaranteed. HSBC issued a mortgage offer to Ms B and Mr H on 
30 July 2020 and their mortgage completed on 23 September 2020, less than eight weeks 
later. HSBC also told Mr B and Ms H it can take 10 days from receipt of correctly completed 
documents to complete the mortgage.
Mr B and Ms Hs re-mortgage wasnt standard. HSBC doesnt usually offer mortgages where 
customers had bought the property less than six months before  as was the case here. 
There had been a change of use of the property from commercial to residential (which was 
the reason for the re-mortgage). This required additional legal work as compared to a 
standard re-mortgage.
HSBC says it didnt cause delays, and the mortgage completed within its usual timescales. 
Mr B looks at the matter differently. He says HSBC and its solicitor didnt act on information 
in a timely manner. He set out instances where he says HSBC and/or its solicitors should 
have dealt with a matter more quickly. He says had they done so, the mortgage would have 
completed sooner and hed have paid less to his previous lender. Mr B says this mis-
management delayed completion by 26 days.
Mr B set out in detail where HSBC or its solicitors could have acted more quickly. He set this 
out clearly in his letters and emails, and in email exchanges with our investigator. Mr B 
provided evidence to support the points he makes. Ive read what Mr B has said and I 
understand the points he makes. I can see that if HSBC and its solicitor had at each point 
acted more quickly when information was provided the mortgage might have completed 
sooner. 
The daily cost of Mr B and Ms Hs previous mortgage was significantly more than the HSBC 
mortgage. I appreciate that they wanted to complete the re-mortgage as soon as possible. 
And they did what they could to achieve this. 
HSBC made some errors here. In late August 2020 Mr B was asked for information which 
hed already provided to the solicitors. However, the solicitors provided this (and other 
information) to HSBC the same day. So while Mr B was inconvenienced, I dont think this 
caused delays.
Also in late August, HSBC asked the solicitor for information which it had provided two days 
earlier and the solicitor re-sent the information. Mr B says this caused a delay. However, the 
information was first sent to HSBC on 26 August 2020 and HSBC confirmed the solicitors 
could proceed with the mortgage on 4 September, six working days later. Despite the error, I 
dont think this response time was unreasonable.
The solicitors requested a redemption statement from Mr B and Ms Hs previous lender on 
10 September. The lender sent a statement which said it was an indicative statement only 
and not to be relied on for the purpose of redemption. It said it would issue an updated 
statement once interest roll has taken place on 14 September 2020. The solicitors received 
a redemption statement on 17 September 2020.
Mr B says HSBCs solicitor should have asked for the redemption statement earlier. He says 
redemption statements are available 24 hours upon request from his previous lender. That 
doesnt seem to have been the case here as the previous lender said HSBC would have to 
wait until after 14 September 2020. I dont know if the previous lender would have provided a 
redemption statement earlier if the request had been made earlier, or if HSBC would still 
have had to wait for the interest roll on 14 September. But, as I said, what Im looking at is 
whether HSBC caused unreasonable delays and I dont think that was the case here. While 
the solicitors could have asked for a redemption statement a few days earlier I dont think 
there was an unreasonable delay in them doing so.
I appreciate what Mr B says, in that the re-mortgage could have happened earlier if HSBC 
and its solicitors had acted more quickly in each of the examples he provided. However, I 
have to be fair to both parties. I need to take into account that HSBC (and its solicitors) 
would have been dealing with applications from other customers. I dont think its reasonable 
to say that HSBC or its solicitor had to take action immediately when information was 
provided. What Im considering here is whether HSBC acted within a reasonable timescale, 
or whether there were unreasonable delays with Mr B and Ms Hs re-mortgage.
Having carefully considered what Mr B has said, I dont think HSBC or its solicitors took an 
unreasonable amount of time to respond or act on information. I dont think the overall time 
taken to complete the mortgage was unreasonable. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require HSBC to pay compensation to Mr B and Ms H for the costs of their 
previous mortgage.
HSBC accepts that Mr B was asked for information that hed already provided and there was 
poor communication at times. Mr B and Ms H were caused inconvenience and frustration by 
this and I think its right that HSBC pays compensation. I think its offer of £300 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay £300 to Mr B and Ms H, as it offered to 
do, unless of course its already paid this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman