DRN-2119127
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the settlement offered by Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (Red Sands) following a claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M held a non-lifetime pet insurance policy with Red Sands from 2014 and it was 
renewed annually. The policy had an annual condition limit of £500, and an overall annual 
policy limit of £3,000.
In January 2020 Mrs Ms cat needed veterinary treatment for a blocked bladder and 
following this was sadly put to sleep. She made a claim for the veterinary treatment. This 
was made in two parts, the first totalling £1,125.39. From this, Red Sands applied the 
condition limit of £500, deducted £99 policy excess and a 20% co-payment. This resulted in 
a settlement offer of £320.80.
The second part of the claim submitted shortly after was for the same condition totalling 
£1,697.47. This was declined in full as Mrs M had reached the annual condition limit when 
the first part was considered. Red Sands also declined the death of pet claim due to the cats 
age and the death being illness, rather than injury related. 
Mrs M was unhappy with the settlement offer as she felt she should receive the full claim 
limit of £500, rather than £320.80, so she complained to Red Sands. 
Red Sands maintained their position that the claim settlement was correct and in line with 
the terms of the policy. As Mrs M was unhappy, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think that 
Red Sands had done enough to explain how the excess and co-payment would significantly 
limit a claim under Mrs Ms policy. So he said that Red Sands should pay the remainder of 
the £500 claim limit (a further £179.20) and pay an additional £100 compensation.
Red Sands didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of the passing of Mrs Ms cat following poor health, I appreciate this 
will have been a difficult time for Mrs M. 
Mrs M held a Basic non-lifetime pet insurance policy with Red Sands. The policy had an 
annual condition limit of £500 and an overall annual policy limit of £3,000. Alongside this, the 
policy had an excess of £99. From 2019 it also had a co-payment of 20% as Mrs Ms cat 
was over 10 years old. The co-payment was a percentage of the claim that Mrs M was 
responsible for. 
In January 2020 Mrs Ms cat became unwell and had some veterinary treatment, before 
sadly being put to sleep. Mrs M submitted claims to Red Sands for the treatment in two 
parts, and also under the death section of her policy.
Red Sands declined in full the second part of the veterinary claim totalling £1,697.47, as the 
limit had been used on the first part of the claim submitted for the same condition (which Ill 
comment on below). And they also declined the death claim on the basis the cat was over 
ten years old and it was as a result of illness, rather than injury. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Red Sands to decline both of these for the reasons given, and it appears 
Mrs M has also accepted this.
But the settlement offered by Red Sands for the first part of the veterinary treatment is what 
is in dispute and what Im deciding here.
Red Sands considered the first part of the claim submitted for a blocked bladder totalling 
£1,215.39. From this they first applied the annual condition limit of £500. They then deducted 
the £99 excess, and then the 20% co-payment. This resulted in a settlement payable to 
Mrs M totalling £320.80.
Having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, I accept that Red Sands has settled 
the claim on strict application of the policy terms. But I dont think thats fair or reasonable in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why.
I would expect any significant limitations or exclusions in the policy to be highlighted to the 
policyholder. Given the excess and co-payment make a considerable deduction to the listed 
claim and condition limit, I think that how this is deducted and the impact this makes is 
significant, and shouldve been highlighted to Mrs M. But I dont think it was.
The co-payment was introduced at renewal in 2019, before this there wasnt a co-payment 
as Mrs Ms cat was under ten years old. It was mentioned briefly in the renewal email without 
context of what it was or how it would be applied. It was noted on the accompanying policy 
schedule in a table. And this table also outlined the condition limit of £500 and it also 
mentioned the £99 excess. 
But there wasnt any indication to Mrs M that she would never be able to claim up to the 
listed £500 limit. And the reference to the excess and co-payment on the table in the 
schedule have asterisks which separately say the excess is payable per condition each 
year, and the co-payment on every claim. But thats the extent of information surrounding the 
excess and co-payment. There isnt any indication as to how they would be applied, or 
indeed that the claim limit advertised would be considerably reduced by these deductions in 
the event of any claim  and that this limit would never actually be payable.
The accompanying insurance product document also mentioned that a claim excess and 
co-payment would be applied, but again didnt explain that these would be deducted from 
the claim and condition limit, or that this limit could never be claimed.Its not until you review the lengthy policy terms that this then says how the excess and 
co-payment are applied, and that the limit would significantly be reduced by this. You also 
need to review the Frequently Asked Questions for a general example of how this would be 
applied in practical terms and what the actual impact of this would be to the listed limit. And I 
dont think putting these important details here was clear enough to highlight to Mrs M the 
true limit of the policy. So, I dont think it wouldve been clear to Mrs M that she would never 
be able to receive the £500 claim limit. I think she wouldve reasonably been of the 
expectation that in exchange for her premiums, she was covered up to £500.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think the settlement given by Red Sands is fair or 
reasonable. Instead, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs M to receive the 
remainder of the £500 policy limit, totalling £179.20. 8% simple interest should also be 
added from date of payment to date of settlement if Mrs M has already paid the invoice, in 
line with our standard approach in circumstances like this.
Its also clear that having a pet which is very unwell, needing costly treatment (mostly 
payable by Mrs M) and being put to sleep will be distressing in itself. But Red Sands not 
explaining the limits of the policy and unexpectedly reducing the claim at what was a difficult 
time has added to the distress that Mrs M has been caused. So I agree with our investigator 
that Red Sands should also pay Mrs M £100 compensation for this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to:
Pay the remainder of the £500 policy limit totalling £179.20
Add 8% simple interest* from date of payment to date of settlement (if Mrs M has 
already paid the invoice) 
Pay Mrs M £100 compensation
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mrs M, it should tell her 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman