DRN-3567164
The complaint
Mr H says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
the purchase of flights on his credit card.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr Hs American Express Services Europe Limited credit card (Amex for 
short) paid for flights abroad for ten passengers across two transactions. Mr H wasnt one of 
these passengers. Two of the passengers have said they made the bookings using a 
booking company I shall call Firm K under two different booking references. And Mr Hs 
credit card financed both these transactions for a total of just over £770. The flights were due 
to fly in April 2020 but were cancelled. There were efforts to get the money back from Firm 
K, but these werent wholly successful. In October 2020 Mr H contacted Amex for help.
Amex says it considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund him 
these transactions because the required relationship for Mr H to bring a successful claim 
under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975 wasnt in place. So Mr H, still unsatisfied, 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Amex didnt have to do any more for Mr H. And Mr H remains unhappy 
and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs Amex credit card was to pay Firm K for the flight bookings. This means Amex may 
have certain responsibilities to Mr H which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary Section 75 has the effect of 
allowing Mr H to hold Amex liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in 
relation to the agreement made as long as certain criteria are met.
Ive considered what we know here about when Mr H raised the matter with Amex and the 
details of the dispute and what we know of the chargeback rules in place regarding time 
limits. Im satisfied on balance Mr H was out of time and hence I dont think Mr H has been 
treated unfairly here. 
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Hs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing provided to the 
supplier for the purchase being made)
A creditor (who has to provide the borrowed amount direct to the supplier and recoup 
from the debtor)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor and receive the 
purchase price from the creditor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mr H) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (Firm K) as well as with the credit 
provider (the Creditor-Amex). And this is the crux of the complaint here. Mr H says that the 
DCS relationship is in place so Amex can be held liable for any breach of contract by the 
Firm K.
Mr H didnt make these bookings. Ive seen emails between two of the passengers 
(separately) and Firm K where the passengers each make clear they made the respective 
bookings with Firm K (the bookings have identifying reference numbers). 
Ive looked at Firm Ks terms and conditions and it defines the parties to the contract as 
being between Firm K and you as Our customer (hereinafter referred to as You, Your, 
Yourself); (You, Your and/or Yourself can also be used to refer to a passenger to be 
transported in an airplane or other mean of transportation under the Contract of Carriage). 
Clearly from the evidence from Firm K Mr H isnt defined as a party to the contract because 
he is neither Firm K, either of the two people who made the bookings nor is Mr H one of the 
passengers on the flight. Mr H says hes a contracting party, but this part of the relevant 
contract is far more persuasive than Mr Hs unpersuasive comments on the matter.
Ive seen the E-tickets for the flights concerned and all the passengers are named. None of 
which are Mr H. The people who booked the flights (and thus defined as a parties to the 
contract) with Firm K are both passengers listed on the E-tickets. And I can see much of the 
email correspondence is between Firm K and these individuals and relates to the bookings 
they made with Firm K. It is clear from this correspondence that Mr H isnt treated by Firm K 
as either a party it has a contract with or a passenger. This is persuasive evidence to me.
S75 requires that this three-party relationship to be in place. But although Mr H funded the 
transaction he clearly isnt one of the contracting parties as per Firm Ks stated contract 
terms. Neither is he a named passenger which would indicate he had a contractual 
relationship with Firm K. So the necessary relationship isnt in place. Accordingly Amex 
hasnt treated unfairly by not taking his claim forward or refunding him.
Mr H is vehement in his opposition to this point of view. So for the purposes of completeness 
and clarity Ill address some of his arguments so he can understand the position fully both for 
this case and any similar situations he may encounter in future.
Mr H says he does have a contract with Firm K as I purchased the tickets. On balance Im 
not persuaded by this. He may have funded the transaction, but he didnt make the 
bookings, fit the definition of being a party or be a passenger to be able to argue that he may 
be a contracting party. So I dont think this is persuasive.
Mr H says I am saying that (Amex) are treating me as the contracting party by making the 
payment. Clearly Mr H has a contract with Amex to pay his credit card bills in line with the 
agreement he has with it in that regard. This doesnt mean he has a contract for the 
provision of these flights for the reasons Ive already described.Mr H says it is unreasonable for Amex to not have liability due to the tickets being arranged 
by others on his behalf. Firstly Ive explained already why Mr H wasnt a contracting party for 
the provision of these flights. He merely funded the transaction. 
It should also be remembered that Amex only have potential liability here under S75 
because this legislation was passed. If it wasnt for this there would be no potential liability 
for Amex here. And bearing this in mind and that the legislation is clear that certain criteria 
are required to be met for Amex to be held liable it is perfectly reasonable for it to give such 
criteria consideration when considering claims made to it. And if the legislation was designed 
to protect people in similar situations to Mr H then it would have been drafted accordingly.
Mr H says By the fact that they (Amex) have paid (Firm K) means that they have accepted 
that I am the contracting party and they are estopped from now trying to avoid responsibility 
on the grounds that I weas not the contracting party. The agreement Mr H has with Amex is 
that Amex will provide him credit to spend as he pleases (within the confines of the 
agreement entered into). This does not mean that Amex concludes whether or not Mr H is a 
party to any contract with outside parties to which Amex has no prior knowledge or 
involvement. For Mr H to argue that because Amex has provided him with credit to pay the 
transactions that Mr H is responsible for (and that Mr H has authorised within the terms of 
his agreement with it) means that Amex has overridden the contractual agreements made by 
other parties who do qualify as parties and entered and agreed the contract with Firm K is 
clearly far from persuasive.
So all in all having considered the matter fully and everything Mr H has said, Im not 
persuaded Amex has treated Mr H unfairly. Im not persuaded that the required relationship 
was made out for the issues Mr H complains about. I find Amexs arguments and evidence 
on the matter persuasive. Mr Hs arguments and evidence fall significantly short of 
persuading me to find in his favour. Accordingly Mr Hs complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman