DRN-1901198
 
The complaint
Mrs J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt credit the money she paid in at a 
branch to her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs J says she went into a branch of NatWest and paid £1,000 in cash to her credit card bill. 
She only took in the paying in slip and did not receive a receipt. When she first complained 
she was not sure of the date or branch shed visited to make this payment. 
NatWest in its final response said it had considered the three branches shed mentioned for 
all dates between 12 August and 24 September 2019. There was no record of any such 
payment or of any cash discrepancies. It said CCTV was not available.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs J had identified 27 
August 2019 as a possible date for the payment. But by the time shed done so there was no 
CCTV available. There were no transactions for £1,000 that day and Mrs J was known as a 
customer to branch staff. Mrs J was now clear that the payment took place on 19 September 
2019. There was no evidence to support this and so he said that he couldnt ask NatWest to 
refund her.
Mrs J did not agree. She said that she was unhappy with the tone of the investigators 
opinion and that it made her out to look incompetent and unable to remember anything. She 
had taken out £700 in cash on 19 September 2019, just before a doctors appointment close 
to the branch at 15:40. Shed used this and £300 in cash she had with her to pay the credit 
card. She did not get a receipt and there was no time to go back and get one. Once shed 
confirmed the date involved the CCTV was no longer available. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im understand why Mrs J is upset at what happened and that without a receipt it was difficult 
when she complained to remember exactly when she did go into a branch a few weeks 
earlier and pay in the money. So, its right to say that at first, she could not remember when 
and where shed made the payment. And that led to NatWest considering evidence over a 
number of dates for three branches.
Ive looked at the statements for her bank accounts with NatWest. And these show that she 
was in the branch where she now says she remembers making this payment on 29 August 
2019 and 19 September 2019. On both days she withdrew money. I dont think CCTV even if 
available would have necessarily resolved exactly what transactions she made. 
On 19 September 2019 the evidence from NatWest shows she withdrew £50 at 15:38  a 
time totally consistent with her then going to her doctors appointment. I cant see a 
withdrawal for £700. And as NatWest has already confirmed to her there was no payment in 
of £1,000 recorded or any cash till discrepancies that day to account for this. Its said to this 
service that if it is given the top part of a bill it would stamp that when a payment is made. 
But it otherwise doesnt give a receipt as part of its process.
For completeness I also looked at 29 August 2019 - again a day when Mrs J was in this 
branch - then just after 11.50. She did pay in £1,000 and NatWest has confirmed this was in 
cash to one of her bank accounts. I can see it was credited. And she took out £625 in total 
across two accounts. I appreciate that the cash she paid in corresponds to an amount Mrs J 
says she paid to her credit card. But again, there is no record of her paying it to her credit 
card bill or of any cash discrepancies in branch that day to account for this.
I dont doubt Mrs J has brought this complaint in good faith. But Im sorry to have to tell her 
that I dont have evidence to support her paying the £1,000 for her credit card bill that is 
disputed. And Im afraid that means I dont have a basis to require NatWest to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman