DRN-3579693
The complaint
Mr F has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Options UK Personal Pensions LLP 
(formerly) Carey Pensions UK LLP (Options).  Mr Fs complaint is that Options accepted 
his application to open a SIPP and invest in a property-based investment arrangement 
without first making adequate checks on the adviser, who he says was unregulated, and the 
investment which he says is high risk and unregulated.  
What happened
Mr F says in late 2011 he was cold called by a firm I will call the introducer.  He says he it 
dealt with him over the phone and couriered documentation to him.  
Mr F lives in the UK.  The introducer was regulated in Gibraltar and was authorised to carry 
on certain regulated business in the UK by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) under a 
MIFID passport arrangement.
Mr F says he was advised to invest in property in the Cayman Islands with Crown 
Acquisitions Worldwide Limited (Crown). 
Mr F applied for a SIPP with Options in December 2011.  Some parts of the form were 
completed by hand, while most of it was completed in print.  
On that application form details of Mr Fs financial adviser were recorded (in print) as the 
introducer firm in Gibraltar. 
Details of Mr Fs two existing personal pensions and their estimated transfer values were 
also included (in print) on the SIPP application form.  
The SIPP application form was submitted to options by Crown.
The SIPP was set up just before the end of the 2011.  There then seems to have been some 
confusion as Mr F appears to have signed the right to cancel documentation.  Options 
contacted the introducer a in January 2012 and asked it to arrange for Mr F to send it an 
email to confirm he had signed the cancellation rights in error and wished to proceed with 
the transfers of his pensions to Options.
Options requested the transfer values from the two existing pension providers which 
received in February 2012.  Options has provided copies of emails which show the 
introducer chasing up this process and contacting one of the provider to sort out a problem 
and also saying it would arrange for Mr Fs Member Declaration. 
Also in February 2012, Mr F signed a document headed:
SIPP MEMBER INSTRUCTION AND DECLARATION
ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT- CROWN ACQUISITIONS WORLDWIDE
In that document Mr F instructed Options to purchase land through Crown in the Cayman 
Islands for £76,000.
The form contained a number of declarations including that Mr F:
was fully aware that the investment is an Alternative investment and as such is 
considered High Risk and/or Speculative.
confirmed that he had read and understood the documentation regarding the 
investment and had taken appropriate advice.
agreed the land would be sold prior to any residential development.
Was awre that Options acted on execution only basis and had not provided and 
advice.
(The version of the document I have seen is only the first page of a two-page document and 
I anticipate that the document also included an a declaration that Mr F would indemnify 
Options against any claims made against it in connection with the investment.)
As I understand it, the investment was made in February 2012. The investment involved a 
plot of land in the Cayman Islands on which Crown had obtained planning permission to 
develop the property into a subdivision comprising various residential lots.  Crown had 
arranged the preparation of plans for the construction of residential lots and agreed to obtain 
necessary approvals for those plans to develop the individual lots. Investors could buy 
individual lots and those bought via a SIPP were to be sold from the SIPP before any 
residential building work commenced.  Mr Fs investment was in two lots.
In 2015 Options contacted Mr F and informed him there was further legal work and costs to 
be paid to complete the investment and that it had obtained estimates for those costs from 
two law firms in the Cayman Islands.  
As I understand it there were then further problems with the Crown project  though I do not 
currently know the details.  In May 2017 Options wrote to investors with a report from 
lawyers relating to the problems with the investment.  It was mentioned there was a court 
case being brought by a different SIPP operator against Crown.  It suggested obtaining 
valuations for the property.
In late 2017 Mr F complained to Options with the help of a Claims Management Company 
(CMC).  The CMC made a number of points on behalf of Mr F including:
Mr F was advised to invest in ahigh risk unregulated investment by an introducer who 
was not authorised to give advice in the UK.
Options should not have accepted business from the introducer.  It should not have 
accepted Mr Fs application to open a SIPP and invest in the Crown investment.
Options had acted in breach of the various guidance issued by the regulator to SIPP 
operators.
Options had acted in breach of s.27 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) in accepting business introduced to it in breach of the general prohibition.
Options should compensate Mr F for the losses he has suffered.
Options did not uphold the complaint.  It made a number of points in response including:
Mr F was introduced to Options by a man I will call Mr W of the introducer.Mr F instructed Options to open a SIPP and make his investments and Options 
followed those instructions.
Options does not give advice.  It acts on a non-advisory basis. 
Options carried out due diligence checks on the introducer.  The introducer is based 
in Gibraltar where it is regulated.  In any event Options is permitted to accept 
introductions from unregulated introducers.
Options also carried out due diligence checks on the investment to ensure it was 
suitable to be held in a UK pension scheme.
By signing the member declaration Mr F confirmed he had read and understood the 
documentation relating to the investment and understood it was unregulated and high 
risk.
Options is not responsible for ensuring the investment was suitable for Mr F.  It is not 
permitted to give such advice.
Mr F referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, and it was considered by 
one of our investigators.  She thought the complaint should be upheld.  The investigator 
made a number of points including:
Options did not give advice and was not required to do so.  It was still, however, 
under obligations as a non-advisory SIPP operator.
Refusing to accept business does not amount to advice.
The regulator has issued a number of publications which remind SIPP operators of 
their obligations.
The introducer had an EEA passport to provide certain services in the UK.  The 
passport covered investment advice, but it did not cover advice to transfer or switch 
pensions which required additional permissions which the introducer did not have.
Options had explained on other cases that the introducer did not provide advice and 
only acted on an execution only basis.
Options was aware that it was the introducers intention to introduce non-advised 
clients to it in order to invest in Crown investments which are esoteric, high-risk 
investments.  Options should have identified that such investments were unlikely to 
be suitable for most retail investors. And that only relatively small investments were 
likely to be suitable for sophisticated investors.
The introducers business model of introducing such investments to retail investors 
should have been a concern to Options and if it had acted fairly and reasonably it 
would not have accepted Mr Fs application.  And if it had done so Mr F would not 
have suffered the losses he has suffered in his pension.
The investigator then went on to explain how she thought Options should put things right.
Options does not agree with the investigator. It has made a number of points in response, 
including the following:
The ombudsman must take account of the legal and contractual context of the 
relationship between it and Mr F.  Options acts on a strictly execution only/non-
advised basis and is member directed throughout.  
Options does not give advice and the ombudsman should not come to a finding that 
places on it a legal duty that does not exist.
The investigators findings are based on duties that would not be recognised by a 
court without explaining why that is appropriate.The complaint has been considered on the basis of guidance that had not been 
published at the time of events in this case.
There is no evidence the introducer gave advice.
Even if the introducer gave advice, it held the necessary permissions to do so.  There 
was no pension transfer, as defined in the rules, in this case.  This was a switch from 
one personal pension to another.  
In any event SIPP operators are permitted to accept introductions from non-regulated 
introducers.
There was no reason why Options should not accept introductions of business from 
the introducer.
There was no breach of duty by Options.
Against this background it is unfair and unreasonable to place liability for the losses 
flowing from the investment on the execution-only SIPP operator.  It is unfair to make 
a SIPP operator responsible for the members poor investment choices.
Options did not cause Mr F to suffer a loss.  It is likely Mr F was keen to proceed with 
the investment and would have done so even if Options had not accepted business 
from the introducer.
The redress methodology suggested by the investigator is unfair.  The index 
proposed is higher than the approach used in other cases.
Options request an oral hearing in order properly to determine Mr Fs complaint.  Its 
procedurally unfair and inappropriate that a fact sensitive matter such as this should 
be decided wholly on the papers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the points made by the parties.  I have not however responded to all of 
them below; I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main issues.
Preliminary point - Options request for an oral hearing
Options says an oral hearing is necessary to explore issues such as how Mr F came to hear 
about the investment and his understanding of the investment and the roles played by the 
parties, and Mr Fs motivation for entering into the transaction.
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which certain disputes may be 
resolved quickly and with minimum formality (s.225 FSMA). DISP 3.5.5R of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution rules provides the following:
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a 
hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties to take part in a 
hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the Ombudsman considers appropriate 
in the circumstances, including by telephone. No hearing will be held after the Ombudsman 
has determined the complaint.Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, I am satisfied that it would not normally be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
The key question for me to consider when deciding whether a hearing should be held is 
whether or not the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
We do not operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we have the power to 
carry out our own investigation. And the rules (DISP 3.5.8R) mean I, as the ombudsman 
determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues on which evidence is required and 
how that evidence should be presented. I am not restricted to oral cross-examination to 
further explore or test points.
If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances we are able to request this information from either party to the complaint, or 
even from a third party. 
I have considered the submissions Options has made. However, I am satisfied that I am able 
to fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In this case, I am satisfied I 
have sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. So, I do not consider a 
hearing is required. The key question is whether Options should have accepted Mr Fs 
application at all. Mr Fs understanding of matters are secondary to this. 
In any event  and I make this point only for completeness  even if I were to invite the 
parties to participate in a hearing, that would not be an opportunity for Options to cross-
examine Mr F as a witness. Our hearings do not follow the same format as a Court. We are 
inquisitorial in nature and not adversarial. And the purpose of any hearing would be solely for 
the ombudsman to obtain further information from the parties that they require in order to 
fairly determine the complaint. The parties would not usually be allowed direct questioning or 
cross-examination of the other party to the complaint.
As I am satisfied it is not necessary for me to hold an oral hearing, I will now turn to 
considering the merits of Mr Fs complaint.
Relevant considerations
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations 
to deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 
and 6 which say:Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The specific rules do not supplant 
them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of them to the 
particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the 
application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to 
augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach 
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair and 
reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, 
the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. 
They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 
6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers s.228 FSMA and the approach an ombudsman is to 
take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness 
of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, 
and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant 
considerations that were required to be taken into account.As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. So, the Principles 
are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint.
The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court 
refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgment.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And I am of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ 
Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants case before 
me.
Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the Adams 
judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal was not a 
challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, but was rather 
an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform the extent of the 
duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
The facts in Mr Fs case are different from those in Adams. There are also differences 
between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Fs 
complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after 
the contract was entered into. In Mr Fs complaint, I am considering whether Options ought 
to have identified that the business introductions from the introducer involved a risk of 
consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
the introducer prior to entering into a contract with Mr F.
On this point, I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
both Adams cases. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able 
 to give advice to Mr F on the suitability of its SIPP or the Crown investment for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are bound 
by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of 
their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for 
COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
introducer, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
Although Ive quoted from the 2009 Review, I have considered all of the publications I 
referred to above in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to good industry practice in the BBSAL 
case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way 
to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the judge in 
BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman.
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Fs 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration 
of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those publications are irrelevant to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles, or the publications, obliged Options to ensure the 
SIPP application, pension switch and SIPP investment were suitable for Mr F. It is accepted 
Options was not required to give advice to Mr F, and could not give advice. And I accept the 
publications do not alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are 
evidence of what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which 
would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs on a non-
advisory basis. I am satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this 
business would include deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or 
referrals of business. The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry 
practice observed by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including 
being satisfied that a particular introducer is appropriate to deal with.
It is clear from Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile, referred to below, that it 
understood and accepted its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on the introducer. The introductory paragraph at the head of the form says the 
following:As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence on 
independent financial introducer firms looking to put business with us and gain some insight 
into the business they carry out. We therefore request that you or the appropriate individual in 
your firm complete and sign this Profile questionnaire and our Terms of Business Agreement 
as part of our internal compliance requirements.
Thank you for taking the time to complete these documents to ensure the FSA requirements 
are met.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding. I note in 
submissions on other complaints Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it 
had in mind when considering its approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of 
whether it should accept business from a particular introducer.
All in all, I am satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on the introducer and the investment which was consistent with 
good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options 
should have used the knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept 
or reject a referral of business or particular investment.
Options position in broad terms:
In very broad terms Options position is:
It carried out due diligence to a degree that was appropriate for its role as non-
advisory SIPP operator.
There is no evidence the introducer gave advice to Mr F.
Even if the introducer did advise Mr F it had the regulatory permissions to do so.
It is unfair to hold Options responsible for Mr Fs losses.
Due diligence carried out by Options on the introducer:
Options did carry out some due diligence on the introducer.  Amongst other things it carried 
out an assessment of the introducer using a questionnaire it called an introducer profile. This 
was completed in October 2011.  That questionnaire recorded a number of points relating to 
the introducer including the following:
It was regulated in Gibraltar.
It had no pensions advisers and no pensions specialists.
It essentially carried on no pensions business.
It had recently employed a new appointed rep specialising in SIPPs business but all 
on an execution only basis.
Its typical clients were HNW clients  meaning high net worth.
It was intending to use SIPPs to hold investments with Crown.
Options does not seem to have asked about the new appointed rep who specialised in 
SIPPs despite that person being the source of the new business that would be referred to it.  
It did not seem to ask about, or at least record on that form, expected levels of business or 
how that business would be sourced by the appointed rep.Options was satisfied from the checks it made that the introducer was regulated in Gibraltar 
and had permission to carry on regulated activities in the UK as result of an EEA passport. 
Due diligence carried out on the investment:
This investment involved buying lot(s) on a larger parcel of land all of which was to be 
developed.
I am satisfied that Options knew enough about the investment to understand that, from the 
point of view of a UK based pensions investor, the investment should be regarded as high 
risk, and esoteric.  It was likely to be difficult to value and illiquid.  I note that Options largely 
referred to the investment in these terms on the Member Declaration it required Mr F to sign 
as part of the application process.
From its assessment of the investment Options ought to have understood It was unlikely to 
be suitable for most retail investors and even for high net-worth investors and/or 
sophisticated investors it was unlikely to be suitable for more than a small proportion of their 
pension. 
I do not say Options was under any obligation to assess the suitability of the investment for 
individual members.  But it should have been aware that there was a considerable risk of 
consumer detriment if this investment was sold to investors for which it was not suitable.
Options also ought to have been sceptical about the likelihood of investors choosing to 
invest their pensions in such an investment without being advised or possibly unfairly 
encouraged to do so.
In my view Options should have been concerned about the introducers new business model 
which involved a new appointed rep who apparently specialised in SIPP business, but only 
on an execution only basis, where the SIPPs were being set up in order to invest in Crown 
investments. 
Did the introducer give advice in this case? 
Chapter 12 of the then FSAs, now FCAs, Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) provided 
guidance to firms, such as Options, running personal pension schemes.  The guidance at 
the time of Mr Fs application included:
Q2. What is a personal pension scheme for the purposes of this regulated activity?
The term is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for 
people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as personal 
pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, unit trust managers 
or deposit takers (including free-standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order (RAO), Mr Fs existing personal pensions and his 
new SIPP all come within the definition of a personal pension.  And Article 82 of the 
Regulated Activities Order provides that rights under a personal pension are a specified 
investment.Advising a person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor to buy or sell such an 
investment is a regulated activity under Article 53 RAO.
And making arrangements for another person to buy or sell such an investment is a 
regulated activity under Article 25 RAO. So too is making arrangements with a view to a 
person who participates in the arrangements buying or selling such an investment.
As explained by Andrews LJ in the Court of Appeal in the Adams case, the question of 
whether there has been advice under Article 53 should be approached by standing back and 
looking at what the consumer was told in a realistic and common sense manner.  And 
Newey LJ said: 
"advice on the merits" need not include or be accompanied by information about the relevant 
transaction. A communication to the effect that the recipient ought, say, to buy a specific 
investment can amount to "advice on the merits" without elaboration on the features or 
advantages of the investment.
And the court said a holistic assessment of the behaviour should be made when considering 
whether there has been making of arrangements under Article 25.
Mr F says he was cold called by the introducers firm and that it recommended that he invest 
in the Cayman Island property investment.  Mr F says that he dealt with the introducer on the 
phone and that introducer was persistent in making calls to him.  The recommendation was 
that Mr F use his pension to make the investment and that Mr F switch his existing personal 
pensions to a SIPP with Options in order to do so.
Mr Fs version of events is consistent with the picture presented by the documentation.  He 
was not a high net-worth investor.  Nor was he a sophisticated investor.  He was a normal 
retail investor.  And it is difficult to see why such a retail investor should choose to move his 
pension from ordinary personal pensions to a SIPP, which is a fairly specialist pension 
arrangement, to invest in a property-based investment in the Cayman Islands unless he was 
advised to do so. It is not particularly plausible that such a retail investor would choose to act 
in that way without advice and would instruct a firm, based in Gibraltar, to arrange that for 
him on an execution only basis.
The introducer entered into an introducer agreement with Options in order to introduce 
members who were going to invest in Crowns property-based investments.  It therefore 
seems that the situation was that it was the introducers intention to act as an introducer of 
business to Crown.  Or put another way, it had a business interest in encouraging people to 
invest in Crown investments and so it is likely it would have recommended the investment as 
Mr F has said.  And there is evidence the introducer was involved in helping with the SIPP 
application and investment process - it chased things up, it helped with the payments from 
the existing pension providers, with sorting out whether Mr F wanted to cancel or proceed 
with the application and with the member declaration and instruction to invest form. 
I note the introducer firm was named on the SIPP application as the financial adviser and 
investment manager for the SIPP.  And I note that the verification of identity page of the form 
was completed by a man with the introducer firm who recorded his position with the firm as 
Financial Adviser.
In all the circumstances, I consider Mr Fs account of events - that he was advised to make 
the investment, and to transfer his pensions to a SIPP with Options to do so - to be 
plausible.  So I am satisfied there is evidence that the introducer did advise Mr F to make the Crown 
investment.  And that it advised Mr F to open a SIPP with Options, close his existing 
pensions and switch them to Options to make the Crown investment and that this was all 
one single piece of advice.
It is also my view that Options should have realised there was a real risk that the introducer 
would give such advice when introducing consumers to it to take out SIPPs in order to invest 
in Crown investments.
The regulatory status of the introducer:
The introducer profile did not identify where the introducer was intending to carry on the 
execution only business that would lead to referrals of business to Options, but it would need 
to be authorised in the UK for any regulated activity it carried on in the UK.  And Options 
satisfied itself that the introducer was authorised in the UK.  It had an EEA passport under 
the MIFID Directive to carry on certain activities in the UK including investment advice 
relating to certain investments.
At the time of Mr Fs SIPP application (and at the time the Introducer Profile was completed) 
SUP App 3 in the Regulators Handbook set out guidance on passporting issues including a 
table at SUP App3.9.7G which mapped the MIFID activities to RAO activities and the RAO 
investments that correspond to those activities.  It included the following: 
Services set out in Annex I to MiFID
SUP App 3.9.5 G   
Table 2: MiFID investment services and activities Part II RAO 
InvestmentsPart III RAO 
Investments
A MiFID investment services and activities
1.Reception and transmission of orders in relation to 
one or more financial instrumentsArticle 25 Article 76-81, 83-
85, 89
5.Investment advice Article 53 Article 76-81, 83-
85, 89
Accordingly, arranging deals in investments under Article 25 and advising on investments 
under Article 53 RAO are not covered by a MIFID passport if the activity relates to Article 82 
investments ie rights under a personal pension.  
And guidance at SUP 13A.1.2G of the Handbook, in existence at the time of Mr Fs 
application and when the introducer profile was completed, made clear that an EEA firm that 
wanted to carry on activities in the UK which are outside the scope of its EEA rights would 
require a top up permission.
It was Options understanding that the introducer would introduce business to it under which 
SIPPs were to be set up for the purpose of investing in Crown investments in the SIPPs.  
The introduction of applications to Options to establish a SIPP and the instruction to make 
investments in that SIPP would likely amount to arranging deals in investments.
If the introducer gave advice on the merits of taking out the SIPP or making the investment 
this would amount to advising on investments.Accordingly the introducer would need the relevant top up permission if it carried on one or 
other or both of those activities in the UK.  And carrying on one or other or both of those 
activities was a realistic possibility in the circumstances of the introducer arrangement 
between the introducer and Options.  And Options thought the introducer was regulated to 
carry on those activities in the UK.  However the introducer did not have top up permissions 
needed to carry on those activities in relation to the rights under personal pensions.
my view so far:
In summary it is my view that Options should have:
had serious concerns about the business model of the introducer. 
considered there was a real risk that the introducer, despite saying it would only act 
on an execution only basis, would very likely stray into giving advice to take out 
Crown investments and advise consumers to set up a SIPP with Options and transfer 
their existing pensions to it in order to make the Crown investment. 
understood that the introducer did not have the necessary top up permissions to 
advise on rights in personal pensions (or arrange deals relating to them under Article 
25 RAO).
considered that it was exposing its customers to an unacceptable level of risk of 
unsuitable SIPPs, and the real risk of considerable detriment which might include 
serious, possibly complete, loss of their pension.
In all the circumstances it is my view that Options should have decided not to accept 
business from the introducer.  
And it should not have accepted Mr Fs application for a SIPP or his instruction to request 
the transfer of his existing pensions to it or his instruction to invest in the Crown investment.
Is it fair to ask Options to compensate Mr F?
In deciding whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr F has suffered on the 
Crown investment I need to look at what would have happened if Options had done what it 
should have done i.e. had not accepted Mr Fs SIPP application in the first place.
When considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary 
judgment in Adams ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with 
restitution/compensation.
I am required to make the decision I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case and I do not consider the poinmt that Mr F signed an  
indemnity (if he did) means that he shouldnt be compensated if it is fair and 
reasonable to do so.
Had Options acted fairly and reasonably it should have concluded that it should not accept 
Mr Fs application to open a SIPP. That should have been the end of the matter  it should 
have told Mr F that it could not accept the business. And I am satisfied, if that had 
happened, the arrangement for Mr F would not have come about in the first place, and the 
loss he suffered could have been avoided. The financial loss has flowed from Mr F 
transferring out of his existing pensions and into a SIPP. For the reasons I set out below I 
am satisfied that, had the SIPP application not been accepted, the loss would not have 
been suffered. Had Options explained to Mr F why it would not accept the application from the 
introducer or was terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that Mr F would have 
tried to find another SIPP operator to accept the business.  Rather it seems that Mr F 
had to be pursuaded to make the investment and would more likely have dropped the 
idea if Options had rejected the application than do anything he could to make the 
investment in some other way with some other pension provider. 
So Im satisfied that Mr F would not have continued with the SIPP, had it not been for 
Options failings, and would have remained in his existing pensions. And, whilst I accept 
that the introducer is responsible for initiating the course of action that has led to his loss, I 
consider that Options failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of action when it had 
the opportunity and obligation to do so.
I have considered paragraph 154 of the Adams v Options High Court judgment, which says:
The investment here was acknowledged by the claimant to be high risk and/or 
speculative. He accepted responsibility for evaluating that risk and for deciding to proceed 
in knowledge of the risk. A duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best 
interests of the client, who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be 
construed in my judgment as meaning that the terms of the contract should be overlooked, 
that the client is not to be treated as able to reach and take responsibility for his own 
decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Fs actions 
mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Options failings. I do not say Options 
should not have accepted the application because the investment was high risk. I 
acknowledge Mr F was warned of the high risk and declared he understood that warning. 
But Options did not share significant warning signs with him so that he could make an 
informed decision about whether to proceed or not. In any event, Options should not have 
asked him to sign the  SIPP member instruction and indemnity (or should not have 
considered and accepted it) as the SIPP application should never have been accepted or 
alternatively the transaction should have been terminated at a much earlier stage in the 
process.
So I am satisfied in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, that it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Options should compensate Mr F for the loss he has suffered.
Options failure appears to have caused Mr F serious financial loss. I accept Mr F will also 
have suffered much worry, and distress and Options should compensate Mr F for this 
also.
I am not asking Options to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. 
That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I 
am not able to determine. However, that fact should not impact on Mr Fs right to fair 
compensation from Options for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr F to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Fs 
SIPP application from the introducer or for not terminating the transaction before 
completion.In light of the above, Options should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr F would be in if he had not transferred from his existing 
pensions. In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr F has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Crown investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Fs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr F direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr F £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr F has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Options should work out the likely value of Mr Fs pensions as at the date of 
my final decision, had he left them where they were instead of transferring to the SIPP.
Options should ask Mr Fs former pension providers to calculate the current notional 
transfer values had he not transferred his pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining notional valuations then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
index should be used to calculate the values. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for 
the type of return that could have been achieved in Mr Fs pensions.  
I consider both the above to be fair and reasonable and consistent with my stated aim 
of trying to return Mr F to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Fs 
SIPP application from the introducer or for not terminating the transaction before 
completion.  
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr F has suffered. The Crown investment 
should be assumed to have no value. 
2. Take ownership of the Crown investment
Options should take ownership of the Crown investment, for a nil consideration, if possible.
If Options is unwilling to take ownership of the investment its value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. Options may ask Mr F to provide an undertaking 
to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the 
investment. That undertaking should only take effect once Mr F has been compensated in 
full, to include his receipt of any loss above our award limit, and should allow for the effect of 
any tax and charges on the amount Mr F may receive from the investment and any eventual 
sums he would be able to access. Options should meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking and any reasonable costs for advice required by Mr F to approve it.
3. Pay compensation to Mr F for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr F has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
On the other hand, Mr F may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr F direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr F should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Fs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr F is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
4. Pay Mr F £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr F has been caused distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. 
Mr Fs pension is now worthless.  This is money Mr F cannot afford to lose and its loss will 
naturally have caused him much distress and inconvenience.  I consider a payment of 
£500 is appropriate to compensate for that.
SIPP fees
If Mr Fs SIPP has to remain in effect only to continue to hold the illiquid Crown investment it 
will not be fair for Mr F to have to continue to pay fees to Options to keep the SIPP open.  So 
if the SIPP has to remain open only in order to hold the Crown investment, Options must 
waive all future SIPP fees until the SIPP can be closed.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Options 
receives notification of Mr Fs acceptance of this decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Fs complaint against Options UK Personal Pensions 
LLP.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and award: I require Options UK Personal Pensions LLP to pay Mr F the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Options 
UK Personal Pensions LLP to pay Mr F any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Options UK 
Personal Pensions LLP to pay Mr F any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP pays Mr F the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F. 
If Mr F accepts my decision, the award is binding on Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. My 
recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Options UK Personal Pensions 
LLP doesnt have to do what I recommend. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to Court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman