DRN-3474656
The complaint
Mr T complains about U K Insurance Limited T/a Churchill Insurances (U K Insurance)
inaccurate diagnosis of subsidence and overall handling of a claim under his building
insurance policy.
What happened
In 2011 Mr T noticed cracking adjacent to joints where an extension, built in 2003, abutted
his property. He told U K Insurance. It arranged for the problem to be investigated, which
included the drains being inspected. It concluded that subsidence was the cause of the
cracking. Support bars were installed, and the cracking was repaired.
In February 2017 Mr T changed insurance companies. He says he needed to use a
specialist insurer because of the subsidence issue. And this took significant work to arrange
on his part. In August 2018 he identified cracking in the same areas as in 2011. His insurer
arranged for a surveying company to assess the damage. It identified movement in the same
area affected in 2011. It was critical of the previous investigations and conclusion of
subsidence. And suggested the cause hadnt been correctly identified.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with the handling of the matter by U K Insurance and referred his
complaint to our service in October 2018. The outcome was that the company had to 
reinvestigate the cause of the problem. An engineers report was obtained, which concluded
cracking was the result of differential foundations between the main building and the
extension. A schedule of works was proposed to install flexible joints and to repair the
cracking.
Mr T says he sought quotes for the required work. He also asked that his property was
removed from the subsidence database based on the report U K Insurance had obtained.
The company asked Mr T to provide an independent surveyors report to support his
request. He did this at his own cost. The report concluded the cracking was caused by
differential settlement and not subsidence.
U K Insurance agreed to remove the property from the subsidence database. It returned the
excess payment Mr T paid in 2012 for £1,000, plus interest at 8%. It also refunded the cost
of his surveyors report. And paid £500 in compensation plus a further £100 for a subsequent
shortfall in its service Mr T had highlighted.
Mr T was unhappy with this outcome and again referred his complaint to our service. He
points out the significant distress and inconvenience associated with his home being
incorrectly included on the subsidence database. He considers the compensation offered by
the company to be inadequate. And says he has paid higher premiums because of its
mistake.
Our investigator decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. She didnt think the company had
treated him fairly and asked that it pay him £900 compensation and to refund the premium
increase associated with the subsidence claim.
Mr T didnt agree. He again points to the increase in premiums following the subsidence
claim. He says the compensation is still too low considering the impact of the companys
mistake. He says plans to sell the property in 2015 were abandoned because of the impact
on its market value linked to the listing on the subsidence data base. U K Insurance, agreed
to pay the increased compensation, but disagreed premiums had increased due to the
subsidence claim.
The parties were unable to agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I dont think U K Insurance
treated him fairly when it incorrectly diagnosed the problem at his property or when
compensating him for the impact this had. Let me explain.
Mr T obtained a surveyors report In August 2020. This comments on the report obtained by
U K Insurance in 2011, where subsidence was identified as the cause of the cracking, and
the structural engineers report produced in 2020, where differential movement between the
main house and the extension were highlighted as the cause of the cracking. I have
highlighted pertinent points from the report Mr T obtained below:
an Engineers report by [U K Insurance] dated [December 2011] concluded the cause of
the cracking was indicative of a minor episode of subsidenceleakage from the
underground drain could be responsible. Two drainage surveys dated [January 2012] and
[April 2012] reported no leakage to the underground drainage lines. However, the Claim
continued to be managed on the basis of subsidence. No monitoring was undertaken to
confirm this.
A certificate of Structural Adequacy was issued [September 2012]. Even though two drain
surveys proved there was no drain leakage that might cause subsidence the Certificate
confirmed the damage in our professional opinion caused by escape of water from defective
drainage.
Cracking reopened in the Summer of 2018 in the same locationA Chartered Structural
and Civil Engineer inspected [February 2020] trial pits\drains [March 2020]. Their report
issued [May 2020] confirmed both the drains and water main were water tight with no
leakage or escape of water. The report found that recurrence of damage (and most likely
the cause of the original damage) is concluded as being due to differential settlement
between the two structures. This does appear to be exacerbated when there is dry weather
and therefore it should be expected that such differential settlement will continue. The
problem lies with the detailing of the repairs and also the original construction to some
degree in failing to accommodate this movement.
..As a result it was recommended that new movement joints are installed at the junctions
between the original bungalow and the extension. The proposed work is detailed in the
Schedule of Works dated [February 2020]. The specification is logical and appropriate. This
work includes the removal of all cracked \ loose blocks and bricks prior to insertion of new
ties and flexible joint at the point of junction between the original bungalow and the
extension. Care skill and attention to detail is required in execution of the work. It isreasonable to expect over time the cracking will show again.
The conclusion by the Engineer in the 2020 report in my view is a logical reasoned
assessment of the evidence. This finding of differential settlement rather than subsidence is
a more accurate objective insightful conclusion. In my professional opinion the pattern and
location of the fractures is consistent with differential settlement not subsidence.
The engineer report commissioned by U K Insurance in 2020 pointed to a problem with
differential movement between the two structures. This refers to the juncture between the
main bungalow and the later built extension where the cracking occurred. The report says
the earlier conclusion of foundation movement due to water leaking from a blocked drain, is
unlikely to be accurate.
Mr Ts surveyor supports the findings from the engineers 2020 report. He concludes in a
similar fashion to say the original diagnosis of subsidence was not the cause and the
cracking resulted from differential settlement.
Based on all the evidence, I think the view that the cracking is caused by differential
movement at the juncture of the bungalow and extension is persuasive. The 2020 structural
engineers report and Mr Ts report are both critical of the original diagnosis of subsidence
due to leaking drains. Their view being this was shown to be unlikely in 2012 when no
leaking drains were found during the investigations. However, the surveyor notes that
despite this information, the approach to dealing with the issue didnt change.
Mr Ts property was recorded as impacted by subsidence. Based on the reports provided -
this diagnosis was inaccurate. U K Insurance put ineffective measures in place to tie parts of
the building together, based on this. This also meant further cracking occurred, due to
differential movement being the unaddressed underlying cause.
Based on the reports obtained in 2020, I think it was fair for U K Insurance to remove the
subsidence claim from Mr Ts insurance history. In addition to refunding the cost of the report
he commissioned as well as the £1,000 excess charge he had paid for the subsidence claim
with 8% interest.
In its final complaint response dated September 2020, the business says, As we are now
agreeing there wasnt subsidence we are therefore not liable for any repair costs. The
damage isnt due to an insured peril and the necessary movement joints shouldve been
installed at the time of construction. Mr T says he accepts U K insurances view that it isnt
responsible for the repairs to his property.
U K Insurance offered £600 compensation to apologise for the inconvenience caused by,
wrong diagnosis and poor repairs.
I have thought about the businesses offer and whether this constitutes fair compensation,
given the issues Mr T has described resulting from the inaccurate diagnosis of subsidence.
Mr T says this matter has taken up a significant amount of time on his part, involving phone
calls, emails and letters. He says when seeking alternative insurance, additional work was
required on his part to provide information given the previous subsidence claim. Mr T says
when the cracking reappeared in 2018, he spent more time and effort dealing with his new
insurer as well as U K insurance. He describes how U K Insurance wasnt helpful and
rejected his claim. He found this extremely frustrating. Particularly as its been shown that its
diagnosis wasnt supported by the evidence available in 2012.
Mr T says he had to abandon plans to sell his property in 2015/2016 in order to downsize.He says that as the property had been subject to a subsidence claim, selling it was an
unreasonable prospect because of the impact on the market value. He didnt want to have to
sell his property at a discounted price.
Mr T says he has experienced ongoing worry for over ten years, caused by his property
being unnecessarily registered as being impacted by subsidence.
I can sympathise with the position Mr T found himself in. Discovering his property was
affected by subsidence must have been distressing. This impacts on the availability and cost
of insurance, as well as having a negative impact on potential buyers should the property be
put up for sale. We now know this diagnosis was inaccurate meaning this neednt have
happened.
Mr T spent a lot of time dealing with this matter at the time of the original claim in 2011 and
later in 2018. It was left to him to demonstrate the cause of the cracking, in liaison with his
new insurer and by commissioning an independent report himself. I accept this caused him
substantial inconvenience and frustration and required the involvement of the ombudsman to
get the business to investigate further.
In light of the above, acknowledging the subsidence claim was incorrectly in place for
approximately ten years, the time spent corresponding, arranging and paying upfront for a
surveyors report, unnecessary remedial work and recurrence of cracking due to the incorrect
diagnosis, the impact on plans to sell the property, hassle and worry when obtaining
alternative cover and the overall distress caused to Mr T and his family over this protracted
period, I dont think U K Insurances offer of compensation fairly recognises the impact it
caused. To fairly acknowledge this impact, I think a payment of £1,000 is more appropriate.
Increased premiums
Mr T says his insurance premiums increased as a result of the subsidence claim. He doesnt
think this is fair or that he could avoid this. U K insurance says the subsidence claim didnt
impact on his premiums. It says premiums increased because a new business discount
ended. Also because of claims Mr T made under his home contents insurance, which
affected his no claims discount (NCD). It says the buildings insurance NCD was never
reduced, which shows the subsidence claim didnt impact on his premium.
U K insurance confirms the following premiums were paid by Mr T:
2010 to 2011 - £119.70
2011 to 2012 - £225.78
2012 to 2013 - £257.58
2013 to 2014 - £398.56
2014 to 2015 - £373.12
2015 to 2016 - £311.64
2016 to 2017 - £273.75
It says the premium in 2012 was £225.79 and in 2017 it was £273.75, which is about a £10 a
year increase. It suggests this is proof that there were no excessive premium increases.
UK Insurance also says three claims had been registered at the time the subsidence claim
occurred. This included an accidental loss claim under contents cover in July 2010,
accidental damage under personal possessions in March 2011 and an accidental damage
claim under contents insurance in July 2011.
We asked for more detailed underwriting information to show the premiums werentimpacted by the subsidence claim. In response U K Insurances underwriters say the main
reason for the difference in premiums is that differing retention discounts were given in some
years and not in others. It also refers to a substantial new business discount that was
applied at inception. U K Insurance says the subsidence claim has not affected Mr Ts
premium. His other claims have, as have the discounts he received, but it maintains no
loadings have been added at any time during the life of the policy in relation to the
subsidence claim.
It isnt unusual for new customers to benefit from introductory discounts. General practice is
for this to be recouped through premium increases in later policy years. We dont think this is
unreasonable. Mr T had other claims around 2011 that would also impact on his premium.
Its also been explained that other retention discounts were applied over the years, which
varied.
Mr T describes how he paid £135 for home and contents insurance with a different provider
in February 2021. He has compared this against what he paid to U K Insurance over the
years. He calculates the difference at just over £1,385. I acknowledge his comments, but I
dont think this shows U K Insurance added a subsidence loading to his premiums.
I can understand why Mr T thinks his premiums were impacted by the subsidence claim. But
I think the response the underwriters provided is persuasive that having reviewed Mr Ts
premiums in detail, they are clear the subsidence claim didnt impact on the premiums he
paid. Because of this I wont be asking it to provide a refund.
In considering all of this I dont think U K Insurance treated Mr T fairly when handling his
claim. I think it acted reasonably in refunding his insurance excess and the cost of the
surveyors report, but I think it should pay a total of £1,000 compensation to acknowledge
the distress and inconvenience caused by its inaccurate subsidence diagnosis.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and U K Insurance Limited t/a Churchill 
Insurance should:
pay Mr T £1,000 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience he and
his family have experienced.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
U K Insurance responded to say it had no further comments to make and accepted the 
findings in my provisional decision.
Mr T responded to say he didnt accept the provisional decision. He refers to the facts of his 
complaint and says it was U K Insurance that decided his house was subject to subsidence. 
He says it relied on flawed reports, carried out flawed construction work to remedy the 
problem, failed to identify the true cause, added his property to a subsidence database 
without clear supporting evidence, prevented him moving home, and that all this has taken a 
considerable time to resolve. 
Mr T highlights the line in my provisional decision that says, he says he needed to use a 
specialist insurer because of the subsidence issue. He asks, where have I ever said that. 
Mr T says he did not need to use a specialist insurer. Rather, because of increasing 
premiums with U K Insurance he saw little option but to look around for cheaper insurance. Mr T says U K Insurance has not paid him any compensation. He received a cheque for 
£500, that he returned to the business. But he has no knowledge of receiving any further 
compensation that is alluded to in my provisional decision. 
Mr T says because U K Insurance stated his property was subject to subsidence, he had no 
option other than to remain under its cover or seek specialist insurance with subsidence 
specialists. He says his choice of insurer was limited because of U K Insurances incorrect 
diagnosis. Mr T disagrees with the businesses stance that the subsidence diagnosis had no 
impact on his premiums. He thinks the increase in premium over the years are related to this 
and doesnt accept U K Insurances explanation as to why his premium changed over time.
Mr T says £1,000 compensation is inadequate and not representative of the issues he faced 
over the years. He says U K Insurance is responsible for providing recompense for the 
excess insurance premiums he has been charged.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that my findings need to change from that set out in my 
provisional decision. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I will respond to his further comments 
below.
With reference to the specialist insurer point Mr T has highlighted under the What 
happened section in the provisional decision  this was drawn from his comments in his 
initial submissions to our service. Specifically, where he says he changed insurance 
companies via a specialist insurer. He says he did this because his home had suffered 
subsidence and he had no alternative but to search the market for specialist insurance. 
I acknowledge Mr Ts comments. But I dont think it was inaccurate to include reference to 
this in the What happened section of my provisional decision. So, this doesnt impact on 
my findings. 
Mr T maintains that he returned U K Insurances compensation cheque made out for £500. 
He says he has received no other compensation payment. 
In my provisional decision I talked about the compensation payments the business had 
offered Mr T. This amounted to £600 based on the information provided by U K Insurance. I 
acknowledge Mr Ts comments that he only received a cheque payment for £500 and that he 
returned this without cashing it. I dont dispute his account of the compensation he was 
offered. But I dont think that this impacts on my findings. In my provisional decision I said 
the compensation offered by the business wasnt fair. I thought £1,000 (in total) was more 
appropriate. If U K Insurance hasnt made any payments to date, and if Mr T accepts my 
final decision, it will be required to provide a total compensation payment of £1,000.     
I accept that U K Insurance is responsible for incorrectly determining Mr Ts home was 
subject to subsidence. I agree with his comments that this determination has been shown to 
be unfounded, based on the investigations carried out and the expert opinion that was 
obtained. By no means is my intention to diminish the impact this has had on Mr T over the 
years.  
I am aware of the time he has spent corresponding and dealing with this matter. The 
inconvenience this caused, and the need to arrange a surveyors report and pay for this 
upfront. The ineffective remedial work that was carried out, and the disruption this also caused. The disruption to Mr Ts plans to sell his property and the overall distress and 
inconvenience resulting from his home being considered subject to subsidence over a 
lengthy period. But I think £1,000 in compensation is fair in relation to these issues.
As discussed in my provisional decision I asked U K Insurance for information from its 
underwriters to show that there were no loadings relating to subsidence. It responded to say 
this can be confirmed as the no-claims discount on Mr Ts policy was never reduced for his 
buildings insurance. Its response is clear that the subsidence claim didnt impact on his 
premiums. 
I understand why Mr T thought the subsidence claim had an impact on his premiums over 
the years. But Im satisfied from the underwriting information provided by U K Insurance that 
this wasnt the case. It has explained that the price differed over the years as Mr Ts 
premium benefitted from retention discounts in some years and not others. It says a new 
business discount was applied at inception and several claims were made after the policy 
was set up  relating to the contents aspect of his insurance. 
I have thought about Mr Ts view that he paid more in premiums than he shouldve given the 
subsidence diagnosis. And his view that he couldve received cheaper premiums from a 
different insurer. But from what I have seen Im satisfied Mr Ts premium wasnt impacted by 
a subsidence loading. I acknowledge his calculations using the 2010 premium as a baseline. 
But its been shown that a number of factors impacted on the premium pricing in the years 
following. So, I cant reasonably say he did pay more because of the subsidence claim. And I 
dont think Mr Ts shown that he would have paid a lower premium elsewhere. As discussed 
above, a number of claims had been recorded and retention discounts were applied in some 
years. Although the claim in 2011 wasnt due to the cause of subsidence  there was still a 
claim/incident that would need to be declared when taking insurance. So, whilst I 
acknowledge Mr T has strong views about the premiums he paid, Im not persuaded to 
change my decision.       
In summary I dont think U K Insurance treated Mr T fairly when considering the inaccurate 
subsidence diagnosis. But I think £1,000 compensation is fair to acknowledge the distress 
and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. U K Insurance Limited T/a Churchill Insurance should:
pay Mr T £1,000 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience he and
his family have experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman