DRN-3544375
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly declined its
current account application which prevented it applying for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
The complaint has been brought to the service by Ts director, Mr C.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr C decided he wanted to apply for a BBL on Ts behalf, so he approached
Barclays as he already held his personal account with the bank. Mr C was initially told to
apply online, but he was unable to do so as the bank required all businesses applying under
the BBL Scheme to have a business account before they could apply for a BBL.
Mr C called Barclays several times throughout June. He was either unable to get through
due to long wait times or, when he did speak to the bank to ask someone to open the
account, they said theyd arrange a call back  which Mr C then didnt receive.
In September, Barclays contacted Mr C to see if he still wanted to open the account for T 
which he confirmed he did. Mr C continued to liaise with the bank throughout early 2021, but
the bank said that due to Ts business structure, it was unable to open the account over the
phone and Mr C would have to make an appointment to do this in branch. It also said all of
Ts directors would need to attend the appointment.
Barclays upheld Ts complaint. The bank apologised that it hadnt told Mr C that it wasnt
accepting applications from new customers in June and that there had been delays in
contacting him. It accepted that its service should have been better and offered T £300
compensation for the inconvenience. However, the bank explained it was unable to change
its process and if T wanted to open a business account to apply for a BBL, all directors
would need to attend an appointment in branch to do this.
Mr C tried to book the appointment but unfortunately, there were no appointments available. 
Barclays told Mr C that the only other way for him to apply for the account was to become
Ts sole director and shareholder, and  he could then apply online. But he would need to
speak to his accountant to do this.
In early March, Mr C contacted the bank again as he was having issues registering the
business structure changes for T and he was concerned he would miss the deadline to apply
for a BBL. Barclays then told Mr C that T wasnt eligible to apply for a BBL with the bank, as
the company hadnt been trading through a Barclays business account before 1 March 2020.
Mr C didnt think this was fair as this hadnt been part of the eligibility criteria when T had first
approached the bank in May and asked the investigator to review Ts complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said in summary that while
Barclays had made mistakes she didnt think this had prevented T from applying for an
account and subsequently a BBL. She also said it was within Barclays discretion to decide
with eligibility criteria it applied when assessing BBL applications. The investigator thought
Barclays should have told Mr C sooner that T wouldnt be eligible for a BBL with the bank 
but the £300 compensation it had offered was enough to put things right.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the case was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has explained at length the issues T has been caused by the banks decision 
not to allow it to open a business account for many months  and therefore leaving it 
without a BBL. I recognise that any delays would be difficult, and even more so in a 
pandemic. But even though Barclays made some errors with the information it gave 
Mr C about Ts account application, I dont think the bank treated T unfairly with how 
it applied its criteria.
Although the BBL Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had some 
discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. And while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers 
applying under the Scheme had a business relationship, lenders were entitled to 
require one.
Mr C has told us he thinks T shouldve been eligible to apply for a BBL with Barclays, 
as it initially applied for a business account with the bank in May 2020 - for the sole 
purpose of getting a BBL. However, Barclays has told us it doesnt have any records 
of Mr C contacting the bank until June 2020 and there is also no record of an account 
application being submitted by T. The bank has explained that Mr C needed an 
appointment in branch to open a new account for T due its complex business 
structure so he couldnt do this online  and there was a shortage of appointments 
when he contacted the bank in June, so it wasnt able to arrange this for him.
Barclays told us that it had made the decision at this point not to open accounts for 
new customers and focus on existing customers only due to the Coronavirus 
pandemic. This was a decision the bank was allowed to make, and I think it was 
reasonable. But I think Barclays could have told Mr C, so he didnt wait for the bank 
to return his call and then call again when it wasnt received.
In October Barclays began opening new accounts for customers again and the bank
contacted Mr C to see if he still wanted to open an account for T, which he confirmed 
he did. Initially, the bank was unable to arrange an appointment for Mr C as there 
was still a shortage of branch appointments due to the initial impending deadline for 
the BBL Scheme. In November, Barclays told Mr C it would be unable to help T open 
a new account as it wasnt possible to do this online and there still werent any 
branch appointments available.
However, the bank didnt tell Mr C at this point that even if T had been able to open a
business account, it wouldnt have been able to apply for a BBL with Barclays - as 
the banks lending criteria had changed, and T would have needed to be trading 
through an account with the bank on or before 1 March 2020. For the reasons above, 
this requirement was something that the bank could decide to implement. I think it 
made an error in failing to advise Mr C of this.
This meant that when the BBL Scheme was extended until March 2021, Mr C spent 
the next few months contacting Barclays again to get an appointment with the belief 
that T would be able to apply to the bank for a BBL once it opened an account. As there was still a shortage of appointments, he attempted to apply online. Mr C called 
Barclays numerous times and was given different advice about how T could apply 
without going to the branch. Eventually the bank suggested he transfer T to himself 
as sole director and shareholder, as he could then apply online.
Mr C followed the banks advice and applied to become the sole shareholder and 
director of T. I dont think Mr C would have spent the time calling the bank, 
completing online applications, and changing Ts business structure if hed been 
given the correct information by Barclays in November. Mr C continued to contact the 
bank throughout March to see if he could now proceed with the current account 
application as the BBL Scheme was ending on 31 March. But on 8 March  after Ts 
new business structure had been confirmed - Mr C was told that T wasnt eligible for 
the BBL as the bank was only accepting applications from customers whod 
held/traded through accounts with it since 1 March 2020.
I recognise that Mr C believes Barclays should have allowed T to apply for the BBL,
disregarding this requirement as it hadnt been in place when the company was first 
looking to apply for the loan back in May/June 2020. But I dont agree. There is no 
record of any application being received from T in May, and it wasnt the banks fault 
that it wasnt able to offer T an appointment due to the volume of customer 
applications it was receiving. And I think its reasonable that the bank applied its 
eligibility criteria at the time T was actually in a position to apply for the account.
Barclays has accepted that it should have contacted Mr C sooner after hed made 
enquiries about opening an account for T. The bank also says it should have made it 
clearer that T couldnt make an online account application due to its structure, and 
that it couldnt apply for a BBL as its business account wasnt held with the bank on 
or before 1 March 2020. Barclays has agreed that these errors caused T 
inconvenience and has apologised and offered £300 compensation.
However, its clear the banks actions have caused T inconvenience from the number 
of calls Mr C made to get support making the online applications, to the suggested 
change of business structure - which wouldnt have affected Ts ability to apply for a 
BBL. So I dont think the banks compensation offer is enough to put things right. 
Given the circumstances of the complaint, I think Barclays should increase the 
amount of compensation to £500 to address the inconvenience caused.
I invited T and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  Barclays didnt agree with the decision. The bank 
said in summary that:
Its website was clear that if there was more than one director, they couldnt complete 
the BBL application online and would need a branch appointment  so it wasnt 
responsible for the time Mr C had spent contacting the bank about this. 
It was suggested that Barclays advise T to change its business structure, but this 
wasnt a requirement of the bank and wasnt reasonable for an adviser to make this 
recommendation as T should speak to an accountant or Financial Adviser.
  
T also didnt agree with the decision. Mr C said in summary that:
He felt Barclays should honour Ts BBL application as its was due to the banks 
delays and misinformation that it had missed out.
T was caused delays by the banks incorrect advice to change its business structure 
which didnt affect the BBL application.£500 compensation wasnt enough as T had missed out on a £10,000 BBL - £500 
would only cover two months of Ts basic running costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my original decision. 
Mr C has repeated why he feels Barclays has acted unfairly and why he believes T is eligible 
for a BBL. However, as I said in my provisional decision, Barclays eligibility requirements 
were reasonable and, at the time Mr C was able to get an appointment to apply, T didnt 
meet these. 
I acknowledge that it was frustrating for Mr C that he was unable to get an appointment in 
the branch to open an account. However, Barclays was experiencing an unprecedented 
demand for appointments when T needed one, and I think it was reasonable for the bank to 
see the other customers who had already made an appointment. It is unfortunate that the 
banks lending criteria had changed before October when T was finally able to get an 
appointment. However, Barclays was able to adjust its criteria as it saw fit.
Mr C says T was caused inconvenience as a result of the bank telling him to change Ts 
business structure  and I agree. Barclays has said it wasnt their advisors role to tell Mr C 
to change Ts structure so he could apply online  and I also agree with this. However, that 
is what their adviser did when Mr C called the bank for advice in February. And looking at 
the circumstances of the complaint, Im persuaded that the reason Mr C made so many calls 
to Barclays was to follow through on the advice he was given on this call as he believed that 
by doing so, T would be able to apply online for the BBL. And I have taken this into 
consideration when looking at the award for the inconvenience caused. 
I recognise that Mr C doesnt feel the compensation is enough to cover the loss of the BBL. 
But as Ive explained in my provisional decision, it was reasonable for the bank not to accept 
a BBL application from T as it hadnt been trading through an account with the bank on or 
before 1 March 2020. So I dont agree that T missed out on the loan because of an error on 
the banks part. However, I do think T was caused inconvenience by the misleading 
information that Mr C was given. Therefore my decision remains the same in that Barclays 
should pay T £500 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
T £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman