DRN-3030391
The complaint
M complained that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked and closed its business account without prior 
notice and was concerned that Lloyds behaviour was discriminatory. M is represented by its 
director, Mr M. But for ease Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of M.  
What happened
M has had a business current account with Lloyds for some years. Lloyds wrote to M on 
18 February 2020 and asked him to complete the Confirmation of Business Details Form it 
attached. The letter said the information requested was needed to meet regulatory 
requirements and to help keep accounts protected from fraud. It gave M a deadline of 
23 April 2020 to return the form, together with any supporting evidence. 
M rang Lloyds on 7 April 2020 and provided it with information by telephone. Shortly 
afterwards Lloyds decided it needed additional information. It tried to phone M about this on 
16 April 2020 but the telephone numbers it had on file were not working. 
Lloyds wrote to M on 7 August 2020 and again asked him to complete the Confirmation of 
Business Details Form it attached. It gave M a deadline of 12 October 2021. It said if the 
information wasnt received, it would block Ms account and proceed to closure. 
Lloyds then sent a reminder letter to M on 22 September 2020, as the information hadnt 
been received. It reiterated the deadline of 12 October 2020. It also said it would restrict 
access to the account and then proceed to closure, if it didnt hear from M.  
Lloyds blocked the account on 14 October 2020 and sent it for closure on 4 November 2020, 
as it hadnt received the requested information from M. It wrote to M on 5 November 2020, 
told him about the account closure and enclosed a cheque for the account balance. M then 
complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds didnt uphold Ms complaint. It said it periodically reviewed bank accounts to protect 
all parties from fraud. Lloyds said it contacted a colleague of Ms in mid-April 2020, who 
refused to provide it with any information. It said that because of Covid, it extended the 
deadline for information being provided and so wrote to M on 10 August 2020, with a further 
reminder on 22 September 2020. It said when it didnt receive the information requested, it 
closed Ms account. Lloyds said M also felt discriminated against, but it said it ensured all 
customers were treated fairly irrespective of their circumstances.  
M remained unhappy and so complained to this service. He said he had completed these 
reviews in the past and had telephoned Lloyds in April 2020 and provided it with the 
information requested. He said he didnt receive the letters sent in August and September 
2020 and the first he knew of the account closure was when he received the letter in 
November 2020. M also said he was concerned Lloyds behaviour towards him in wanting to 
carry out these cheques was discriminatory. 
Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. M was unhappy with the 
outcome and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
Ive first of all looked at whether it was fair for Lloyds to review Ms account and to ask M to 
update the information it had about his business. And Im satisfied it acted fairly. Lloyds, like 
other regulated financial institutions, has a number of legal and regulatory requirements that 
it has to meet. And, from what Ive seen, this review falls into that bracket. This service will 
rarely interfere with the steps businesses take to comply with regulatory requirements. And 
this service isnt in a position to comment on the requirements themselves, as we arent the 
regulator. 
I know that M was concerned that Lloyds were carrying out these reviews on a regular, 
almost yearly basis because of his nationality and because he does business with contacts 
abroad. But I havent seen anything that suggests M is being dealt with in a discriminatory 
way. As I said, Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that these checks were carried out so 
that Lloyds was complying with its legal and regulatory requirements. 
I then looked at whether Lloyds acted reasonably and in line with its terms and conditions 
when it blocked and then closed Ms account. And Im satisfied it did. 
M said he received the first review letter sent to him by Lloyds in February 2020. Lloyds 
system notes show that he rang Lloyds on 7 April 2020, so prior to the deadline of 
23 April 2020. M provided information to Lloyds and Lloyds later decided it didnt have all the 
information it needed. So it tried to phone M on 16 April 2020 to get more information, but 
didnt get a response as the phone numbers it had on file werent working. 
Lloyds followed this up in August 2020 and sent another letter to M, again asking him to fill 
out the review form. No action was taken by M so another letter was sent in 
September 2020. Both letters said the account would be blocked and then closed if the 
information wasnt provided. When Lloyds didnt hear from M by the deadline, it closed the 
account and sent the balance to M.  
I know that M said he didnt receive these letters. Ive seen the information M has provided 
about complying with previous reviews and so I dont doubt this is the case. But my role is to 
look at whether Lloyds has made an error here. I can see that the letters sent in August and 
September were correctly addressed, and the system notes indicate they were sent. Lloyds 
is only responsible for ensuring it correctly sends post. It has no control over what happens 
to post once its been sent, so it cant be held responsible for any problems with post being 
delivered. What the above means is Im satisfied Lloyds did what it needed to do to request 
the information from M, provide a reasonable deadline and let M know what would happen if 
he didnt respond. 
Ive also seen the terms and conditions of Ms account and these say that Lloyds can stop 
providing consumers with a banking service or end its relationship with consumers entirely 
when, immediately you fail at any time to meet any identification or other checks required 
by law or regulation
So Im satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly and in line with its own terms and conditions when it 
blocked and then closed Ms account. I note M is concerned about a factual error Lloyds might have made in its final response 
letter to him  where it said it tried to contact him in mid-April 2020 and spoke to a colleague 
of his who declined to provide information. But even if it did make this error, it makes no 
difference to the outcome here. The issue is that Lloyds once again contacted M in August 
and September 2020 to request information and these requests werent responded to. And it 
was because these later requests werent responded to that Lloyds moved to block and 
close the account. 
I know my decision will disappoint M, but I could only ask Lloyds to reinstate his bank 
account if I thought it had made an error when it closed the account. And Im satisfied it 
hasnt.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman