DRN-4303296
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about problems hes had with The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limiteds online portal which Mr B uses to manage his pension fund. 
What happened
Mr B has a stakeholder pension with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential). Mr B frequently makes fund switches, using Prudentials online portal. 
Unfortunately hes experienced multiple problems since Prudential updated its online 
process in 2020. Im not going to set out all thats happened, just some of the key 
developments.
Mr B sought assistance from us in July 2022. Hed earlier, on 3 February 2022, written to 
Prudentials Chief Executive Officer. Mr B said, over the last year or so, hed reported 
various concerns, in the main via the online portal. On several occasions, his complaints 
werent acknowledged. Prudential had apologised in August 2021 for an unactioned switch 
request the previous month and had paid £200 compensation. Prudential had also paid £250 
in April 2021 for a pricing error. The issues were serious and concerned fund pricing 
discrepancies and delayed actioning of switch requests. On the assumption the requests 
had been lost, Mr B had repeated them. When, months later, theyd been actioned, the 
duplicate switches had to be reversed. Mr B said, at the very least, he expected all fees 
since 20 November 2020 to be reimbursed. 
Prudential had upheld Mr Bs complaint. In its final response letter dated 30 March 2022 
Prudential said it had been migrating its systems to new and improved versions. Despite 
thorough testing, there were some unexpected issues. Prudential said the switches and 
reversals had been completed and Mr B had been contacted about them and to confirm the 
valuation of his fund. The concerns hed raised regarding forward pricing and the unit price 
difference had been discussed over the telephone and by email. Prudential said it would be 
sending Mr B a further £500 for the poor service and the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused.  
Mr B had remained unhappy and had written to Prudential on 12 May 2022 explaining why. 
Amongst other things he said, between 1 October 2020 to 31 March 2022, Prudential had 
deducted fees totalling £10,788.13. Throughout that period Mr B had submitted multiple 
complaints, almost all of which werent acknowledged or addressed. The failings had not 
only caused distress and inconvenience but also financial loss. He didnt agree that all the 
relevant switches and reversals had been completed and that his account was now in order. 
Prudential had confirmed in March 2022 that the valuations reported for one fund were 
incorrect. A system correction request had been raised but it hadnt yet been actioned. Mr B 
said hed made decisions about switches in and out of the fund based on the only data 
available to him and which quoted an incorrect price. Hed calculated the cumulative loss 
from the incorrectly quoted pricing on his fund holdings since December 2020 as a loss on 
investments of £2,968 and £2,970 on disinvestments so £5,938 in total. 
In addition he was seeking £300 for his time and expenses in resolving the error (over six 
hours at £50 per hour); a further goodwill gesture of £1,000 for identifying what he termed a 
catastrophic fund value misstatement  Mr B said he suspected, if a consultant had been 
employed, Prudential wouldve been charged tens of thousands of pounds; and 
reimbursement of fees totalling £10,788.13. That was £18,026 in all from which the £500 
Prudential had offered could be deducted. Mr B also said he expected detailed answers to 
the complaints previously submitted relating to duplicated and unactioned switch requests 
and, if Prudential was unable to answer those complaints because of the time that had 
passed, hed accept £500 per unanswered complaint which made (based on eleven 
unanswered complaints) a further £5,500.
 
Prudential hadnt replied to Mr Bs letter and so hed referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigation hasnt been straightforward. Our investigator had to make a large number 
of further enquiries and a significant amount of further information has been provided. And, 
by the time our investigator started to look into what had happened, Mr B had made a further 
complaint. Mr B explained that for a number of weeks in July/August 2022 hed been unable 
to use the online switching service because his fund balances were incorrectly shown and it 
looked like he was fully invested with nothing held in cash. He said hed queried it three 
times without response when suddenly, and presumably as a result of a systems correction, 
his fund balances reverted to what hed been expecting to see. Mr B had received a 
response to that complaint and he supplied a copy of Prudentials final response letter of 16 
September 2022. 
Prudential hadnt upheld the complaint. In summary it said its technical team had confirmed 
thered been no further system errors or processing delays in relation to the fund switches 
Mr B had requested. And the technical team couldnt see any errors with Mr Bs record and 
all the switches hed requested had been completed or were awaiting fund prices to become 
available prior to completion. 
Mr B provided screenshots setting out the complaints hed made on 11 July, 25 July and 3 
August, together with images of his pension dashboard showing what hed viewed. We 
asked Mr B if he could say if all the fund switches hed requested had been made. Mr B said 
hed gone through his spreadsheet and he set out some fund switches he wasnt sure had 
been actioned or when. 
We passed on what Mr B had told us to Prudential. We asked Prudential if the other issues 
Mr B wanted us to look into could all be dealt with as a continuation of his earlier concerns, 
to which Prudential agreed. 
Prudential provided fund switch details. It said Mr B had requested many switches  every 
few days for some months. And thered been many occasions when hed requested another 
switch before the previous switch had been processed and so the system was playing catch 
up. There were times when his fund switch requests were invalid as he hadnt taken into 
account the transactions that had yet to be completed. 
The investigator asked both Prudential and Mr B for some further information. Mr B provided 
further details as to how hed calculated his financial losses in respect of the forward priced 
fund and the impact of Prudentials pricing discrepancy  which Mr B confirmed appeared to 
have been corrected. 
Prudential explained how forward pricing worked and which wasnt the same as share 
dealing. Prudential said the pension funds were intended for long term investment and not 
daily trading by way of serial fund switches. As it wasnt clear if Prudential had seen the screenshots Mr B had provided as to what had 
happened in July and August 2022 we sent copies to Prudential. We explained that Mr B 
had said hed sold units in one fund on 11 July 2022 before purchasing units in the same 
fund on 10 and 15 August 2022. There was also a discrepancy in another fund holding  the 
15 August 2022 screenshot showed an increase in the units held but Mr B had said he didnt 
buy any units in that fund during the relevant period. 
Looking into what had happened turned out to be complicated and seems to have involved 
Prudential reconciling a large number of transactions. It also came to light that there were 
switches requested at the end of 2022 that may not have gone through and corrections had 
to be made. About the switches in July 2022, Prudential said earlier switches hadnt been 
properly completed. Prudential acknowledged it hadnt been possible to keep the policy up to 
date throughout so thered have been times where the policy and what was shown online 
wont have been accurate. 
Once the investigator was satisfied she had enough information she wrote (on 19 May 2023) 
to Prudential (with a copy to Mr B) setting out her view and her reasons. She said Mr Bs 
complaints were:
Prudential had delayed in putting through some of the fund switches hed requested 
and, although Prudential had told him those issues have been resolved, Mr B wasnt 
convinced thats correct. 
The unit price for one of his funds is always incorrect and so his investment decisions 
have been based on the wrong information.
For a period in 2022, the online portal showed Mr Bs fund to be in an incorrect 
position which prevented him from making investment switches for about a month.
Prudential hadnt always acknowledged and/or responded to the various issues Mr B 
has had to raise over the past few years. 
The investigator said Mr B was seeking compensation for financial losses, a refund of the 
fees taken by Prudential and additional compensation for having to deal with the problems 
hed had. The investigator went on to set out her findings. In summary:
About the forward priced fund, it seemed Prudential agreed that what Mr B had said 
was correct and there had been a pricing discrepancy. Mr Bs position was that, 
because of the error, he suffered a financial loss each time he requested to buy or 
sell units in the affected fund. But the investigator said the decision to switch funds 
was Mr Bs and the actual buy or sell price wasnt known at the time. The correct unit 
price will have been applied to any fund switches relating to the particular fund. And, 
looking at the movement in the unit price, it wasnt certain Mr B wouldve made a 
different investment decision, had the date shown been correct. In any case, hed 
identified there was an issue with the pricing, so hed have known that on any 
subsequent switches.  
The delay in fund switches appearing online was a complex issue. Prudentials 
literature refers to the length of time it should take to switch from one fund to another. 
But there were different permutations and not just one specified timescale. The date 
the switch request was made and when the switch was completed was sometimes a 
few days and sometimes a few weeks apart. The latter might seem unreasonable. 
But Prudential had explained that sometimes the requested switches hadnt been 
able to be put through because an earlier requested switch hadnt been completed. 
Mr B requested frequent fund switches. He has a stakeholder pension plan which 
isnt a product designed for high volumes of trading and that had made it difficult, at 
times, for Mr B to operate his pension fund as he wanted to. 
The investigator didnt think it would be fair for Prudential to have to refund the fees Mr B had paid. But Prudential hadnt always been able to keep Mr Bs fund updated 
online or provide him with information that switches were pending. The online 
provision offered to Mr B had caused him a great deal of inconvenience. The 
investigator noted in particular the problems Mr B had reported to Prudential in July 
and August 2022 and when his cash holding  the fund he typically uses to switch 
into and out of other investment funds  was a lot lower than he expected.  
The investigator accepted Mr B was likely to have made fund switches over that 
period, based on his usual pattern and that he clearly logged into his account on 
multiple occasions over that period. But she didnt think that meant Mr B had suffered 
any financial loss. Based on how he was managing his pension fund, it was difficult 
to say, had the funds been available sooner, and without the benefit of hindsight, 
what switches hed have carried out over this period. On balance the investigator 
couldnt be sure that any investment decisions made during that period wouldve put 
Mr Bs fund in a more favourable position. 
Looking further back, Mr B was aware his fund switches didnt seem to be put 
through as hed asked. He took steps to repeat his instructions where necessary or to 
make alternative switch requests. Again, based on the frequency Mr B was reviewing 
and changing the funds within his pension plan, it was difficult to say any financial 
loss had resulted from the problems hed encountered.
The investigator recognised that Mr B would say, if no financial loss had occurred, 
that was wholly due to his vigilance. And to a large extent the investigator agreed. 
But Mr B was able, and did make changes, to his pension during this time, aimed at 
making money or at least avoiding losing it.  
The investigator said Prudential should pay a further £250 for the inconvenience 
caused in July 2022 and because Mr B had to raise further issues with Prudential. 
Prudential agreed with the additional £250. Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. His 
initial response was that it seemed a mispricing error was acceptable and the customer had 
no right of redress. He was also concerned by what had been said about a pension being a 
long term investment and customers shouldnt rebalance their portfolio or switch in and out 
of funds on a regular basis when there was demonstrable evidence of significant superior 
performance in actively managed funds. He said he was only operating within the facilities 
provided.
When Mr B responded in more detail he told us hed had further problems which he felt 
illustrated that the problem wasnt the frequency of switches but the unreliability of 
Prudentials systems and the competence of staff. Mr B made a number of further 
comments. Ive summarised the main points: 
Mr B maintained that, where the price of a fund was stated incorrectly, compensation 
to the value of the lost units was fair. Whether he subsequently became aware the 
pricing was wrong and continued to make switches was irrelevant. He had no choice 
but to manage his pension which was with Prudential. Hed made fund switches to 
reduce the exposure of his funds to market volatility and to position the funds for 
hoped for superior performance. He had every contractual right to expect the 
switches to be processed using the price quoted. 
The issue of the price quoted and whether forward pricing  which means the future 
price is uncertain  was an excuse for the pricing error by Prudential which theyd 
now accepted. The future price is a straightforward calculation of the past price plus 
the movement for the current day. The past price is quoted on the Prudential system 
and it was this price that was misquoted. The movement for the current day for, say, 
a tracker fund is easily accessible from a look at the market movement for the day 
from any published index. It may not be 100% accurate because it will not reflect the 
actual Prudential fund, but it will be 99% accurate.Mr B compared his situation to buying a product from a supermarket with a shelf 
price and a discount voucher. Youd expect to pay the price shown less the discount 
and so, if you then saw youd been charged more and were then told the shelf price 
was higher than shown, youd have reason to complain. Prudential had accepted that 
the price quoted was incorrect. Mr B had shown how that had led to a difference in 
the number of units he was able to procure through the switch and hed asked to be 
compensated for the lost value. 
He recognised the request for a refund of fees during the period of the problem may 
seem excessive, given the amount requested. But that just reflected what hed paid. 
He said fair compensation for the errors, inconvenience and stress caused should 
take into account the duration of the errors, the level of fees paid for the service 
provided and the gravity of the errors, given that it was his pension fund that was 
affected. 
The investigator told Mr B and Prudential that the complaint would be referred to an 
ombudsman. I understand that Prudential are looking into the further issues which Mr B 
mentioned when responding to the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings and which Ive summarised above. 
Ive made some further comments below. Im not going to comment on everything, just what 
I see as key. 
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr B has experienced multiple problems with 
Prudentials online portal following the system upgrades. I understand why Mr B has shared 
with us the more recent problems hes had. I dont want to comment on those matters 
directly as they dont form part of this complaint. But it will only have added to Mr Bs 
disappointment and frustration if things still arent going smoothly.  
The investigator split Mr Bs complaint into two main areas: forward priced investments and 
the delays in fund switches being shown online. 
On the first issue, there was a problem with one particular forward priced fund. Mr B 
understands how forward pricing works and that the unit price that will actually apply to the 
transaction isnt available prior to the switch. Forward priced funds are priced once per day 
after the close of the market based on the end of each days net asset value (NAV). The unit 
price used in a switch is the one thats been declared (by the fund managers) for the 
effective date the instruction has been received. But that wont be known at the time the 
instruction to buy or sell is given. Cut off times may also mean that the next business days 
forward price is used instead.
Mr B noted an error in the information he was able to view online. Before the changes to the 
online portal, the valuation date for all his funds wasnt the same but afterwards it was. That 
meant, for the forward priced fund, the wrong valuation date was shown online. It shouldve 
been a day earlier. Prudential accepted in March 2022 what Mr B was saying and that the 
online portal was showing incorrect information. I think Mr B accepts Prudential has now  
since about August 2022  corrected the issue.  
On the second matter, I can see that the delays between some switch requests and them 
being actioned has caused Mr B significant problems. Prudential has accepted that it hasnt been possible to keep the policy up to date at all times so thered have been times where the 
policy and what was shown online wont have been the same and accurate. Its clear Mr B 
looks to rebalance his pension portfolio regularly and he makes frequent fund switches. 
Prices move on a daily basis so if the switches arent actioned promptly and are queued that 
creates difficulties and has sometimes resulted in duplicate fund switch requests with 
reversals then becoming necessary which will have caused confusion and tracking 
difficulties. 
Checking whats happened and if all Mr Bs switch instructions have been carried out, 
including any necessary reversals, has turned out to be a large task. From what Ive seen, 
Prudential has undertaken detailed investigations and reconciliations. And Mr B has kept his 
own records. As far as Im aware, he accepts that all of his fund switches and any necessary 
reversals have been correctly actioned  aside from any issues arising from the more 
recently reported errors. 
Against that background Ive focused on what I see as the outstanding issue for Mr B  what 
would be fair compensation for Prudentials shortcomings. Mr Bs position is that hes 
suffered financial loss in consequence of errors made by Prudential. And he views the sum 
suggested as compensation for distress and inconvenience as inadequate. He also wants 
Prudentials charges to be reimbursed. 
Ive considered first Mr Bs claim for financial loss. My understanding is that its based on the 
incorrect valuations reported for the forward priced fund. Mr Bs position is that he made 
decisions about switches in and out of the fund based on the only data available to him and 
which quoted an incorrect price/date. Hes calculated the cumulative loss from the incorrectly 
quoted pricing on his fund holdings since December 2020 as Ive set out above (£2,968 on 
investments and £2,970 on disinvestments, so £5,938 in total). 
Ive thought about what Mr B has said very carefully but Im unable to agree hes suffered 
those losses as a result of the pricing discrepancy. First, when Mr Bs instructions for fund 
switches were actioned, the correct price was used  the unit price declared for the 
applicable date and which wouldnt have been known when the request to switch was 
placed. On that basis, Mr Bs switch instructions have been processed correctly and his fund 
will reflect the correct values so hes suffered no financial loss. 
Ive considered Mr Bs analogies but I dont think the situation is the same or that its simply 
a contractual matter. As Ive said, and as Mr B accepts, the price at which the buy or sell 
transaction is settled wont be known in advance. So it isnt as if hed bought something in a 
shop where the price was incorrectly shown or he was charged a different price from the 
marked price or not given a discount that he was expecting. 
Further, I think Mr Bs financial loss claim is based on the number of units he couldve 
bought/sold if the pricing information shown had been correct. But our usual approach to 
compensation is to try to put the complainant in the position theyd be in if things had been 
dealt with correctly. So we wouldnt usually make an award which, in effect, treats any 
incorrect information thats been given as if it had been correct.  
 
I know Mr Bs position is that he made his decisions  whether to buy or sell units in the 
particular fund  based on the information available to him and which wasnt correct/ up to 
date. To uphold a claim for financial loss based on incorrect information having been given, 
Id need to be satisfied that Mr B relied on the incorrect information to his detriment  that 
hed have made different decisions if hed been given the correct information and that the 
outcome wouldve been that hed have been better off. As its not possible to say, after the 
event, with certainty what wouldve happened, I decide those questions on the balance of 
probabilities, that is what I consider is likely to have happened. But here my starting point is that its difficult to say Mr B relied on the incorrect information 
when it seems he was aware, for most of the time at least, that the pricing was wrong. 
Prudential confirmed in March 2022 that there was a discrepancy. Mr B says hed been 
saying that for over a year. Even if it took him a while to persuade Prudential there was an 
issue, the fact is that Mr B seems to have recognised that himself but he continued to 
instruct fund switches. 
I accept that his fund was with Prudential and so effectively he had no choice. If he wanted 
to make changes to limit his exposure to market volatility or switch to what he hoped would 
be better performing funds that meant switching his Prudential funds. But if he knew there 
was a pricing discrepancy then hed also have known that he couldnt rely fully on the 
price/date quoted. And it was his decision to switch, knowing the price wasnt as quoted. 
I understand what Mr B says about how, in ordinary circumstances, the price would be 
adjusted anyway to reflect trading the following day and he could make a rough estimation 
about that. But, because the quoted price was a day out, hed need to first correct that price 
before looking at movements for the following day and making an assumption as to the unit 
price that would actually apply based on that. But its still the case that, if Mr B did know 
there was a pricing discrepancy, he knew hed need to undertake that further analysis before 
making a decision to buy or sell units. I agree he shouldnt have had to do that and he 
shouldve been able to rely on the information Prudential provided. But if Mr B did know 
there was a discrepancy then its difficult to say he relied on the information.
   
Even if I could say hed relied on it Id also need to be satisfied that hed have made different 
investment decisions if the correct information had been shown. Looking at the unit price 
movements for the fund concerned I dont think thats an obvious conclusion. And, in any 
event, Mr B seems to have kept a very close eye on his account, so its not obvious that hed 
have made different decisions and over and above the switches he requested anyway to 
rebalance his portfolio. 
But I mention that largely in passing as I cant say Mr B relied on the incorrect pricing 
anyway. So I dont think its reasonable to award compensation for any financial loss 
suffered because the valuation/date was shown incorrectly.  
Although Mr Bs claim for financial loss, as hes set it out, relates to the forward priced fund, 
Ive also thought about if he suffered any financial loss because the online system didnt 
always show the correct and up to date position, taking into account all the fund switches 
that Mr B had requested. But again I think its very difficult to say there was any financial loss 
when Mr B was monitoring his account so closely and making further fund switch requests to 
adjust his holdings. 
I also bear in mind what Prudential has said about the frequency of Mr Bs fund switch 
requests being somewhat unusual with this type of pension. I agree that stakeholder plans 
are relatively unsophisticated pension arrangements, offering capped charges and a limited 
range of funds. I take Mr Bs point that he isnt operating the account other than in 
accordance with the terms and conditions but it seems that Prudentials systems arent set 
up to cope with the volume and frequency of fund switches that Mr B seeks to make. 
The upshot is that Im not making any award for financial loss. 
Ive gone on to consider the other elements of Mr Bs claim. Hes seeking £300 for his time 
and expenses in resolving the issue, based on an hourly rate of £50. In deciding what would 
be fair compensation we take into account time spent by the complainant in sorting out the mistake. We dont usually consider an hourly rate but well look at the overall impact a 
businesss mistake has had in considering what inconvenience has resulted. 
We give some information on our website about the levels of compensation that might be 
awarded and the factors we take into account. We say an award of over £750 and up to 
£1,500 could be fair where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused substantial 
distress, upset and worry and where the effect may have been felt over many months, 
sometimes over a year. 
I think £250 is fair and reasonable, taking into account the other amounts that Prudential had 
paid earlier totalling £950, and when the current issues might be viewed as a continuation of 
or linked to earlier problems, all arising from the updated online system. 
I dont think the claim for a further £1,000 is justified. I recognise that Mr Bs monitoring and 
analysis of his own account brought to light a serious issue, affecting not just his own 
account, but potentially other customers too. But that was the wider effect of Mr Bs time and 
efforts in respect of his own account for which an award is being made. As the investigator 
acknowledged, Mr B may feel, with some justification, that hes undertaken a lot of work 
himself which he shouldnt have had to and that his vigilance is the only reason his account 
has been corrected together with the wider issue affecting forward priced funds. But I think 
the compensation thats been paid, together with the further award, reflects that fairly. 
Mr B also made a claim in respect of unanswered complaints. I think Prudential has since 
covered off the relevant points but, in any event, this aspect of Mr Bs claim feels more like 
an attempt to fine Prudential for perceived failings and which isnt something we can do. 
That leaves Mr Bs claim for reimbursement of Prudentials fees of £10,788.13. The 
problems Mr B has experienced all relate to Prudentials online system and have arisen 
since it was updated. I can see the importance of that facility to Mr B and the use he makes 
of it. So I can understand why he might consider a refund is justified, given the multiple 
problems hes experienced. 
But it may not be fair and reasonable, where theres been a failing in respect of an aspect of 
the overall service that a business is being paid to provide, to say that all fees charged 
should be refunded, especially where the business appears to have tried hard to put things 
right. Mr B might say that its up to Prudential to carry out his legitimate instructions promptly. 
But again I take into account whats been said about the service that Prudential is able to 
offer for the product Mr B has. And, as the investigator pointed out, Prudentials charges 
incorporate other services and include any underlying fund charges. 
All in all I dont think, taking into account that significant problems did arise, that a refund of 
fees is justified or proportionate. So Im just making an award for £250 for distress and 
inconvenience. I realise Mr B is likely to be disappointed but I hope Ive been able to explain 
why Im unable to agree that the sums hes claimed should be awarded.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but only in part. The Prudential Assurance Company Limited must 
pay Mr B £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman