DRN-2926178
The complaint
A Company Ill refer to as P has complained about Society of Lloyd's. It isnt happy that 
Lloyds wouldnt pay its full claim under the Combined Insurance policy.
What happened
P was broken into and a large amount of stock was stolen from its premises. Lloyds looked 
into the claim and although they were satisfied that the claim was genuine, and that P had 
been the victim of a burglary Lloyds wouldnt meet the claim in full. This was because P 
hadnt undertaken regular stock takes and Lloyds offered around £9,000 when P felt the 
loss was over £30,000.
So P complained to this service. Our investigator looked into things and partly upheld the 
complaint. She looked at the evidence provided by P, including video footage from before 
and after the break-in, and suggested Lloyds should look at increasing payment to £21,500. 
As Lloyds didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this complaint. I say this as the 
detail and key issues are well known to both sides and the circumstances surrounding the 
claim are not in dispute. So I will focus on the settlement figure that Lloyds has offered and 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
This is a difficult case to decide and although I can understand Lloyds position, I think its 
offer of around £9,000 is too low in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Although I accept that there isnt enough information for P to fully evidence its position I think 
there is sufficient evidence to say that Lloyds should pay more than it has agreed to date. P 
isnt a sophisticated business and has a very simple business model so it doesnt undertake 
the usual stock take that I would expect to see which is unfortunate. But P has provided 
video footage from before and after the theft which clearly shows, on balance, that a lot more 
stock was taken than Lloyds has paid out for. Indeed, there is corroboration of this from the 
broker who put things forward for P and frequents the shop. 
Given this, and the large number of invoices that P has provided which show regular 
purchases of many of the items that were stolen, I think the amount should be uplifted. I 
know P has proposed the loss of stock was around £30,000 but again I dont think this can 
be shown (given the lack of regular stock takes). Our investigator has gone through the 
account information and data provided and suggested an approximate loss of £21,500. I 
know Lloyds has disputed this as they feel that the figure should be less given the stock 
taking issues and lack of evidence. But a figure of less than a third of the amount proposed 
by P just doesnt feel fair.
Furthermore, I think Lloyds should have looked to pay P the initial figure far earlier in the 
process and I think this caused P a fair degree of delay and inconvenience at a particularly 
difficult time. I dont propose to go over this now or provide any compensation as I accept 
that the investigators proposed settlement figure is far from exact. But overall I think this is 
the fairest figure that has been advanced in the circumstances of this case.
So, although I understand Lloyds position, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do in the 
particular circumstances of this case is for Lloyds to pay the settlement figure outlined by 
our investigator. 
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of 
Lloyd's to pay P £21,500 to settle the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman