DRN-3697071
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her for transactions she 
says she didnt make or authorise totalling just over £5,000. 
What happened
Miss K has an account with Barclays. Between 9 and 12 February 2022, a series of 
transactions were made to a company that buys and sells cryptocurrencies, which I will call 
M. The transactions were made using Barclays Mobile Banking app (BMB), which was linked 
to Miss Ks current account.
The transactions were funded by six transfers of just over £7,000 which were made into 
Miss Ks Barclays account from an account she held with another bank, which I will refer to 
as L. The transfers were made into Miss Ks Barclays account on 9, 11 and 14 February 
2022.
On 12 February 2022, Miss K told Barclays that she hadnt made any of the payments to M. 
And that she didnt have an account with M. She explained that she couldnt have made the 
transactions because she was working at the time and didnt have access to her mobile 
phone, which she says was in her bag. 
Miss K says that when she called Barclays to report the matter, the bank told her a different 
mobile phone number had been used to make the disputed transactions. Shes unhappy that   
the bank hadnt sent her any notifications about the transactions that might have alerted her 
to the fraud taking place.
 
Miss K has also explained that she didnt make the transfers from her bank account with L, 
which funded the disputed transactions. So, she believes someone had managed to get hold 
of her all her account information to use.
Barclays looked into Miss Ks fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed 
transactions. In summary the bank said:
The IP address used to make the disputed transactions matched undisputed 
transactions Miss K had made and was still being used up to May 2022
The transactions were authenticated via a notification in BMB that was confirmed 
using Miss Ks registered mobile banking device and usual IP address
The device ID used for BMB has been the same since September 2021
There were undisputed payments in between the disputed transactions
Miss K denied any knowledge of M. But evidence showed an account was opened 
using Miss Ks driving licence and a photograph of herself
Miss K wasnt happy with the banks response. She maintains she never made the 
transactions. And that someone else has managed to obtain her account information to carry 
out the payments.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks complaint. He asked Miss K some more 
questions about what had happened. Miss K explained that she didnt have access to her 
mobile phone at the time the disputed transactions were made because she was at work. 
She says she also reported the matter to L as she said she didnt make the transfers out of 
the account she had with L. But she wasnt able to provide any evidence to support this. 
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. He said the IP address and device used to 
access BMB had been regularly used by Miss K and was still being used up to May 2022. 
He also said that the evidence showed Miss K had set up an account with M. And that there 
were undisputed payments in between the disputed transactions. So, he said Miss K had 
most likely authorised the disputed transactions.
 
Miss K disagreed with what the investigator said. She said she didnt carry out the 
transactions and Barclays should have been checking her account and stopped the 
transactions from being made. She explained that because of the transactions her mental 
health had suffered.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. Generally speaking, if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss K authorised the payments, Barclays is 
entitled to hold her liable for the disputed transactions. The relevant regulations, to this 
effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Having looked at all the evidence, which includes the technical evidence provided by 
Barclays, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to have concluded that Miss K 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Mrs Ks BMB was logged into shortly before the disputed transactions on 10 ,11 and 
12 February 2022. Logging into this requires a five digit passcode which customers 
create themselves when registering for BMB. Miss K says she hasnt disclosed this to 
anyone.
Miss K has said that she hadnt lost her mobile phone and it hadnt been stolen. And 
the mobile phone required a PIN to unlock it, which Miss K says wasnt disclosed to 
anyone. So, theres no reasonable explanation for how an unknown third party would 
be able to gain access to Miss Ks BMB app via her mobile phone to carry out the 
disputed transactions.
The records show that Miss Ks registered mobile phone was used for the logins to 
make the disputed transactions. And theres no evidence that the mobile phone 
device was changed as Miss K has suggested.
The IP address used to make all the disputed transactions was one which had 
consistently been used for previous logins before the disputed transactions  and 
which continued to be used for logins after the disputed transactions to make 
undisputed transactionsThere were no failed attempts to log into the BMB app either before or after the 
disputed transactions
The investigator also spoke to Miss Ks former employer who confirmed that Miss K 
would have been required to have her mobile phone on her person whilst at work. 
The technical evidence also shows that the majority of the transactions were made 
outside the times Miss K said she was at work (9am  2pm).
The disputed transactions took place over four days at various times. This would 
mean a third party would have had to take and replace Miss Ks mobile phone 
without being noticed over several days and at different times. I dont think that an 
unknown third party would risk taking Miss Ks mobile phone, replacing it, taking it 
again, completing further transactions and then returning it. This back and forth 
wouldve created an unnecessary risk of alerting Miss K that fraudulent transactions 
were taking place. Its more typical for the account to be used as quickly and for as 
much as possible. But this didnt happen.
Each of the disputed transactions went through an additional layer of security to 
authenticate the payments. In this case a message was sent to confirm the payment 
as genuine. The technical evidence shows that each payment was confirmed, using 
an IP address that has over 100 matches on Miss Ks BMB login details. In addition, 
the device ID used was Miss Ks registered mobile phone which was registered on 
1 September 2021. Therefore, there is no evidence of any other third-party device 
access or registrations.
The disputed transactions were made to a cryptocurrency company, M, which 
requires customers to set up an account to purchase cryptocurrencies. As part of its 
account opening procedures customers have to provide a photograph of themselves 
along with photo identification. Ive been provided with evidence obtained from M 
which shows Miss K set up an account with it and provided her driving licence and a 
photograph of herself. So, Im satisfied that Miss K is aware of M and did set up an 
account  contrary to what shes told us.
It doesnt seem likely to me that anyone would defraud Miss K like this if ultimately 
any money went back to her (via M) and the thief didnt make any profit. And had no 
way of accessing the funds. 
The disputed transactions reduced Miss Ks account balance and I can see that she 
logged into BMB and checked her balance during this period. I think she wouldve 
noticed the transactions much sooner than shes said she did as her account balance 
was reducing. So, I think if she hadnt authorised them, she wouldve raised this with 
the bank at the time. But she didnt alert Barclays until after the last disputed 
transaction was made.
Despite being asked by the investigator Miss K hasnt provided any evidence that 
she reported fraudulent activity to L. I also find it quite unusual that a fraudster would 
go to the trouble of accessing Miss Ks other bank account and move money from it 
over a number of days, to another of her accounts in order to then make a number of 
payments to M. Usually a fraudster will try and maximise the usage of an account in order to get the greatest benefit from the account before the account holder notices 
their funds are missing and the card is cancelled. But this didnt happen. 
I recognise that Miss K has said that she didnt authorise the payments. But based on the 
evidence Ive looked at I cant see how an unknown fraudulent third party could have 
obtained all of Miss Ks security information and device and be in Miss Ks normal location 
with all of these while making the payments. When I weigh everything up, on balance, the 
most likely explanation here is that Miss K made the disputed transactions herself.  So, in 
the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Barclays to refund Miss K the disputed 
transactions. 
Finally, Miss K has said that  Barclays should have spotted the transactions and stopped 
them from going through. So, the banks at fault. But Im firstly not satisfied that the 
transactions were necessarily that unusual for Barclays to have queried them. They were 
done after logging in using Miss Ks most often used IP address and using her BMB login 
and codes, using her registered phone, and using details taken from her genuine card. So, I 
dont consider there were any obvious reasons for Barclays to suspect these transactions 
might not be genuine. And I cant decide she didnt authorise them just because Barclays 
didnt block the payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in my view connects Miss K 
to the disputed transactions. And Ive set this out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman