DRN-3878924
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) unfairly refused two potential 
claims for Mr B, and that BUPA mis-sold the policy originally. 
What happened
Mr and Ms B hold a private medical policy with BUPA, which provides private medical care 
for qualifying conditions. They took the policy out in 2020 on a moratorium basis, which 
means they cant make a claim for treatment for a condition that pre-dated the start date of 
the policy and for which theyd known about or had treatment for within the previous 5 years.
In 2022 Mr B contacted BUPA about two conditions. Hed spoken to a BUPA provided GP 
about a foot condition, and the GP had suggested he contact BUPA about claiming for 
diagnostic tests. When Mr B described the condition, he said he had recurring calluses. The 
member of staff from BUPA explained that conditions deemed to fall within normal footcare 
werent covered by the policy  and this included calluses. 
Mr B also said he wanted some diagnostic procedures for a back complaint. The member of 
staff asked him how long hed had the problem and he said years, but that hed never had 
treatment. Mr B was asked to provide confirmation from his GP that he hadnt had any 
treatment. Mr B didnt want to do that as hed have to pay for this confirmation  he thought 
about £40. The member of staff said that without this, she couldnt progress a claim for him.
Mr and Ms B complained about both of these issues, saying additionally that as it appeared 
to be BUPAs default position to decline any claim without proper investigation the policy was 
mis-sold to them in the first place.
BUPA didnt change its position, so Mr and Ms B asked us to review their complaint.
Our investigator looked at what had been said to Mr B when he called BUPA, but didnt think 
BUPA had done much, if anything, wrong. She noted that BUPA had responded to the 
information Mr B provided when deciding if it could consider a claim, and thought that was 
fair. She also reviewed the sale of the policy, but didnt think it had been mis-sold originally.
Mr and Ms B dont agree with this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
expand a little on how Ive reached this decision.
The complaint covers two main areas  the way BUPA dealt with the claims Mr B wanted to 
make, and the complaint about the policy being mis-sold. Ill comment on these separately.
The claims
Ive listened carefully to phone calls about the claim. In his call, Mr B said he had a referral 
for podiatry and described his foot condition as recurrent calluses and said the BUPA 
provided practitioner had suggested he contact BUPA about this. The member of staff 
explained that the policy didnt cover things deemed to be part of normal footcare and 
quoted a list of excluded conditions  which including calluses. From what I heard Mr B 
seemed to accept this reasonably well. He didnt mention that his request was for diagnostic 
tests so I cant say what BUPAs response would have been in those circumstances.
Mr B then explained that he had a back problem and wanted to get it checked out in case it 
was something serious. When asked, he said hed had symptoms for years  but never had 
treatment. The member of staff asked that Mr B provide some evidence that this was the 
case, and Mr B explained that when he relocated to the UK from Australia his medical 
records had disappeared. He didnt say when that was, but the member of staff asked that 
he get a statement from his UK GP confirming that hed not had any treatment. Mr B 
objected to that as he didnt think he ought to have to pay for that. The member of staff said 
it was unfortunately the case. After this Mr B complained about the process, but was careful 
to say he wasnt complaining about the member of staff.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. I can see that they say theres no cover for 
chronic conditions  and I think its reasonable that recurrent calluses would fall into this 
category. I appreciate that Mr B later consulted his own GP who said there might be a 
number of reasons for his foot condition and more tests were needed  but I cant see that 
Mr B ever told BUPA about this. I think its fair for BUPA to rely on the information its given 
when saying if it will consider a claim, so I cant say it did anything wrong here. 
Turning to Mr Bs back problem, Ive checked the terms and conditions to see what they say 
about moratoriums. In the section about claiming General information about claiming it 
says that all claims where the policy is provided on a moratorium basis will need a pre-
treatment form to be completed  and that it will have to include information from a GP or 
consultant. It says that if a fee is charged, BUPA does not pay for this. That reflects what Mr 
B was told when he called, so I cant say the member of staff gave him the wrong 
information  or that this wasnt a fair thing for BUPA to request. This type of clause is 
present in most similar policies sold by the insurance industry, so I cant say Mr B was 
disadvantaged. 
The sale
Mr and Ms B say that as BUPA must have a policy of refusing to meet claims without 
investigating properly then the policy was mis-sold. Ive already said above that I dont think 
BUPA refused to progress Mr Bs claims unfairly, so I dont accept BUPA has a policy of 
refusing to meet claims in this way. 
I have looked at the sales process BUPA used when Mr and Ms B bought the policy. Im 
satisfied that it wasnt an advised sale  so BUPA didnt have to check Mr and Ms Bs 
particular circumstances and say whether the policy would suit them. Instead it had to 
provide sufficient clear information so that Mr and Ms B could decide for themselves. Mr and 
Ms B have confirmed they knew the policy was sold on a moratorium basis and that there 
was no cover for pre-existing conditions for a period of time. So I think its fair to conclude 
that this was explained to them clearly. And I also think the policy does say clearly that 
BUPA wouldnt pay for the GP fees to confirm there had been no treatment for the condition 
being claimed for.
Im also satisfied that the policy was clear that there was no cover for chronic conditions and 
Mr Bs foot problem did appear to fall within this category.Overall, Im satisfied this policy wasnt mis-sold.
 Mr B could have gone back to BUPA with a referral from his own GP about his foot problem 
 but it doesnt seem he did that. And he could have paid the fee for his GP to confirm hed 
not had treatment for his back, but doesnt seem to have done that either. Without Mr B 
providing the information he had or that BUPA had requested, I wouldnt expect it to do more 
than it did.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman