DRN-2928826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy Black Horse Limited declined a claim they made under section 75
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
They say some windows they acquired using a fixed sum loan have developed faults.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F acquired some new replacement UPVC windows, frames and a door for their
house in around September 1994, that were provided by a local company Ill refer to as V.
The cash price of the complete installation was £3,600. Mr and Mrs F paid a £2,400 deposit,
and the remaining balance was financed by a fixed sum loan provided by Black Horse. The
account was paid off at the end of 1995.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs F contacted Black Horse about the windows saying they had
developed faults over the past couple of years. They said the frames had warped which was
causing drafts and noise. And they thought this was a security issue. Mr and Mrs F
explained theyd tried to get in touch with V, but it had gone out of business. They asked
Black Horse to replace the windows to resolve the complaint as they had a lifetime
guarantee from V.
Black Horse issued its final response in July 2020. It explained it had reviewed what
Mr and Mrs F had sent it in relation to the claim, including what they said was a lifetime
guarantee.
Black Horse said it was declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim under S75. It said it was responsible
for the quality of goods when they were supplied, but as they had been in place for 26 years
it wasnt going to offer a refund or replacement.
Black Horse also said that it thought the guarantee that was provided did not form part of the
credit agreement and was a separate contract between Mr and Mrs F and V.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to our service.
They said the window frames have warped to the point they do not seal and let draughts into
the house. They said the windows were a security risk and the issues had recently become
much more noticeable. Mr and Mrs F said they thought Black Horse should be liable to put
the windows back in order.
Our investigator began to look into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. He issued an opinion
explaining he didnt think Black Horse had done anything wrong by declining Mr and Mrs Fs
S75 claim. He said, in summary, that he thought the windows were of satisfactory quality at
the point of supply. He also said he thought that the guarantee Mr and Mrs F had referenced
was a separate contract and wasnt part of the loan agreement. So, he thought the
guarantee wasnt part of the contract between Black Horse and Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy. They said Black Horse wouldve been aware of the
guarantee. They said the windows had an intrinsic design fault that meant they were not fit
for purpose. And they sent in an advert which they said showed a link between V and Black
Horse.
Our investigator said hed reviewed what Mr and Mrs F had said and looked at the advert,
but this didnt change his mind.
The case was passed to me to decide. I asked Mr and Mrs F to send in
any further evidence they had to show the faults with the windows. They responded with
some further testimony and photos.
I sent Mr and Mrs F a provisional decision on 14 June 2021. The findings from this decision 
were as follows:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and
regulations. S75 is relevant to this complaint. This explains, under certain circumstances,
that a borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit
provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs F acquired the windows and doors using a fixed sum loan. The value of the
goods supplied was £3,600 and Im satisfied having looked at the documents provided that
the windows and door were supplied under a single contract for one price. This means the
goods fall within the financial limits for a S75 claim. So, Im satisfied both the type of
borrowing and amount mean Mr and Mrs F had a valid S75 claim.
Ive also considered whether there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain here. I
can see the credit agreement from Black Horse is in Mr and Mrs Fs name. Mr and Mrs Fs
name is also on the documents they provided from V. And I can see the windows were
installed at Mr and Mrs Fs address. So, Im satisfied a valid DCS link exists in this case.
What I need to consider here is whether Black Horse handled Mr and Mrs Fs S75 claim
fairly. Ill consider whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. The
Sale of Goods Act 1979 implied a term in the contract for the supply of the goods that they
needed to be of satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent, then I may consider this
to be a breach of contract.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said about the windows and had in mind
what Mr F said about his profession. On balance, I think its most likely the current issues
with the windows are present, based on what Mr and Mrs F told us  they have been
consistent with what theyve said here and I find their testimony persuasive.
But, I need to consider that it appears the windows and frames lasted for around 25 years
before Mr and Mrs F say they developed a fault. There is a lack of evidence here, for
instance an independent report, to back up what Mr and Mrs F said about the frames having
a design fault at the point of supply.
I have carefully considered the photos Mr and Mrs F have provided. I note they say Mr F has
attempted a fix himself on the windows. And I appreciate it may be difficult to take photos to
show the issues they mention  particularly if the gaps are relatively small and have
improved by what Mr F did. But I cant see clearly that the issues are present in the photos
provided. It follows that I cant see evidence there was a fault or defect present from when
the windows were installed.
Ive looked into the average lifespan of UPVC windows and frames. There is some
difference of opinion here, and I need to consider that most available information is aboutmodern UPVC windows and frames  not ones installed at the time Mr and Mrs Fs were. I
need to consider that its possible, due to modern standards and technology, that recent
frames and windows may be expected to last longer. But that being said, it appears most
sources say UPVC frames and windows are expected to last between 20-35 years.
So, it appears Mr and Mrs Fs windows lasted about the amount of time I would expect. Ive
also considered that over a period of around 25 years, there could be external factors that
couldve affected the windows and frames  for instance subsidence, heave, foundation
damage, building work, cleaning and maintenance etc.
Thinking about all of this, I think its most likely on balance that had there been an issue with
the windows and frames when they were supplied this wouldve appeared earlier than the
problems Mr and Mrs F told us about. It follows that I think its most likely the windows and
frames have developed issues due to another external reason, or simply due to general
wear and tear. So, I think its most likely they were of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive then gone on to consider the guarantee that Mr and Mrs F told us about. Black Horse,
and our investigator, felt this was not something that Black Horse are responsible for. But, I
disagree on this point. I appreciate this guarantee wasnt part of the credit agreement as
pointed out by Black Horse. But, I do think this formed part of the agreement between V and
Mr and Mrs F for the supply of the windows. So, Ill consider if I think Black Horse need to
take any further action here.
Ive considered what the guarantee says. In part, this explains:
(V) guarantees that all materials used in your installation are fit for their purpose
and will remain without defect for the duration of the product guarantee
UPVC frames are covered by a lifetime guarantee to be fit for the purpose purchased.
Abrasives or scouring powders should never be used. A mild detergent should be used twice
a year
Ive thought very carefully about this. But I think there is some lack of clarity here about the
guarantee.
Ive considered that there isnt a definition of lifetime set out here. There are different things
this could apply to  for instance, Mr or Mrs Fs lifetime, the companys lifetime or a
reasonable lifetime for the windows. Ive thought very carefully about this. But, I dont think
its likely it was intended that the guarantee would cover the windows and frames forever.
So, I dont think its reasonable to assume what Mr and Mrs F provided was an endless
guarantee that would cover replacement windows after 25 years.
It also isnt clear what the purpose purchased is here. Assuming the purpose purchased is
for windows and frames to last a reasonable amount of time, then I think this has likely been
met in this case.
So, thinking about whats fair and reasonable here, I dont think on balance in this particular
case that the guarantee covers Mr and Mrs Fs windows beyond the expected lifespan of the
product. As I explained earlier, Im satisfied the windows have lasted for a reasonable
amount of time. It follows that I dont think Black Horse did anything wrong when it declined
to reimburse or repair Mr and Mrs Fs windows under S75.
I realise this isnt clear cut. But, even if I was to take a different interpretation of the
guarantee, I still wouldnt think Black Horse should take any further action. I say this because
the guarantee states it covers a defect. But, as I previously explained, I havent seenenough to make me think its most likely the issues Mr and Mrs F now have with the
windows are due to a defect rather than being caused by other external factors or simply due
to wear and tear.
I also havent seen any evidence that mild detergent has been used on all the frames twice a
year since they were installed. And I havent seen any evidence abrasives or scouring
powders havent been used. From whats set out above, it seems both of these things would
invalidate any claim under the guarantee.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied that, even if I thought this guarantee was still in place,
I dont think Mr and Mrs F couldve most likely successfully claimed on it. So, I still dont think
Black Horse needs to take any action here.
Ive considered everything else on the case and all other comments and evidence from
Mr and Mrs F. But, I dont think there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
So, I dont think Black Horse did anything wrong when it declined Mr and Mrs Fs claim
under S75.
I gave all parties one month to come back with any further comments or information.
Black Horse didnt respond.
Mr and Mrs F came back to me with some further comments to consider. And they provided 
some more photos and some letters to V from 1994.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think this complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs F said in response to my provisional 
decision. Where I havent responded to a specific point raised or addressed something in 
detail this doesnt mean I havent thought about whats been said  this just reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Mr and Mrs F said due to the size of the windows it had been suggested to them that they 
have been more suspectable to stress, and they thought the installation shouldve been 
reinforced. And they said they thought the hinges were of too poor quality to support the 
weight of the large windows. Ive thought about this along with everything else they said 
about the windows and what they said happened when they were installed. But I still think 
that had the windows and frames been installed incorrectly or had a defect at the point of 
supply, the issues wouldve become apparent sooner than they did.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs F said about the guarantee. I appreciate 
their point that V couldve made things clearer at the time. But, having thought about 
everything again, I dont agree this means in this specific case that the guarantee should 
have no time limit. Ive considered that Mr and Mrs F believe lifetime to mean the lifetime of 
the purchaser for as long as they own the property. But, this is not what the guarantee says. 
Having thought about the guarantee again, along with all of Mr and Mrs Fs comments, I still 
dont think it would be reasonable to hold Black Horse liable for issues with the windows 
beyond the expected lifetime of the product.Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs F said about the maintenance of the windows and 
frames and that they dont believe any of the external factors mentioned in my provisional 
decision couldve led to the issues with the windows. But, I still havent seen enough to make 
me think its most likely the current issues are due to a fault from the time of installation 
rather than another external reason or just general wear and tear.
Ive considered the additional photos Mr and Mrs F sent in. Id firstly like to thank them for 
taking the time to provide these. The photos do show the issues in more detail, and I can 
see what appears a be gap of a few millimetres between window seals and the frames in 
several of the photos. 
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, I accepted these issues were most likely to be 
present based on what Mr and Mrs F said about them. The key thing to consider is why 
these issues are present. Having considered them carefully, the photos dont make me think 
its most likely these issues are present due to a defect or issue with the frames or windows 
that was present at the point of supply.
Ive also considered the letters Mr and Mrs F provided that appear were sent to V. These 
mention some remedial work that needed doing to the installation around the point of supply. 
But the letters dont mention issues with the frames, gaps or other related problems. So, 
these dont change my opinion.
Ive carefully thought about all of the information and evidence on the case again, along with 
all of Mr and Mrs Fs further comments. But, I still dont think there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. It follows that I still dont think Black Horse did anything wrong 
when it declined Mr and Mrs Fs S75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman