DRN-1361309
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NVs administration of 
her personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D held a personal accident insurance policy which also covered her husband, Mr D. The 
policy renewed in April each year. The premium was paid by a monthly direct debit.
In August 2018, Mrs D decided she no longer wanted it and so she cancelled the policy. 
However, a short time later, she changed her mind. She contacted CIGNA and it agreed to 
reinstate the policy. However, it failed to carry out the reinstatement.
In May 2019, Mrs D noted that the policy apparently hadnt been reinstated. She contacted 
CIGNA. It apologised for its error. It agreed to reinstate the policy and to backdate this to 
August 2018. It also agreed to waive Mrs Ds premiums from the time the policy was 
cancelled until the renewal in April 2019. It told Mrs D that it could only offer cover until 
August 2019 because it had made the commercial decision to withdraw from this particular 
insurance market.
CIGNA wrote to Mrs D on 21 May 2019 to confirm its actions. However, Mr D was no longer 
eligible for the policy because he had turned 85 years old. Unfortunately, when CIGNA wrote 
to Mrs D, instead of referencing this, it said that it understood Mr D had died and expressed 
its condolences. It said it could offer Mrs D cover until April 2020.
Mrs D contacted CIGNA. It wrote to her again on 28 May 2019 apologising for the errors in 
its earlier letter and confirming the real reason why Mr D had been taken off the policy. It 
said that it was applying a 10% discount to Mrs Ds premiums.
Mrs D complained to CIGNA. It issued a final response letter on 13 June 2018 in which it 
reiterated what it had said in its letter of 28 May 2018. It also said that, even though it had 
sent renewal documents indicating that it would provide cover for Mrs D until April 2020, the 
cover would in fact end on August 2019 because it was withdrawing from the market. It 
offered £50 compensation for any upset caused to Mrs D by its poor service.
Mrs D was unhappy at CIGNAs offer. She referred her complaint to us.
In October 2019, while her complaint was under investigation by us, Mrs D received another 
letter from CIGNA which this time said that her cover would remain in place until the end of 
the policy year in April 2020 but that it couldnt be renewed thereafter because CIGNA was 
withdrawing from the personal accident insurance market. CIGNA later confirmed to our 
investigator that this information was correct.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
CIGNA was entitled to make the commercial decision to stop offering the policy. However, 
she considered that CIGNA had made a succession of errors which had caused Mrs D a lot 
of trouble and some distress. She considered it should pay a further £250 on top of the £50 it 
had previously offered, to make a total compensation payment of £300.
Mrs D accepted the investigators findings but CIGNA did not. It considered that it had 
offered appropriate compensation, including the waiving of the premium for a period of time 
and the allowance of a discount, and that the proposed amount of £300 was excessive.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIGNA has made a succession of errors in its administration of Mrs Ds policy. It failed to 
reinstate the policy after assuring her it would do so in August 2018. When it eventually did 
reinstate the policy, it sent a letter stating that her husband had died, and containing other 
inaccuracies. When she complained, it sent a final response letter apologising for its errors 
and offering £50 compensation but also confirming that, contrary to what her renewal 
documents said, her cover would end in August 2019. It then sent a later letter which 
showed this to be wrong and that in fact she would be covered until April 2020.
I recognise that CIGNA waived the premiums for the period between August 2018 and April 
2019, and that it has also applied a 10% discount to Mrs Ds premiums. However, I still 
consider the £50 compensation it has offered is too little bearing in mind the numerous 
errors it has made. I consider these errors will have caused Mrs D ongoing trouble and, by 
referring wrongly to her husbands death, some upset. I consider it should offer a further 
£250 compensation to bring the total compensation payment to £300.
CIGNA eventually confirmed to Mrs D that it was withdrawing from the market and so it 
would not be able to renew her cover at the end of her policy year in April 2020. Im satisfied 
that this is fair. CIGNA is entitled to take the commercial decision not to offer the policy. This 
decision affected all policyholders and wasnt specific to Mrs D.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV to pay Mrs D a total of £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman