DRN-2747179
The complaint
Mr C complains that Premium Credit Limited didnt try and take a payment out of his account
despite telling him it did. Mr C is represented by his sister.
What happened
Mr C says he had an insurance policy that was funded by an agreement with Premium
Credit. There was a missed payment in January 2020 which was due to be re-taken on 7
February 2020 as well as a missed payment charge of £27.50. Mr C says that Premium
Credit took the late payment fee but did not ask his bank for the actual payment. He says
that his insurance policy was cancelled, and his bank confirmed that the late payment fee
was the only payment request made. And he says he had enough money in the account to
make the payment.
Premium Credit says the agreement was taken out in November 2019 and Mr C agreed to
pay £24.04 a month by direct debit. It says the agreement made clear that a failure to pay
the monthly premium is a breach of contract and may result in the agreement be terminated.
And says its not responsible for the cancellation of the insurance policy or the date of it.
Premium Credit says it did try and take both payments and told Mr C he needed to make a
payment.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator
didnt think there was any evidence that Premium Credit had asked Mr Cs bank for the
payment of £24.04. And thought had it been asked for, then Mr C would have been up to
date for his payments and the account should not have been defaulted. The investigator
thought there should have been at least two missed payments before Premium Credit took
action and the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) suggested an account should be in
three months arrears before it should be defaulted. The investigator didnt think Premium
Credit had offered Mr C any support and recommended the balance of the policy should be
written off (£211.36) and that Premium Credit should pay £200 compensation.
Premium Credit doesnt accept that view and provided evidence that a request was made for
the full amount which included both required payments.
The investigator reconsidered his view but came to the same overall view.
Mr C accepts the investigators view.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came to the provisional view that I didnt 
uphold this account for the reasons I explained
I listened to the call between Premium Credit and Mr Cs sister and I was satisfied that
she made clear what the complaint issue was- that Premium Credit did not ask Mr Cs bank
for the two payments and that the bank made clear only one payment had been requested.
I looked at the original credit agreement which I could see Mr C agreed to in 2019. That
agreement made clear that a breach of the terms and conditions by a failure to pay, may
result in the agreement being ended. I was satisfied Mr C was required to pay £24.04 a 
month but on 27 January 2020 the direct debit request was rejected by his bank. I thought it 
could be argued at that stage the agreement was potentially breached but, in any event, 
Premium Credit agreed to take the payment again on 7 February 2020.
I could see on 28 January 2020 Premium Credit wrote to Mr C and told him it would try and
take the payment again and made clear there was a risk of the agreement ending. So, I 
thought Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware of the importance of making sure that 
payment was made and that it was his responsibility to pay the premiums. I appreciated Mr 
C says there was enough money in his account on 7 February 2020 to pay both the charge 
and the monthly payment. I made clear that I had not seen evidence of that and would have 
thought Mr C would have provided us that evidence.
I looked at Premium Credits records and was satisfied it did ask Mr Cs bank for the
monthly payment and the charge. And I was satisfied that it has provided a record of the
payment request of £24.04 being rejected by Mr Cs bank. I said I thought that was the key 
part of this complaint and having looked at the evidence provided by Premium Credit, I didnt 
think it made a mistake or acted unfairly on this point and I didnt think it had any control over 
Mr Cs banks decision to reject the payment.
I didnt think Premium Credit would have any say over which payment request was
processed first and, in any event, said that if Mr C was correct about having enough money 
in his account for both payments, then I thought his bank should explain why it rejected the 
payment request.
I appreciated that the investigator questions why the agreement was cancelled after one
missed payment and that ICO guidance was not followed. I didnt think Premium Credit had
any control over the cancellation of the insurance policy and wasnt responsible for the date
of the cancellation. I didnt think a default was ever registered on Mr Cs credit file and for the
reasons I explained, I said the agreement was broken by Mr C not paying the agreed
monthly payment.
For those reasons, my provisional view was that I didnt uphold this complaint. And I also 
thought that, as Mr C ought to have known how important the payment on 7 February 2020 
was, he could reasonably have checked to make sure it was paid. I said that no doubt Mr C 
could provide further information about that as well as provide a copy of his bank statement 
for that time period before my final decision. I also hoped Premium Credit could provide 
further information about the rejection code for the failed February 2020 payment and if it 
intends to take action for the full agreement amount of over £200.
Premium Credit accepts my provisional decision and says its not up to it to take action for 
the agreement amount.
Mr Cs sister on his behalf says it was not Mr Cs fault for what took place and he had 
enough money in his account. She says Premium Credit choose not to take the money
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.I appreciate Mr C says that Premium Credit didnt request the two payments and he had 
enough money in his account to pay both amounts. But I have made clear that I have seen 
evidence that it did request both payments and Mr Cs bank rejected one of those payments.  
I think Mr C could have provided me with his account statement to show how much money 
he did have in the account but hasnt done so. And if he did have enough money then he will 
need to ask his bank why it rejected one of the payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman