DRN-4204689
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to correctly explain at 
the time of sale how the benefit payable on her whole-of-life policy would not continue to 
increase. Mrs C complains that she has now paid more than the policy benefit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
The sale took place in 1995, and so understandably some of the original 
documentation is no longer available. However, Ive been provided with sample 
documentation of what Mrs C wouldve been provided at the time for this policy  
including policy documentation and advertisement leaflets. Ive also received some 
point of sale documentation from Mrs C.
The sale was not an advised one. And as the sale was non-advised, this meant Aviva 
(previously Sun Life) only needed to ensure it provided Mrs C with clear information 
about the policy for her to make an informed choice about whether she wanted to 
purchase it.
Im satisfied the documentation sent to Mrs C at the time in 1995 was clear about 
what the policy was. The marketing documentation Mrs C wouldve received at the 
time states: As the Guaranteed Death Benefit is a fixed sum, the total premiums 
paid could eventually be greater.
This made it clear that Mrs C could potentially end up paying more than what was 
eventually paid out, and that the benefit was fixed. The sample documentation Ive 
been provided also made it clear that if Mrs C was unhappy with the policy she could 
cancel it within 30 days of receiving this information. 
So, upon inspection of the evidence available Im satisfied Aviva made it reasonably 
clear that the policy Mrs C had been sold was one which she could potentially pay 
more into than would eventually be paid out. 
That is the inherent risk of this type of policy  the longer the policy holder lives the 
higher the chance they pay more in premiums than the sum assured agreed to at 
inception.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C and representative of the 
complaint. However, as Im satisfied that the documentation provided to Mrs C would 
have been clear about the policy shed taken out, I cant say Im persuaded that 
Aviva has acted unreasonably. As I think Aviva acted fairly, I wont be asking it to do 
any more.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
During our investigation Aviva made an offer to mark the policy paid up, which was rejected 
by Mrs C. Mrs C may now want to contact Aviva directly to discuss if this option is still 
available to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman