DRN-3152846
The complaint
Miss W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly rejected a 
claim under her pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss W bought her policy, which had a term excluding any claims arising in the first 14 days. 
In that period Miss Ws dog sustained an injury but her claim for treatment costs was 
rejected as Red Sands relied on the policy term excluding such claims.  
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) clearly states that any accident, illness 
or condition occurring in the first 14 days is excluded from cover. The full policy wording also 
repeats this. This is a common exclusion in pet insurance policies and not one thats 
inherently unfair. 
However, Miss W makes a point that marketing material was misleading and stated 
accidents in the first 14 days would be considered on a case by case basis. Red Sands has 
accepted this but says it was an error as it had instructed the information to be corrected.  
Our investigator said the information contradicted what was in the policy but didnt guarantee 
claims within the first 14 days would be paid, rather theyd be considered case by case. 
There was always a risk a claim wouldnt be paid, the policy documentation was clear, and it 
was unlikely cover could have been obtained elsewhere. The investigator thought Miss W 
had suffered a loss of expectation, distress and inconvenience and recommended Red 
Sands pay £300 compensation.
Red Sands agreed but Miss W asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy documentation clearly sets out that claims in the first 14 days are specifically 
excluded from cover. So, under the policy terms Miss Ws claim was fairly rejected.
I am though mindful of Red Sands duty to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. As Miss W set out in her complaint, the website said accident claims in the first 
14 days would be considered on a case by case basis. While that doesnt guarantee such a 
claim would be covered it does represent that it would be considered case by case. And 
given the policy didnt echo this representation, Im satisfied the information wasnt clear and 
misleading. 
In looking at the impact of this, Miss W hasnt represented that this was the key reason why 
she bought the policy. But even if it was, it didnt represent claims would be covered rather 
theyd be considered case by case. So, Im satisfied that Miss W was frustrated at being told 
her claim wouldnt be covered or even considered as it fell in the first 14 days. Ive no doubt 
she was frustrated at having lost out on a potential opportunity to make a valid claim. And 
frustrated at the error with information. Miss W has engaged in raising the anomaly with the 
information on the website when compared to the policy. And she held out some hope 
initially that her claim for a substantial vet bill would be considered on its merits, but it was 
not. Im satisfied the impact was more than minimal and Red Sands has agreed to pay £300 
which Im satisfied is a fair amount of compensation in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must pay Miss W £300 compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay 
Miss W £300 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman