DRN-3576028
The complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) did not fairly handle the 
closing of his current account. 
What happened
M&S sent Mr D an e-mail on 4 March 2021 explaining that they would be no longer be 
providing the current account facility from the end of August 2021.
Mr D raised a complaint about this on 6 March 2021 as he was unhappy that the decision 
had been made and that he had been given under 6 months to find a new provider. 
M&S sent a final response letter explaining it had made a business decision and could not 
change its policy and gave referral rights for our service.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and said he felt just receiving an e-mail notifying 
him of the closure of his account was unprofessional. He was unhappy with the complaints 
process and that he had now lost his overdraft facility, as his new bank did not provide him 
with one. And he felt it was M&S fault that he now had searches on his credit file due to him 
having to switch bank account and apply for a new overdraft. He also felt that, as a disabled 
customer, M&S had not considered him and other disabled customers under the Equality Act 
2010 and treated them fairly.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that M&S had acted fairly when it made 
the decision to close his account as this was a business decision and is not one we could 
force M&S to change. They explained that M&S had given more than the required 2 months 
notice, so had given enough warning prior to the closure of Mr Ds account. They also 
explained that as they did not feel M&S had made an error in closing the account, they 
wouldnt ask M&S to compensate Mr D for having to open an account elsewhere and having 
searches made on his credit file as a result. 
Mr D did not agree with this as he still felt he only incurred credit checks as a result of M&S 
actions. He did not feel we had considered the reasoning M&S gave for withdrawing their 
current account facility in the first place or his comments that M&S could have offered to 
migrate their current accounts to their partner bank.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. And I dont think 
M&S has made an error in the circumstances, so I wont be asking it to take any remedial 
action. 
Mr D has raised a number of complaint points during the process and I will not answer every 
single one during this decision. But I want all parties to know that I have considered all points 
made when reaching an outcome that I feel is fair. Mr D has mentioned a number of times 
that he would like M&S to be fined or punished, so I think it is useful to reflect on the role of 
this service. This service isnt intended to regulate businesses  that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints 
between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we 
would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, 
back in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr D has mentioned that he does not think M&S has considered the Equality Act 2010 when 
removing the current account facility and that it has not treated its disabled customers fairly 
as a result. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  
given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable. If Mr D wants a decision that M&S has breached the Equality Act 2010, 
then he will need to go to court. I say this because only a court of law can decide if a piece of 
legislation has been broken. As a result, this is outside of the remit of this service, but as Ive 
just mentioned I can still consider whether the business acted reasonably.
Ill firstly focus on Mr Ds original complaint to M&S; that he was unhappy they had made the 
decision to withdraw their current account facility and felt their reasons for making the 
decision were disingenuous. I can appreciate Mr Ds frustration at having his current account 
facility removed. But as he has made reference to, it is M&S choice to provide certain 
services and ultimately it has made a business decision to stop providing current accounts. 
This decision, and their reasons for doing so, is not something I am able to change and I see 
no reason to pass comment on. But as Mr D has recognised, I can consider how M&S 
approached the closure of Mr Ds account and how this affected him specifically.
Mr D has said he thinks M&S should have also sent him a letter and not just an e-mail, as 
this could have been incorrectly seen as spam. I can appreciate that Mr D may have also 
liked a letter, but I can see that he telephoned M&S just two days after receiving the e-mail 
to raise a complaint about the accounts being closed. So, I think its more likely that he 
received the e-mail and saw it was a clear and genuine notice of closure. Mr D has said he 
primarily banks online and the fact they had Mr Ds e-mail address on file means its more 
likely they had e-mail noted as an acceptable form of communication. So I think M&S were 
entitled to assume they could contact him this way. There is no regulatory obligation for M&S 
to provide notice by in writing and it can be made electronically or by post. Overall, I see no 
reason why M&S should not have provided notice of closure by e-mail. 
Mr D has said he feels the deadline of just under 6 months was not enough time for him to 
find a new current account provider and that this caused stress during a difficult time. Ive 
considered if the deadline provided was fair and reasonable. The terms and conditions of the 
account state: we can also end the agreement and close your accounts by giving you at 
least two months notice. Therefore, M&S were only required to give two months notice 
under the terms and conditions of the account that Mr D agreed to. 
I understand that Mr D feels M&S have not provided reasonable adjustments for him as a 
vulnerable consumer when they made the decision to close his account and Ive considered 
this very carefully. 
An example of a reasonable adjustment would be providing larger text for individuals who 
have eyesight issues. In this case, I think that providing almost three times the stated notice 
period for the closure of the account is a reasonable adjustment, even considering that it 
may take customers longer to arrange alternative banking due to the pandemic. I dont think 
it would be reasonable to expect M&S to continue to provide banking services to customers solely because they are vulnerable as this is not what I would consider a reasonable 
adjustment. And I note that Mr D was able to switch his current account provider in July, 
within the notice period. 
Mr D is unhappy that there are searches on his credit file as a result of him applying for a 
new current account, as well as a new overdraft. I appreciate his comments that these would 
not have occurred if M&S had not made the decision to close his account. And I agree with 
these comments. But as I dont think M&S has acted unfairly or unreasonably in closing     
Mr Ds account in the first place, I dont think it then needs to provide any compensation or 
rectify anything that occurred after that point. 
I think it also follows that M&S were not required to migrate Mr Ds account to their partner 
bank as he has suggested. There is no requirement in the terms and conditions of the 
account to migrate it in the event of a closure and I dont think M&S has acted unreasonably 
by not offering to migrate it. And, as mentioned previously, Mr D was able to successfully 
switch to a new current account provider within the notice period. So I cant see that hes 
therefore suffered a loss in connection with this. 
I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy he did not automatically get an overdraft with his new 
bank. I can only focus on M&S actions and if theyve made an error. As explained previously, 
I think it was their choice to close the account and they did so with good prior notice and 
gave options on how to switch accounts. And that is where their responsibility for Mr Ds 
banking ends, so I cant hold them responsible for the lending criteria of Mr Ds new bank.
Mr D has mentioned that he was sent some vouchers from M&S following their decision to 
close the accounts and sees this as an admission of liability. And he is unhappy that the 
vouchers provided cannot be used in his local M&S store. However, I do not agree that the 
voucher is an admission of liability and instead think it is more likely a gesture of goodwill in 
the circumstances. And I dont think M&S has acted unfairly in giving Mr D vouchers that he 
is unable to use in his local store as he is still ultimately able to use them elsewhere. 
Having considered everything available to me, I think M&S made a business decision to 
withdraw their current account facilities and they gave clear notice of this with enough prior 
warning. 
So, I think they have acted reasonably in the circumstances and I dont require them to take 
any action to remedy the complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.  
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman