DRN-2713322
The complaint
Miss M complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have declined to 
pay the full amount for repairs to her car following a no fault claim. 
     
What happened
On 8 August 2000, Miss Ms car was damaged when a third party bumped into her car while 
it was parked outside a shop. The third party admitted liability. 
Miss Ms insurance broker appointed an accident management company to deal with the 
repairs, and she was provided with a hire car. The accident management company 
assessed the damage to Miss Bs car and advised it to be a total loss on 17 August 2020. 
Miss M wanted to keep the car as it had sentimental value.  She was advised by the brokers 
that if she wanted to keep the car it would need an MOT and the vehicle would have to be 
checked.  
During the MOT on 28 August 2020 some mechanical issues were identified as well as the 
body damage. Miss M believed that these were connected to the accident. In particular, 
there was an ABS fault light activated on the dashboard, and a noise which she said wasnt 
there before. The ABS fault light was cleared during the MOT. 
On 14 October 2020 the claim was passed back to LV in the light of Miss Bs request to 
repair the vehicle. LVs engineer reviewed the report from the accident management 
company and felt it might not be a total loss. He arranged for the car to be sent to one of 
LVs approved repairers - garage B - for a further inspection.
Garage B didnt think that all the damage to the car was from the accident. They thought that 
the mechanical issue was likely to be a fan belt problem resulting from wear and tear and the 
damage to the alloy wheel was pre-existing as there was some ingrained dirt. They did, 
however, deem the car repairable. 
On 22 October 2020 LVs engineer rang Miss M to explain the findings of garage B and 
advise her what would be covered under the policy. LV agreed to repair the fog lamp cover, 
the bumper, wing, bonnet, and blending into the door. They advised that they would not be 
covering some pre-existing damage to the door, the damage to the alloy wheel, or the 
mechanical issues relating to the noise. 
Miss M decided to get her own quote for the work, and on 28 October 2020 garage C 
provided a quote.  LVs engineer reviewed this quote and made contact with the garage C to 
discuss the estimate, including what they were willing to cover. 
Garage C advised that in diagnostic tests, the engine fault was identified in the fault codes 
as under/over boost which meant that one of the turbo boost pipes was split. This is caused 
by the temperature changes in the engine over a period of time. They also thought that the 
rear brake pads needed changing. They thought that neither of these issues were 
attributable to the accident. 
Garage C revised their quote to include only the bodywork items covered and produced a 
quote of £1241.91 plus VAT of £248.38. 
On 30 October Miss M was offered £1241.91 plus VAT as a settlement. She initially 
accepted this, but then rejected it. The hire car was terminated as LV were ready to settle 
the claim. 
Miss M was advised by LV that the mechanical issues were not covered, but if she took the 
car to a dealership and their diagnostics showed that the mechanical fault was due to the 
accident, and that was in writing, they would also then cover the cost of the diagnostic test 
and the related repairs. 
On 4 November 2020 Miss M had another conversation with LV in which they said that they 
were happy to take the car back into their own repairer for the diagnostics to be run to 
establish the cause of the mechanical fault. Miss M did not accept this offer.
On 13 November 2020 LV wrote to Miss M and explained that they were willing to pay the 
estimate by garage C, but that they would not consider the mechanical issues without proof 
from a dealership that they were connected to the accident. 
On 17 November 2020 Miss M provided an estimate from another repairer -  garage D. She 
also claimed that the brakes on the car had now seized as it had been unused for 3 months 
due to the ongoing dispute. 
In their final response on 19 November 2020, LV said that they would also cover the 
additional body damage in the quote from garage D as a gesture of goodwill.  They sent 
Miss M £1876.50 and advised they would send the VAT of £375.30 on receipt of the invoice. 
They said they would still not cover the repair to the alloy, which was deemed to be existing 
damage, or the mechanical issues. However, they again would be willing to reconsider the 
mechanical issues if a report from a dealership showed the issues were related to the 
accident. 
Miss M had the car repaired at garage D on 27 November 2020. 
Miss M was unhappy with LVs response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Ms complaint but didnt recommend that LV 
needed to do anything further.  
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Ms M and that she feels that she has been 
put through the stress of a claim through no fault of her own. However, I have not upheld the 
complaint, and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether LV have acted in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of their policy, and fairly and reasonably in refusing to cover the mechanical issues and in 
terminating the hire car. Miss M wants LV to pay for the mechanical repairs to her car as she thinks they were 
caused by, or as a direct result of the accident, and also to pay 50% of the cost of a hire car 
for the period that she was in dispute with LV. She thinks that because she was not at fault, 
she should be put back in the position she was before the accident. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Miss M, the information provided by LV 
and their engineer, and the information provided by all the garages concerned. 
Repairs
LV agreed to cover the cost of the bodywork repairs from the accident and they also covered 
the cost of some of the work that was not attributable to the accident as a gesture of 
goodwill.  I understand that Miss M felt that she had to have the whole car sprayed to make 
the paint even, and this was an additional cost. However, this is not something that LV would 
be required to pay for, as the purpose of insurance isnt to improve the car, just to make 
good any damage. 
There are three mechanical issues that need to be considered, the ABS fault light, the noise 
from the engine, and the brakes which Miss M thinks seized because the car was not used. I 
have considered all of these, but I find that LV are not required to meet the cost of these 
repairs. 
The ABS fault light was cleared at the time of the MOT and did not reappear. I cant 
therefore say there is any evidence of a fault with the ABS, or any evidence of a connection 
to the accident. 
Miss M says that the engine noise was not present before the accident. I cant say whether it 
was or not as I have no evidence either way. However, garage C  who Miss M chose to 
take her car to, have said that the fault diagnostic equipment on the car shows there is a split 
turbo pipe which occurs as a result of heating and cooling in the pipes, and is classed as 
wear and tear. This is the likely cause of the noise. Miss M has not provided me with any 
evidence about any other cause for the noise, and so I am persuaded that garage Cs 
explanation is most likely, and it is therefore unconnected with the accident.  
The information provided by garage C also indicates that the brake pads needed replacing at 
the time of their inspection of the car due to wear and tear. I have seen no evidence that the 
brakes seized, nor that they were damaged by the accident. Whilst I accept that brakes can 
seize as a result of a car not being used I havent seen any evidence that this was the case 
here. 
In view of the above, I find that LVs decision not to pay for the additional repairs was 
reasonable. They have paid for additional bodywork to that which was required, and they 
have also advised Miss M that they will reconsider their decision on the mechanical repairs if 
she is able to provide a diagnostic report which shows a connection. She hasnt done so. 
 
Courtesy Car 
A hire car was provided initially through the accident management company, and then direct 
by LV until they were ready to make a settlement offer on 28 October 2020.  
The policy terms and condition say that If your car is being repaired by a recommended 
repairer, they will provide you with a vehicle for the duration of the repair to your car. You 
must return the courtesy vehicle when the owner or we ask you to or if this insurance expires 
and you do not renew itAs Miss M refused to have the repairs undertaken by the approved repairer, this term does 
not apply.  
There is no entitlement under the policy to a hire car when the claim is being settled with a 
cash payment instead of using a recommended repairer. The hire car was therefore being 
provided by LV outside the terms of the policy and as such, they were entitled to withdraw it 
at any time. LV decided to continue to offer the use of the hire car until 28 October 2020, 
which was after they had made an offer of settlement. I find that they have acted fairly in 
doing so. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Ms M, but I hope that my reasons give her a 
clear picture of why I am not upholding her complaint.  
My final decision
I will not therefore be asking Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything 
further. 
They have offered to pay £1876.50 plus VAT to Miss M in respect of the repairs she had 
undertaken by her own repairer, and I think this is fair and reasonable
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman