DRN-3735651
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) was responsible for 
errors and delays that led to the value of his pension plan reducing by about £500 before he 
transferred away to a new pension provider in October 2021. 
What happened
Mr W was a member of his employers group personal pension (GPP) scheme which was 
administered by Scottish Widows. In August 2021, he retired from his employed role. At that 
time his plan in the GPP scheme was valued at about £35,000.
On 10 September 2021, Scottish Widows received from Mr Ws employer a bulk payment 
representing the aggregated monthly contributions for August 2021 for members of the GPP 
scheme for investment in their individual plans. However, the employer didnt send the 
necessary contribution file to enable Scottish Widows to correctly allocate that bulk payment 
to individual plans including Mr Ws plan. On the same day Scottish Widows emailed the 
employer and requested the contribution file. It stated that if it didnt receive it by                 
24 September 2021 then it would return the bulk payment.
On 17 September 2021, Scottish Widows chased the employer for the contribution file.
On 22 September 2021, Scottish Widows received the contribution file. But this didnt marry 
up with the bulk payment  there was a difference of £1,597.17. Scottish Widows emailed 
the employer on the same day to seek clarification on whether the overpayment of £1,597.17 
should be returned to the source bank account or whether there was an error in the 
contribution file. It stated that if it didnt receive clarification on the discrepancy by                        
24 September 2021 then it would return the bulk payment.
On 24 September 2021, Scottish Widows emailed the employer to confirm that it had 
returned the bulk payment because it hadnt received clarification regarding the discrepancy.
On 27 September 2021, the employer provided clarification on the discrepancy  it had been 
caused by two members transferring out of the GPP scheme without telling the employer 
who submitted contributions for them for August 2021, resulting in the overpayment of 
£1,597.17. The corrected bulk payment and contribution file were provided to Scottish 
Widows who then applied the contributions to individual plans, including Mr Ws plan, on                
30 September 2021.
On 1 Friday October 2021 at 17:35, Scottish Widows received Mr Ws transfer instruction to 
switch the value of his plan to a new pension provider. It processed the request based on the 
closing unit price on the next working day on Monday 4 October 2021. It paid an amount of 
£35,186.56 to the new pension provider on the same date.
This complaint
Mr W was unhappy about the delay and explanation provided by Scottish Widows regarding 
the investment of his August contribution to his pension plan on 30 September 2021. He said 
that this delayed the transfer to his new pension provider. He was also unhappy that Scottish 
Widows didnt process his transfer request based on the closing unit price on                        
1 October 2021. He felt that these issues had caused him to suffer a financial loss of about 
£500.
Scottish Widows upheld Mr Ws complaint in part. It agreed that following Mr W expressing 
concern about the delayed investment of the contribution it had provided a poor level of 
service and then didnt record this complaint accurately. In recognition of this, it offered Mr W 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Scottish Widows didnt accept the 
elements of Mr Ws complaint relating to the delay in Scottish Widows applying the August 
contribution to his pension plan on 30 September 2021 or the unit price the subsequent 
transfer payment was based on.
Mr W accepted the compensation payment of £100. But he wasnt satisfied with Scottish 
Widows response on the other elements of his complaint and so referred the matter to this 
service. He thought that Scottish Widows had made an error when it returned the bulk 
payment to his employer on 24 September 2021. In his view, from the date it received the 
bulk payment on 10 September 2021, Scottish Widows shouldve carved out the part of the 
bulk payment that represented his contribution and applied it to his pension plan while it 
resolved the missing contribution file and later discrepancy  had it done this, he said he 
couldve transferred away sooner than he did and received a higher transfer value than the 
amount of £35,186.56 eventually paid on 4 October 2021.
Our investigator didnt think Scottish Widows needed to take any further action. This was 
because he was satisfied that it hadnt made an error or treated Mr W unfairly regarding 
processing the August contribution to his pension plan or the subsequent transfer to his new 
pension provider.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators assessment. In support of his position, he said that 
Scottish Widows systems and process for handling bulk payments was inadequate which 
had resulted in him missing out on a higher transfer value. And that, due to this deficiency, it 
had previously returned bulk payments which resulted in it changing its process after he 
complained. He said that this is the fundamental issue that needs to be considered. Our 
investigator considered Mr Ws additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr W was a member of a GPP scheme. His employer had appointed Scottish 
Widows as the pension provider for the GPP scheme. The employer had a legal 
obligation to make contributions to the GPP scheme for active members every time it 
ran its monthly payroll. By law, the employer had to send those contributions to 
Scottish Widows by the 22nd day of the next month. The employer also had a legal 
responsibility to provide certain and accurate information to Scottish Widows such as 
any changes to a members earnings, contribution rate or whether any had had left 
the scheme.
If employers fail to pay the correct level of contributions on time, they can be fined by The Pensions Regulator. For ease of administration for both the employer and 
pension provider, contributions are normally aggregated and sent as a bulk payment. 
Scottish Widows was reliant on the employer sending to it the correct bulk payment 
and associated contribution file in a timely manner so that it could accurately allocate 
the money to individual plans.
When the employer sent the bulk payment to Scottish Widows on                                             
10 September 2021, it failed to include the necessary contribution file. Without the 
contribution file, Scottish Widows couldnt correctly allocate the money to individual 
plans. This error wasnt Scottish Widows fault.
When the employer sent the contribution file on 22 September 2021, this didnt marry 
up with the bulk payment it had previously sent. As a result, Scottish Widows was 
unable to process the bulk payment  I think it was reasonable for Scottish Widows 
to query this discrepancy and apparent overpayment of £1,597.17 before it 
processed the bulk payment.
Scottish Widows told the employer that if the missing information and discrepancy 
wasnt resolved by 24 September 2021 then it would return the bulk payment. I think 
Scottish Widows gave the employer ample time to resolve the matter and provide 
accurate information so that it could process the bulk payment in a timely manner. 
Since the matter wasnt resolved by the stated deadline, I think it was reasonable for 
Scottish Widows to return the payment to the employer, as it had warned it would do 
so.
Mr W believes that Scottish Widows systems and process for handling bulk 
payments at that time was inadequate which resulted in him missing out on a higher 
transfer value. I dont agree. At that time, Scottish Widows system for managing 
GPP schemes was to receive a bulk payment and corresponding contribution file. Its 
system was designed to cross reference the file with contributions for all members of 
the scheme. If there was a mismatch, then it couldnt process the payment or apply 
payments for some members then add others later  all discrepancies had to be 
resolved before the payment could be processed. I dont think this is an unfair or 
unreasonable process bearing in mind that it was ultimately the employers 
responsibility to send the correct bulk payment amount and contribution file. Had that 
happened in this case, then there wouldnt have been a delay. I dont think it would 
be fair to hold Scottish Widows accountable for the errors or delays caused by 
another party. 
It wasnt until 27 September 2021 that Scottish Widows received the corrected bulk 
payment and contribution file. It then applied the contributions for August to individual 
plans, including Mr Ws plan, on 30 September 2021. I think this was a reasonable 
timeframe. 
As for Mr Ws transfer request made on 1 October 2021, Scottish Widows terms and 
conditions for his pension plan confirm that it sells units on the day after receiving 
transfer instructions if received after 17:00. It received his transfer request at 17:35 
on Friday October 2021  so the 17:00 cut-off had been missed. It then processed 
the request based on the closing unit price on the next working day on                         
Monday 4 October 2021. So Im satisfied that Scottish Widows processed Mr Ws 
request in a timely manner and in line with the terms and conditions of the plan.
I understand that Mr W was frustrated and upset by the delay in the August 
contribution being processed in a timely manner and that Scottish Widows didnt 
process his transfer request based on the unit prices on 1 October 2021. Overall, however, Im satisfied that Scottish Widows acted promptly and reasonably 
throughout, for the reasons explained above. I dont think Scottish Widows made an 
error or treated Mr W unfairly. Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to direct Scottish Widows to pay additional 
compensation to Mr W  or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman