DRN-3566179
The complaint
Miss S complained about the poor customer service she received from Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited (Admiral) under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S neighbour alerted her to a leak coming from her property, so Miss S raised a claim 
under her policy. The claim was complicated by a couple of factors (location of leaking pipe 
and policy limits), which meant it was unclear whether Admiral as her home insurer should 
be managing the claim or her home emergency provider.
Due to these complications, Miss S said she felt she was passed between departments and 
no one took ownership of her claim. She felt that the communication from Admiral was poor. 
Miss S said she paid for a platinum service and didnt think Admiral had provided her any 
help or understanding. She felt emotional, stressed, and deflated.
It took four weeks for the leak to be fixed and Miss S had to leave her property as her toilet 
wasnt serviceable. Miss S chose to stay with a friend. Miss S wants the excess to be waived 
on her policy.
Admiral agreed that Miss S was passed between departments and no one took ownership 
for the claim, so paid £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. It 
also paid Miss S £25 compensation when there was some confusion with invoices supplied 
when the settlement of the claim was determined. However, Admiral didnt think its overall 
communication was sub-standard and didnt think it caused any delays.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought the level of distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Miss S was higher than what Admiral compensated her for. So, 
she increased the compensation by £75 for the time Miss S spent on calls trying to speak to 
someone to determine how to get her claim covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to waive the excess from the policy as this is a contractual clause from the 
policy that would need to be honoured. It would only be the insurers right to waive this 
payment. However, I can look at whether the level of compensation paid is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of what happened are familiar between the parties and were covered at 
length by the investigator in her view to them. As neither party responded to the view, I think 
its fair to assume these details are an accurate reflection of the timeline of events, so I wont 
be repeating this detail in my decision. Instead, I will focus on the outcome of my decision.
In claims, its the insurer who is the expert in managing the claims, with the claimant often 
been new to making a claim or a novice. Therefore, my expectation is that Admiral in the 
claim shouldve at the start taken ownership for what the claim was and advised on the 
appropriate course of action. When Miss S made her claim, she was at her most vulnerable 
and this is the time she wouldve expected Admiral to step up and take charge of the 
situation.
Its clear Admiral didnt do this. Miss S was transferred between departments as Admiral 
didnt take ownership. Admiral said it communicated with Miss S. This maybe the case, but 
unfortunately that communication was ineffective as she was left confused and left to her 
own devices to sort her claim out.
Therefore, I uphold this complaint as I dont think Admiral has done enough as Miss S 
insurer to manage her claim for her. Ive noted that Admiral were pro-active in offering Miss 
S alternative accommodation when the need arose. However, as she was happy to stay with 
her friend, Admiral paid a daily allowance. I think this was a reasonable approach to take.
Ive considered the level of compensation I think is due. I agree with the investigators view, 
that £150 compensation is fair (an increase of £75 on what was paid by Admiral). I think that 
this recognises that with any claim there will be a normal level of inconvenience to be 
expected. The leak wasnt caused by Admiral, so it wasnt Admiral that caused Miss S to 
have to move out of her home. There is also a period at the start of a claim where it is fair for 
an insurer to validate the claim and understand what has happened. However, I think 
Admiral didnt handle this part as well as it couldve done. This resulted in more time on calls 
for Miss S. She experienced additional stress in trying to get her claim covered and the 
inconvenience of her claim been slightly extended. So, in summary, I uphold the complaint 
and award a further £75 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Miss S:
£75* compensation - for distress and inconvenience.
* Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it that Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman