DRN-2456470
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has only paid a small part of their
home insurance claim for water damage to their home following a leak from a pipe.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr B and Ms M reported a claim to Aviva as they had discovered dry rot in
their property, when they noticed a floor had started to drop. They had employed a surveyor
(P) who advised that this was likely due to a water leak, spreading out from the downstairs
cloakroom into the rest of the ground floor and causing the aforesaid dry rot. They had also
reported a loss of pressure in their heating.
Aviva sent out a leak detection company (D) who advised that the dry rot was probably due
to the underfloor heating and a lack of ventilation to the sub floor. It said that as damage by
dry rot is excluded under the policy, it said the damage in this respect wasnt covered. Aviva
declined the claim after considering Ds report.
The damage was caused by dry rot due to increased moisture levels in the sub-floor
throughout the ground floor which caused the joists in two rooms to disintegrate and those in
two others to be affected. As a result of this, flooring throughout the ground floor had to be
removed, part of the underfloor heating system had to be taken out and replaced with 
radiators, the rotted joists were replaced and the remaining joists were treated. Mr B and Ms 
M have paid for this work to be done, at a cost of over £37,000.
Mr B and Ms M showed Aviva photos of the damaged areas once the flooring had been
taken up. Aviva agreed that there was a leak and said it would pay for the localised damage
it said was caused by the escape of water. But it wouldnt pay for the wider damage caused
by dry rot, as it said that it came under the exclusion in the policy for wear and tear, dry rot or
wet rot. It recognised that its representative should have acknowledged Mr B and Ms Ms
later evidence, and paid them £25 for the inconvenience.
On referral to this service our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that the dry rot was
a direct result of the water leak, and in line with our approach in such cases, it wasnt
reasonable for Aviva to rely on the exclusion for wear and tear/dry rot to defeat the claim.
Aviva didnt agree pointing out specifically that the damage was caused because the
property had been drastically altered and extended which meant that there was/is insufficient
cross ventilation and airflow to the void. Part of the alteration was underfloor heating which
given the lack of ventilation created a breeding ground for dry rot formation raising
temperature and humidity in the void. It further said that the damage wasnt consistent with
the immediate escape of water and had likely been going on for a long time, although only
recently reported.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I noted that Aviva had paid for the damage 
actually caused by the escape of water under that term in that policy. But I didnt think it was 
liable to pay for the extended damage as this was caused by dry rot which was in turn 
caused by the insufficient cross ventilation and airflow to the void.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision
Mr B and Ms M didnt accept it. Ive set out below their specific points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
There are two reports on the likely cause of the damage, one from P and the other from D.
Aviva relies on the report from D which said:
Whilst the diagnosis of dry rot presence appears correct. It is important to understand how
the formation of dry rot develops, with [the] key being adequate air flow. The higher humidity
readings in the subfloor suggest moisture formation could be easily found but [as] the air
bricks appear to be positioned a distance away, free air movement appears unlikely. It is
also possible that the insulation coupled with underfloor heating in this area has contributed
to the high humidity readings. The reported pressure loss would be an unlikely leak with
such a frequency of reduction.
The report also refers to the property having been altered and extended, with installation of
the underfloor heating which meant that there was/is insufficient cross ventilation and airflow
to the void.
P said:
Due [to] past defective plumbing to the ground floor WC excess moisture has been allowed
to penetrate the building fabric. This has been absorbed by the adjacent timbers raising their
moisture content to above 20% of their oven-dry weight. These conditions have resulted in
the germination of the spores of the true Dry Rot fungus bringing about the breakdown of the
following timbers: - [floor joists skirting boards and engineered wood flooring]
P doesnt mention the lack of ventilation in the sub-floor area. But I do think that Aviva is
right in saying that for dry rot to form and spread there has to be a lack of ventilation. And
while P doesnt specifically say this in its report, on its website it says:
Dry rot is caused when humidity (between 18 - 30%) and poor ventilation combine to
provide the perfect habitat for fungal growth.
Aviva relies in part on the following exclusion in the policy to deny the claim:
Loss or damage caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens
gradually.
Our approach to this sort of exclusion is firstly that for something which happened gradually
(as lots of claims for escape of water do) it cant be relied upon unless the consumer could
have been expected to notice the damage occurring yet did nothing about it. For this sort of
damage (rotting of the floor joists and other wood) it must have been going on for a long
time. As it all happened under the floor I think its reasonable to accept that Mr B and Ms M
didnt and couldnt have been expected to notice the damage earlier than they did.
The same approach would apply to wet or dry rot, but only where the rot is the direct result
of damage covered under the claim. Here the escape of water has caused immediate
damage to its surrounding area, which Aviva has paid for. But the damage having advancedto rot which has spread has, in my view, most likely been caused by poor ventilation of the
sub floor area aggravated by the underfloor heating. I say this given the balance of the
evidence set out above. Whilst the leak meant there was excessive moisture, I dont think
from the evidence that this would have happened but for the poor ventilation brought about
when the property was extended. There is a general exclusion in the policy which is for:
Any loss, damage or liability caused by or arising from:
faulty design or workmanship or the use of faulty materials
Whilst Aviva hasnt specifically said its relying on that exclusion, I think it highlights the fact
that the dry rot which caused the major damage to the property isnt covered under the
policy, nor is the cause of the dry rot. Aviva has paid for the damage actually caused by the 
escape of water under that term in that policy. But I dont think its liable to pay for the 
extended damage as this was caused by dry rot which was in turn caused by the insufficient 
cross ventilation and airflow to the void. In my view its refusal to cover this damage was fair 
and reasonable
Ive looked at the compensation paid for failing to acknowledge an email, and I note Mr B
and Ms Ms frustration with Aviva s approach. But on the basis that I havent said it will now
have to pay the claim I dont intend to add any more compensation.
Mr B and Ms M commented as follows:
investigators view
They were assured by the investigator that this was a straightforward case and they 
expected it to be upheld. He quoted to them a previous decision of this service (actually a 
case study) which seemed to very closely match their own circumstances, therefore they 
had every reason to expect their complaint, when placed before the ombudsman, would be 
upheld. 
Firstly Im aware that my decision was disappointing and upsetting, which is why I gave Mr B 
and Ms M extended time to get further evidence.. However the case study they quote dealt 
with the point that, in escape of water cases we consider it unfair for insurers to rely on an 
exclusion for gradual loss. And I made exactly that point in my provisional findings. But that 
is not relevant to this case  where the damage is likely caused by an intervening factor.
cause of damage
Mr B and Ms M have referred to the question of ventilation, and have helpfully provided 
evidence for when the extension was built, together with more details of where the dry rot 
spread, and the positioning of the airbricks. I did indicate that it would be helpful to have 
more information from their original surveyor. And although that surveyor isnt available, they 
have forwarded to us an email from someone who worked on the original team who went on 
to carry out the repairs.
I note that the original specification of work allowed for ventilation. And I note Mr B and Ms M 
refer again to the fact that Aviva failed to attend after the floor was taken up. But their survey 
and report took place in March 2019, and this was followed up in May 2019 by Avivas 
survey and report. So I have no evidence from P after the floors were taken up, except the 
aforesaid email which says:
..to the best of my recollection the primary cause of the damage throughout theground floor was a leak from the downstairs cloakroom rather than any gradual wear and 
tear due to lack of ventilation. There were airbricks situated to the front and back of the 
house ensuring adequate crossflow ventilation throughout the underfloor.
The problem with this is that it doesnt address the point I previously made which is that dry 
rot is caused by a combination of humidity and poor ventilation, as confirmed by that 
surveyors own website. There also must have been a gradual loss, given the extent of the 
dry rot, which must have taken some time to build up. As regards the airbricks the 
indications are that they were moved from the back of the family room when the extension 
was built. According to the photos they are now placed at the end of the patio, outside the 
extension, which means they were moved some distance from their original location. Whilst I 
note what P now says, I dont think that there could have been adequate ventilation 
otherwise the dry rot wouldnt have taken hold.
So whilst I note Mr B and Ms Ms criticisms of the report by D, it was drawn up after Ps 
report, so would have seen the same parts of the floor/sub floor that P saw. Additionally 
there is the question of the underfloor heating  Ive noted that this was taken up in the 
affected area and replaced by radiators after the floor joists were replaced and the timber 
treatment done. Given the changes to the heating arrangements after the claim, it would 
seem likely the type of heating and flooring was considered to be contributory factors to the 
dry rot.
I referred in my provisional findings to faulty design or workmanship. I havent found that 
there was any such faulty design or workmanship, and its not meant to imply that Mr B and 
Ms M were negligent.
So overall. I think it is reasonable to say the lack of ventilation was a problem and that this 
linked in with damp was the main cause of the dry rot. I think it was fair for Aviva to pay for 
the damage in the immediate areas of the leak. Whilst I appreciate that this was a small part 
of the overall cost of the work, I nevertheless think it was reasonable contribution. I note that 
other areas of the house werent affected and they still have underfloor heating, but there 
could be different ventilation arrangements there or simply dry rot spores havent taken hold. 
It might be wise if Mr B and Ms M havent already done so to have those areas checked out. 
I dont think that shows that the dry rot in the family room/garden room area was caused by 
the leak.  
So with regret for the disappointment to Mr B and Ms M, Im not persuaded that my 
provisional findings were wrong. They are now final and form part of this final decision. 
final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman