DRN-4198601
The complaint
Miss F has complained Starling Bank Limited wont refund money she lost from her account 
as a result of a scam.
What happened
In 2022 Miss F received a call from someone stating they were from her bank, Starling. She 
was told a fraudulent payment was being attempted from her account for £750. She could 
see this was the case and rejected the payment on her app as requested.
Miss F was immediately reassured that the call came from her bank, and they had her 
interests at heart. At the same time she was extremely concerned about losing any money 
from her account. They went on to ask whether shed got any messages about a parcel not 
being delivered properly. She said she had and had responded to that message providing 
them with her name and card details. She was warned not to do so again and that this had 
led to the account compromise. She would need to take action to ensure her money was 
kept safe.
Miss F then followed the instructions she was given, including giving the person on the 
phone  supposedly Starling  the codes sent by Starling, her actual bank, to authorise the 
transactions. She was told these were needed to set up a new account. She believed a 
separate account was being set up in her name and three payments, £1,500, £4,000 and 
£800, were made by her card to this account. She was told shed be able to access her new 
account using face ID. 
After the call was brought to an end abruptly, Miss F realised something was wrong. With 
her fathers help, she was able to get the two later transactions made to a money transfer 
service with her card refunded. She called Starling quickly after what had happened to ask 
them to help refund the payment for £1,500. This was the amount she couldnt get back as 
itd already been spent. They wouldnt do so.
Miss F brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted Starling had warned Miss F that they would never ask her to share 
the code but had not taken additional steps to carry out checks on her payments. She 
believed they should have done so when Miss F was transferring £4,000 out of her account 
as this amounted to the vast majority of her remaining money. However as this money and 
the later payment had already been refunded to Miss F by the money transfer service, she 
couldnt ask Starling to refund Miss F the outstanding £1,500.
Miss F didnt agree with this outcome. Her complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 May 2023. I believed there had been adequate 
opportunity for Starling to take steps and intervene. I asked them to refund Miss F the 
outstanding £1,500.
Miss F agreed with this outcome. I received nothing further from Starling.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and received no dissenting opinion or evidence, Ive reached the same 
outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Miss F made and authorised the payments. Miss F knew the reasons 
why she was being asked to set up a new account and why she needed to share codes and 
other details to help her supposed bank. At the stage she was making these payments, she 
believed she was taking urgent action to keep her own money safe. She believed once this 
had been done, shed be able to access her new account.
I dont dispute Miss F was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 Im 
satisfied the transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Starling has an obligation to follow Miss Fs instructions. So in the first 
instance Miss F is presumed liable for her loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Starling 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Miss F fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Unfortunately safe account scams  which is what 
this was  are not massively unusual. Miss F realises how this happened as she responded 
to a fake message supposedly from a delivery company. This allowed fraudsters to know 
Miss F had an account with Starling and meant they could tailor their approach to her and 
make it believable. 
So, for example, the call Miss F received came from a number not that different to the 
Starling phone number. I know Starling have said theyd have expected Miss F to undertake 
some checks to ensure who was calling her was genuine. I disagree. I dont think this takes 
into account the stress that can be caused by these kind of calls and the panic theyre meant 
to engender in the people who receive them. Particularly when I take into account Miss Fs 
personal circumstances.
The fraudster was also able to explain in detail how Miss F should make the payments and 
direct her to the relevant aspects which helped to gain her trust. Starling has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions, but 
Miss F wasnt doing anything sufficiently unusual to trigger any warnings.
However I find this surprising. Miss F by making three payments in quick succession 
emptied her current account, apart from a few pounds. This should have been sufficient for 
Starling to have taken action as these activities strike me as unusual.
In addition, Im aware that by the time the three payments were authorised and made, a 
payment of £729 and two payments of £1,500 had been attempted. These show on the list 
of transactions Starling shared with us. Although these payments were unsuccessful as they 
werent authorised successfully, I believe those attempted payments should have alerted 
Starling that something was wrong.
I have taken into account that Miss F was presented with warnings not to share her codes to 
authorise the payments. However by this time Miss F was convinced she was talking to her 
genuine bank so didnt see anything wrong in doing so. 
Theres no record of any similar card payments on her account within the preceding six 
months. I dont believe any argument that this reflects her normal payment behaviour would 
stack up.
For these reasons I believe Starling should have undertaken additional steps to intervene at 
the time the first payment of £1,500 was successfully authorised. Financial institutions are 
able to block card payments, and this is the step Id have expected Starling to have taken 
here. This would have brought what was happening to an end as Im sure if Miss Fs card 
had been blocked, the fraudsters would have come off of the phone immediately.
As I say, safe account scams are not unusual. All banks are aware of how these operate. 
The use of a card to send payments to a money transfer service is particularly prevalent. 
This limits banks ability to send messages which can be done when customers are making 
online transactions.
Putting things right
As I believe any intervention Starling should have made would have changed what 
happened here, I am going to ask them to refund £1,500 to Miss F.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Starling Bank Limited to refund £1,500 
to Miss F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman