DRN-3593164
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) wont allow him to access the benefits in his 
previous employers group personal pension plan (PP) until he reaches the minimum 
retirement age of 55.  
What happened
In 2001, Mr T took out a PP with ReAssure (Legal & General at the time). In late September 
2021, when Mr T was aged 41 based on his date of birth (DOB), he told ReAssure he 
wanted to access his PP fund as he identifies as 20 years older than this. He said this is due 
to his health which makes him look, sound and feel older and that some of his conditions are 
more common in people in their 70s.
ReAssure told Mr T he wasnt able to do this until he reached 55 years old due to the law 
relating to pension arrangements. Mr T complained ReAssure was discriminating against 
him based on his age and he asked it to transfer his fund value to his bank account. 
In response, in November 2021, ReAssure acknowledged Mr Ts comments about the age 
he identifies as, but stressed that it was unable to allow him to access benefits (such as his 
fund) from his PP. It explained this is standard and a part of his policy terms and conditions. 
And that theres a minimum age of 55 to access a pension fund under current legislation, 
unless entitled to do so earlier under the rules that relate to ill-health. 
Mr T brought his complaint to our Service, adding that the paperwork from when he took out 
his PP doesnt say he can only access this when he reaches age 55 (using his DOB) nor 
does it specify a date when he can do so. Mr T said he feels discriminated against by 
ReAssure due to the age he identifies as. He also said hes enquiring about disability 
benefits and that he has spoken to his doctor about why he identifies as older. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and said ReAssure has acted fairly 
and reasonably, as the policy terms and conditions reflect legislation which applies to 
everyone and sets out that benefits cannot usually be accessed before the age of 55. She 
said that when Mr Ts PP was set up he chose 65 as his retirement age. And whilst the 
documents dont give a specific date for when this would be reached, its reasonable to 
understand this would be 65 years from the DOB he provided. She also noted Mr Ts 
retirement date was recorded in ReAssures yearly review letter.  
Another Investigator at this Service reiterated this. She said Mr T has been given the same 
options as any other member in the circumstances. And that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
to ask ReAssure to go against legislation it has to follow. 
Mr T didnt agree. He added that when he took out his PP he felt his age, but this changed 
as he got older. He feels his position is similar to those who identify as a different gender to 
that when a policy was started. He also said that, as the documentation from the time 
doesnt give a specific retirement date, ReAssure is holding his funds without his consent. 
So Mr Ts complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments and Im sorry to hear of his 
health problems, I dont think ReAssure has done anything wrong. I think it has acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances, for largely the same reasons as our Investigator. This 
means Im not asking ReAssure to do anything. Ill explain why. 
It isnt our role to say whether ReAssure has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to 
do so we have to take a number of things into account, including relevant law and what we 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its for the Courts to 
say whether or not ReAssure has breached the Equality Act 2010  for example, whether or 
not it has discriminated against Mr T on grounds of age  were required to take the Equality 
Act 2010 into account, if relevant, amongst other things when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The current minimum retirement age of 55 (when someone can access funds held in their 
pension) applies to everyone holding funds in a pension in the UK. The law sets out that 
pension providers must not pay benefits to policyholders before they reach this age. And all 
such providers, like ReAssure, are required to follow the law in respect of this. 
There are very limited circumstances allowed by law for a policyholder to access pension 
funds before the age of 55, the most relevant here being ill-health or serious ill-health. Such 
a claim is usually made to a provider and medical information and a medical report are often 
needed, given the rules in place. For example, what is required by His Majestys Revenue 
and Customs. The plan terms will explain more about whats required and this is often 
relevant where someone is unable to work or there is a terminal health diagnosis.
In relation to considering Mr Ts age Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable for ReAssure to 
use his DOB to establish this. Whilst I recognise a person may feel older or younger, its 
reasonable to understand that it is a persons DOB that is used to determine their age when 
it comes to the application of the law. I understand matters have changed for Mr T since he 
completed the application form for the PP and provided his DOB. But this doesnt mean his 
recorded DOB and his age based on that, as it is reasonably understood, has changed.
It is usual for a pension policy to have a selected retirement age when a policy is started. In 
this case I can see Mr T selected age 65. It is also usual (and reasonable) to understand this 
to mean benefits are intended to be taken when a policyholder reaches this age, in other 
words on Mr Ts sixty fifth birthday. The use of an age instead of a date in the documentation 
from the time doesnt mean his policy is flawed. For completeness, it is also Mr Ts DOB that 
will be used when it comes to considering his entitlement to the state pension, for example.
I dont consider Mr Ts comment that his identifying as older than his recorded birth age is 
analogous to the position hed be in if he identified as female. And I dont think this is 
relevant to the issues I need to decide when looking at how ReAssure has treated Mr T. 
ReAssure hasnt treated Mr T differently to other policyholders based on his age. It has 
explained what the law is about how a person can access pension benefits. And if Mr T 
considers that the legislation in respect of this is inconsistent with the Equality Act 2010 then 
thats something hed need to explore elsewhere.When it comes to financial services there are certain exceptions under the Equality Act 2010 
in any event, which means that age can be taken account of when designing and pricing 
certain services, for example. But I dont think I need to say anything further on this. 
Mr T has let us know hes seeking disability benefits. If he wishes to make a claim to 
ReAssure for it to consider if hed meet the ill-health criteria to access his PP before 
reaching the age of 55, then he can contact it and find out more about whats required. 
For the reasons given, whilst I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed, Im not asking ReAssure 
to do anything as I think it has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. It remains a 
matter for Mr T if he wishes to transfer to a different provider, however the legislation in 
respect of pensions remains the same.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint against ReAssure Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman