DRN-2500476
The complaint
Mrs P complains Countrywide Assured Plc is responsible for mis-selling her a decreasing 
term assurance policy.
Mrs Ps complaint has been brought by a representative acting on her behalf, but for 
simplicity I will refer to Mrs P throughout my decision. 
What happened
In 1995 Mrs P took out a decreasing term assurance policy alongside a mortgage shed 
applied for at the time. The policy provided £23,000 of cover in the event Mrs P died during 
the 10-year term. Mrs P cancelled the policy early in 2003. The policy was sold by a 
business that has since been taken over by Countrywide. 
Mrs P contacted our service to complain that the policy had been mis-sold. She said she 
wasnt advised the cover was optional, nor were the policy terms and conditions explained to 
her at the time of sale. She said the policy was unsuitable for her as she had other means by 
which to protect her mortgage  namely employee benefits and savings. 
Having received Mrs Ps complaint, Countrywide said it wouldnt investigate it as it had been 
raised too late. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, while she didnt agree the complaint had been 
brought too late, she wasnt persuaded the policy had been mis-sold. She said the available 
evidence, while limited, indicated the policy had been sold on an execution-only basis. This 
meant Mrs P wouldnt have been advised about the suitability of the policy. In any event, she 
didnt consider the policy to be unsuitable for Mrs P. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She disputed the 
policy had been sold on an execution-only basis and said shed only have taken it out if 
shed been advised to do so. She noted shed never been told to take out life cover with any 
of her previous mortgages. She also maintained she had no need for the policy as she had 
enough financial security by way of her employee benefits and savings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, so Ill explain how Ive reached 
my conclusions. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Its important to note the sale of this policy took place over 25 years ago, and it was 
cancelled over 17 years ago. This has a significant impact on the availability of evidence. Its 
not unusual in cases such as this for there to be limited, or in some cases, no evidence 
available from the time of the sale. Theres no obligation on a business to retain information 
indefinitely, and some information will have been destroyed to comply with data protection 
laws. Countrywide explained that the original business that sold Mrs P the policy was 
transferred into its existing business in 2014. It explained that as Mrs Ps policy had been 
cancelled more than 10 years before the transfer took place, the records relating to the 
policy hadnt been transferred to it. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.  
The absence of information from the time of the sale isnt enough for me to conclude the 
policy was mis-sold. To conclude that Id need Mrs P to persuade me, either through her 
testimony or other evidence, that the policy had been mis-sold. Mrs P hasnt done so. 
Countrywide has told us that the policy was sold on an execution-only basis. This means 
Mrs P wouldve been presented with information about the policy but wouldnt have been 
advised about whether the plan was suitable for her or not. Its provided a copy of a letter 
and declaration it says Mrs P would have been required to sign. Ive no reason to doubt what 
Countrywide has told us about the policy. 
Mrs P hasnt sufficiently demonstrated she was advised to take out the policy. When asked 
for her recollections of the sale Mrs P said she couldnt remember but was fairly certain it 
would have been at a meeting. Mrs P doesnt appear to have any actual recollection of 
being advised about the policy, only a belief that she wouldnt have proceeded without 
advice. Given that Mrs P has, at best, vague recollections of the sale and cant specifically 
recall receiving advice, Im not sufficiently persuaded by her recollection that she was given 
advice about the suitability of the policy. So Ive accepted that the policy was sold on an 
execution-only basis. As such, Countrywide is not responsible for whether the policy was in 
fact suitable. 
Throughout the 1990s it was a common for mortgage companies to require the mortgage 
holder to have life cover in place to protect their mortgage. While I cant say for certain that 
this applied to Mrs Ps case, it seems more likely than not that there was a condition 
attached to her lending. Mrs P has provided us with a copy of the notice of assignment to the 
mortgage company. This meant that if Mrs P were to die during the policy term the policy 
benefit would be paid directly to the mortgage provider to repay the outstanding mortgage. 
This also supports Mrs Ps vague recollection that she was told she had to have the policy, 
as she most likely did to be able to secure the mortgage. 
Ultimately a lender can impose whatever conditions it considers necessary and appropriate 
before lending, as noted often this included the requirement for valid life insurance. This 
wasnt unreasonable. As the policys sum assured matched the mortgage amount and it ran 
for the same term as the mortgage it wouldve been appropriate to satisfy the mortgage 
condition. 
In summary, having considered everything, I think its most likely Mrs P was required to have 
life cover in place to obtain her mortgage. Im persuaded the sale of the policy was then 
carried out on an execution-only basis. In the circumstances, I cant agree the policy was 
mis-sold and I wont be asking Countrywide to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman