DRN-2744500
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely loans irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. In summary Likely loans lent Mr M one loan in January 2019. The loan was for £3,000 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £227.89.
When this complaint was looked at by our adjudicator, she didnt think Likely loans had done 
anything wrong, but Mr M disagreed, he said he was reliant on credit and that had Likely 
loans carried out proportionate checks it would have seen this and wouldnt have lent to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Likely Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr M would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Having looked at all the information available here, I think Likely loans did enough before 
agreeing to lend to Mr M. Ill explain why.
This was Mr Ms first and only loan with Likely loans, I appreciate that the loan term was two 
years but Im also mindful that Mr M didnt have an existing relationship with Likely loans.
Mr M declared his monthly income as £2,639.07 and after Likely loans carried out its checks, 
it says it found that Mr Ms income was less than he declared, around £2,403. Likely loans 
lent on the basis that Mr Ms living costs were around £955, following its own checks.
Likely loans also carried out a credit search, I can see that Mr M feels the search was likely 
not thorough enough and has provided us with a search by another lender for a loan he took 
a few months before this loan. Lenders are required to carry out proportionate checks and 
these checks will vary from case to case, there isnt a requirement for Likely Loans to carry 
out a particular type of credit search and different searches may show different things, but I 
have to decide this case based on what Likely loans knew or ought reasonably to have 
known and so Ive placed more weight on the results of Likely Loans checks at the time it 
lent.
Likely loans has provided a summary of its credit search and from what I can see there were 
no bankruptcies or record of Mr M being in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) at the 
time. The results also showed that Mr M was paying around £651 towards credit. From this 
search results, it doesnt appear to be anything that I think should have concerned Likely 
loans.
Also, the loan repayment of £227.89 was a small fraction of Mr Ms income and taking into 
account his income and expenses, hed have been left with sufficient disposable income 
after repaying this loan.  
So, while it is possible that had Likely loans taken its checks further it would have found that 
Mr M couldnt afford the loan, I think it carried out proportionate checks and those checks 
showed that Mr M could afford the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman