Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr B complains that Billing Finance Ltd refused to cover the cost of repairs to a faulty car.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr B acquired a second-hand car at a cost of £11,670 funded by a hire 
purchase agreement. The car was a just under six years old and had covered 64,265 miles. 
In November 2018 the car had a fuel leak which was repaired by a local garage. Shortly 
afterwards a reduced power warning light illuminated. The repairing garage inspected the 
car again and said that they found metal filings in the fuel tank.
On the 9 November 2020, Mr B contacted Billing to let them know that there had been a 
major fault. The broker was also notified and it arranged for an independent report which 
was undertaken on the 25 November 2020. The mileage was 67,712.
The inspector said: We can conclude that the vehicle had suffered from a failed fuel pump 
due to a damaged fuel pipe, which had allowed the fuel pump to run dry causing metal to 
metal contact and build-up of metallic swarf blocking the fuel system and preventing the 
vehicle from starting.
This would not have been present at the point of finance inception.
Billings rejected Mr Bs claim and so he brought his complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. He took the view that 
Billings was responsible for repairing the damage since it happened so soon after the point 
of sale. He thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality if repairs costing some £6,000 were 
needed within six months
It didnt agree and said that damage due to wear and tear didnt mean the car was faulty at 
the point of sale. It noted there was no evidence that the repairs would cost £6,000. It said 
that our investigators view wasnt logical in that it suggested finance companies would be 
responsible for issues throughout the agreement.
It pointed out a new model would cost £37,340 and repairs would be more expensive. It 
didnt consider it right to disregard the independent expert report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
DRN-3109943Page 2 of 3The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Billings is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was relatively elderly and had covered an average mileage for its age. Mr B was 
able to drive it for some 3,500 miles before he encountered any problems. The inspector has 
said that the car couldnt have covered the additional 3,500 miles without the fuel system 
being in a serviceable state. He said that such failures leave no tell-tale signs until they 
develop and this most likely would have occurred in the final 500 miles.
So, we have an expert who says that the fault was unlikely to have been present at the point 
of sale. Against that we have a major failure occurring in six months. As I have noted above 
one of the issues I have to consider is the durability of the car. One would expect a car to 
last over 67,000 miles without a major failure.
The car will have been subject to wear and tear and I agree with the business that it would 
not be liable for issues that arise as a matter of routine wear and tear or for routine 
maintenance. However, it is possible for faults which are inherent to come to light some time 
after the point of sale. In this case they appeared within six months. That is a relatively short 
time for such a significant fault to appear.
So, given this short passage of time is it likely that the fault was inherent at the point of sale? 
A car is a complex piece of machinery and items will degrade and fail. Some faults that arise 
develop over time and it can be difficult to say if they had reached a point such that they 
could be regarded as being present at the point of sale.
As for the inspectors report I note he says that: It would appear that this vehicle s fuel pipe 
had corroded to the extent where the vehicle had run the pump dry thereby causing metal to 
metal contact allowing swarf to build up in the fuel pump causing pump failure preventing 
any fuel to passed through to the injectors to start the vehicle. I understand that corrosion to 
takes some time to develop and it is not something happens in the final 500 miles. However, 
the inspector says the faults would not have been developing at the point of sale.
In a follow up letter, the company which supplied the inspector said the vehicle could not 
have achieved 3,500 miles without the fuel system being in a serviceable state. The question 
this raises is whether the fault was manifesting itself at the time of sale which then caused 
the failure.
I have noted the references to the split pipe which had been repaired before the inspection 
took place. It notes that as it had been repaired no comment could be made on its relevance 
to the failure. However, it does point out that such pipes can deteriorate over time until they Page 3 of 3usually result in complete pressure failure.
So, the question I need to answer is would a reasonable person consider this car to be 
suitably durable given its age and mileage. Having given this much thought I have 
concluded, on balance, that the car wasnt sufficiently durable. It had a major failure after 
only covering less than 68,000 miles and being some six years old.
Putting things right
Mr B should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Billing Finance Ltd to:
refund Mr B any payments made after the 9 November 2020 and pay 8% annual
simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
end the agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car if necessary.
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit profile
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman