DRN-3491245
The complaint
Mr C complains about information given to him about a hire purchase agreement and fixed 
sum loan provided by BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (BMWFS).
He says he was told the agreements were paid off but was later told they werent.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr C acquired a car. He took a hire purchase agreement and a fixed sum 
loan from BMWFS to finance the cost.
Later, Mr C enquired about settling the agreements. In October 2021 BMWFS provided him 
with a settlement quote. 
Mr C then acquired another car and believed that as part the new finance arrangement the 
previous agreements were settled. BMWFS issued letters in November 2021 saying they no 
longer held a financial interest in the car. Mr C also says he was told this over the phone.
Then, a few days later, Mr C was told the amount paid to settle the finance wasnt enough, 
and that he still owed £434.48 on the hire purchase agreement and £88.11 on the fixed sum 
loan.
Mr C was unhappy with this and complained to BMWFS. It issued its final response in 
December 2021. It explained that the figures on the settlement quote provided included the 
October 2021 direct debits being applied to the accounts, which they werent. It said 
because of this, Mr C had been given incorrect information when he was told BMWFS no 
longer held a financial interest in the car.
BMWFS said it would credit the fixed sum loan account with £88.11 so no balance would be 
owed. And it said it would credit the hire purchase agreement with £34.48 to reduce the 
outstanding balance to £400.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. He said the issue had 
caused extreme stress and financial difficulty. He said BMWFS should write off the hire 
purchase agreement and reimburse him what hed paid towards it since the error.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, that while BMWFS had 
made a mistake, what it had done to put things right was fair and reasonable.
Mr C disagreed. He said the repayments he had agreed with BMWFS for the outstanding 
balance werent affordable and the debt should be written off. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr C complains about the administration of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I 
can consider Mr Cs complaint about BMWFS.
It isnt in dispute here that BMWFS gave Mr C incorrect information in relation to the 
accounts and told him it no longer had a financial interest in the car when it did. So, what I 
need to consider in this case is whether what it has done to put things right is fair and 
reasonable, or if it needs to do more.
I understand Mr C must have been surprised to discover he still owed money on the 
accounts when he thought they were repaid. But, I think the key point to make here is that 
they werent repaid. It isnt in dispute that the direct debits due for October 2021 werent 
made, when the settlement quote assumed they would be. In this particular case, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to write off the valid debt because Mr C was given 
incorrect information about it.
I can see that BMWFS have removed just over £120 from Mr Cs agreements as a gesture 
of goodwill. Thinking about everything in the round here, I think this is enough to reflect Mr C 
being given incorrect information and BMWFS do not need to take any further action.
I was sorry to hear Mr C say he was struggling financially. The repayment plan towards the 
outstanding balance is not the subject of this complaint and I make no finding about this. But, 
if it is unaffordable for him, then I suggest he contacts BMWFS directly to discuss this. I 
would politely remind BMWFS to treat his situation with forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman