DRN-4230474
The complaint
Mr M complains that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Heliodor Mortgages) had reported 
incorrect information about his unsecured loan to credit reference agencies over several 
years. Although Heliodor has accepted its mistake and it has made the necessary 
amendments to his credit file, Mr M remains unhappy because he says this has impacted his 
ability to re-mortgage over the years and thats not been taken into account when answering 
the complaint.
What happened
In or around July 2006, Mr M took out a 25-year interest only mortgage with Northern Rock 
plc for £108,000. At the same time as arranging the mortgage, Mr M also took out an 
unsecured Together loan for £26,000 to be repaid over 25 years. The Together loan was 
stapled to the main mortgage, and the total borrowing was therefore around £134,000. The 
mortgage and Together loan had the same interest rate while Mr M kept his mortgage with 
Northern Rock.
In July 2016 this was transferred by Northern Rock (at that time called NRAM plc) to NRAM 
Limited. In 2019, ownership of Mr Ms mortgage and Together loan changed to Topaz 
Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages (Heliodor).
On 25 February 2022 M contacted Heliodor to say that he thought information about his 
unsecured loan has been incorrectly reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). He 
said although his unsecured mortgage had been arrears for some time, he had payment 
arrangements in place that hed always met. But Heliodor was incorrectly reporting his 
account as being in unarranged arrears. Heliodor accepted it had made a mistake and it 
agreed to amend Mr Ms credit file - which happened by 10 March 2022. 
In August 2022 Mr M redeemed his mortgage with Heliodor and re-mortgaged with a 
different lender. Soon after he raised another complaint with Heliodor. He was unhappy with 
how Heliodor administered the redemption process. Mr M also referred to his previous 
complaint about Heliodors credit reporting. He said that the incorrect reporting had impacted 
his ability to re-mortgage over the years. Although Heliodor had agreed to amend his credit 
file, he didnt think it had properly compensated him for the full extent of the impact  during 
its initial investigation.
Heliodor upheld the complaint and offered Mr M £100 to compensate him for all aspects of 
his complaint. Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. He specifically asked our service to look into the credit 
reporting aspect of his complaint. He says that due to the incorrect information on his credit 
file, hes been unable to re-mortgage (on repayment terms) which has delayed his ability to 
repay his mortgage by the end of its term. As a resolution he wants Heliodor to write off the 
outstanding balance on his unsecured loan. 
An investigator looked into things and thought Heliodor had taken reasonable steps to put 
things right. He wasnt persuaded that hed seen enough to suggest Mr M was unable to re-
mortgage sooner, solely due to Heliodors actions. He said hed seen no evidence of 
declined mortgage applications for this reason and Mr Ms credit report showed other 
adverse information that could have also impacted a creditors lending decision. So, he didnt 
think Heliodor needed to do more in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree, he provided some information from his broker to support his complaint. 
The email chain shows that in around March 2021 Mr M was exploring his re-mortgage 
options. His broker has recently confirmed that due to Mr Ms credit reporting in 2021, it was 
considered unlikely that he would be accepted by another lender for a re-mortgage due to 
missed payments and arrears dating back to 2017. Mr M was advised to rebuild his credit file 
and score to show no arrears and a significant period where payments had been met, to 
have better success with an application. Mr M feels that the pure fact he was successfully 
able to re-mortgage after Heliodor amended his credit file is enough to suggest it was solely 
because of its incorrect reporting that he was prevented from obtaining a mortgage sooner.
The investigator considered the evidence, but his opinion remained the same. He said that 
even if Heliodor had correctly reported a payment arrangement, that in itself is considered 
adverse information that could impact a lending decision. He wasnt persuaded that 
Heliodors incorrect reporting was the only thing preventing Mr M from getting a new 
mortgage sooner. 
Mr M didnt accept the outcome and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. Heliodor has admitted it got things
wrong. So, the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things
right, including the amount of compensation it has offered, is fair and reasonable. Ive
carefully considered everything Mr M has said about how hes been impacted as a result of 
Heliodors actions and how he should be fairly compensated in the circumstances.
When making an award for compensation, I must decide whats fair and reasonable to both
sides involved giving careful consideration to all the circumstances of this case. I also think
its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate
consumers - not punish organisations. 
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award
for distress and inconvenience is warranted and to what extent.
During his complaint, Mr M has mentioned his inability to obtain a new mortgage with 
Heliodor or being offered the option of switching his mortgage to repayment terms. This isnt 
something that formed part of the complaint he raised with Heliodor. Because Heliodor has 
not yet had the opportunity to investigate these issues, its not something I can comment on 
in my decision. The basis of my decision solely focuses on the complaint Heliodor addressed 
in its final response letter dated 4 October 2022 and the specific point Mr M has asked our 
service to consider in relation to information being misreported on his credit file.
Ive considered all the submissions provided. Im satisfied that in around March 2021 Mr M 
was trying to re-mortgage with a different lender but the adverse information on his credit file 
appears to have prevented him from doing so. Ive not seen anything to suggest that he tried 
to re-mortgage sooner. Ive gone on to consider whether I can reasonably say that it was solely due to how Heliodor 
was reporting information to the CRAs on his unsecured loan that prevented Mr M from 
being able to re-mortgage in March 2021. 
Mr M has provided copies of his credit reports produced in 2022  before Heliodor made the 
amendments and just after.
Prior to Heliodor making the amendment, Mr Ms credit file was showing that his unsecured 
loan was in arrears by more than 6 months worth of payments for a large part of 2018 
through to 2021. I agree that this would have a significant impact on Mr M being able to 
obtain a mortgage, because to a lender that would show current financial difficulty. But I 
cant safely say that was the only information on Mr Ms credit file that prevented him from 
obtaining a mortgage. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms broker has confirmed that in March 2021, his credit file was showing missed 
payments and arrears dating back to 2017 with several creditors. 
Aside from how Heliodor was reporting information to the CRAs on Mr Ms unsecured loan, 
his credit file still showed missed payments and arrears on his mortgage and a credit card 
from 2018 through to 2021. Most importantly his mortgage was showing as being in arrears 
for a large part of 2018 and most of 2019. Any form of adverse information relating to how a 
mortgage account is managed is enough for a mortgage lender to decline lending  as it 
clearly suggests the consumer has in the recent years had trouble maintaining their 
mortgage payments. 
Mr Ms argument is that he was able to re-mortgage in August 2022, after Heliodor made the 
adjustments to his credit file, so he says surely that was the only thing preventing him from 
obtaining a mortgage in March 2021. I disagree. Around 16 months had passed since Mr M 
had tried to re-mortgage previously. That means that in March 2021 the arrears on his 
mortgage (and credit card) that Ive mentioned would have been more recent at that time 
and so would have had more impact. By August 2022, more time had passed since the 
period of financial difficulty, which meant some lenders would be more inclined to lend at that 
time. And, that extra year of adverse information from 2017 that Mr Ms broker had referred 
to, had also dropped off by that point showing a shorter period of financial difficulty too. 
To hold Heliodor responsible for Mr Ms inability to re-mortgage sooner, Id need to be able 
to safely say that there was no other adverse information on Mr Ms credit file that could 
have possibly prevented him from obtaining a mortgage in 2021, but for reasons Ive 
explained that was not the case here. As such I cannot say for certain that it was solely due 
to Heliodors incorrect reporting that Mr Ms credit score was impacted in March 2021. 
Putting things right
It's not in dispute that Heliodor made a mistake. When the issue was brought to its attention 
it accepted its error and applied to have the adverse information amended with the CRAs 
promptly and the changes were made within a reasonable timeframe of less than a month. 
Heliodor offered Mr M £100 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
caused by having to raise this issue and the other administration matters in relation to the 
redemption of his mortgage. Although the latter didnt form part of his complaint to our 
service, when considering everything and the fact that all mistakes were resolved promptly 
when raised, Im satisfied £100 fairly compensates Mr M. The offer amount is in line with our 
services general award banding and suitably reflects and recognises the level of 
inconvenience caused by having to deal with these issues. I wont be asking Heliodor to do anything more in the circumstances because for the reasons 
Ive explained, Im not persuaded its mistake has impacted Mr M to the extent he says. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Topaz Finance Limited (trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages) to pay Mr M £100 compensation, as it appears this is yet to be paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman