DRN-2940456
Complaint
Mr I, who is also complaining on behalf of the estate of his late mother, Mrs I, says that 
The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op), then trading as Britannia Building Society, 
mis-sold him a monthly premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
in July 1990.
Background
The mortgage was taken out in joint names but only Mr I was covered by the PPI. It 
covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr I says he paid for a policy he didnt need, was pressured into taking it, and it wasnt   
properly explained at the time. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and did not uphold it. Mr I did not accept this 
and asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision.
My findings
We have explained how we handle complaints about PPI on our website. I have used this 
approach in Mr Is case. I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide what is fair and reasonable.
I agree with our adjudicator that The Co-op did not mis-sell the policy to Mr I. I explain 
why below.
Mr I and The Co-op agree that the PPI was sold at a meeting. Although The Co-op did 
not make a recommendation about Mr I buying the PPI, it still had to make sure that the 
main features of the PPI were made clear so that he could decide whether he wanted to 
take the cover.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Is mortgage application form. In the PPI section of the form, Mr I 
showed that he wanted to take out PPI by ticking a box. Mr I also filled out a separate 
PPI application where he specified the amount of PPI cover he needed. He also provided 
a completed direct debit mandate so that the PPP premiums could be taken from his 
bank account. 
Mr I has suggested he was put under pressure to take out the cover. Thats something 
thats difficult to establish, especially after so many years. And Ive kept in mind that being 
told its a good idea to have the cover  which is often what happens - isnt the same as 
having no choice about taking it out. 
The Co-op has told us it provided Mr I with enough information about the PPI. Im not able to 
be certain about this because I cant tell if Mr I saw all the information he needed to see. 
However, even if he did, I am not convinced that Mr I would have acted any differently and 
decided not to take out the PPI. 
First, at the time of the sale Mr I was in good health and in full time employment. So Im 
satisfied that he was eligible for the policy. And I havent seen anything to suggest he 
would have been disadvantaged by any of the main exclusions or limitations in the 
policy.
Mr I has also told us he was entitled to receive up to 6 months of work benefit if he was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. He also told us he had some savings to fall back 
on. But if he made a successful claim the PPI would pay out for longer than  for up to 12 
months  and also in addition to his existing benefits. It would also avoid him having to fall 
back on his savings at what could be a difficult time financially. 
Mr I also told us about a separate insurance policy and provided us with some details. Ive 
seen that this would have paid out under certain circumstances in the event of serious injury 
or death. So its a different type of insurance to PPI, which provides cover for accident and 
sickness that leads to time off work, or loss of job. 
The PPI provided cover of up to £250 per month. The monthly premium was around £12, 
so I dont think that Mr I would have found the PPI to be too expensive.
It follows that I think that the PPI gave Mr I a useful additional benefit to help protect his 
home if he was unable to pay the mortgage.
It follows that, having looked at this case with care, I dont think PPI was mis-sold. I think 
The Co-op gave Mr I a choice of whether to take the PPI cover or not.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman