DRN-3711075
The complaint
Mr T complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited have incorrectly calculated and issued a 
settlement figure for his conditional sale agreement, which has adversely impacted his credit 
file and financial situation.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr T acquired a new car using a conditional sale agreement from Hyundai 
Capital UK Limited (Hyundai). The cash price of the car was £27,442.78. Mr T made an 
advance payment of £16,750, so the total amount financed on this agreement was 
£10,672.78 payable over 48 Months.
Mr T complained that two payments he made to towards his finance agreement didnt bring 
the account balance to zero as hed expected.
In September 2021 Mr T says he requested the balance of his finance agreement so he 
could check the interest calculations. Mr T says he was thinking about settling the 
agreement.
Mr T says Hyundai incorrectly calculated the interest on his settlement amount, so he made 
a payment of £9,870.19, over two payments, as that was what he believed the correct 
amount was. However, Hyundai said Mr T had a shortfall of around £100 remaining before 
the loan could be settled. 
Mr T complained to Hyundai to dispute the outstanding balance and about the impact the 
situation has had on his credit file.
In June 2022 Hyundai issued their final response to Mr Ts complaint. They didnt uphold the 
complaint as they believe the settlement figure they provided was correct.
Unhappy with their decision Mr T brought his complaint to this service for investigation. In an 
email to our investigator, Hyundai confirmed that theyd waived the outstanding balance on 
Mr Ts agreement and amended his credit file to reflect the zero balance. However, Mr T 
remained unhappy with the time hed spent dealing with the issue, the impact the situation 
already had on his credit file and the inconvenience caused. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Ts complaint and didnt think Hyundai needed to take any action, as he believed 
theyd acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mr T said the balance he requested from Hyundai was the statement balance as opposed to 
the settlement balance, and so Hyundai shouldnt have applied any additional interest to the 
amount, particularly as it wasnt specified in the agreement. Mr T asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In his response to our investigators view, Mr T agreed the calculations of the settlement 
figure issued by Hyundai complies with the Consumer Credit Act (early settlement) 
regulations 2004 (CCA). So, Im satisfied the complaint isnt about how Hyundai calculated 
the settlement amount; rather the impact caused as a result of Hyundai issuing Mr T with a 
settlement figure to repay instead of a statement balance.
So, Ive focussed my decision on whether I think Hyundai acted fairly and reasonably by 
issuing the settlement figure to Mr T, and how they treated him following his two payments 
totalling £9,870.19.
During a phone call between Mr T and Hyundai in September 2021, Mr T disputed the 
settlement balance Hyundai had provided him with for his agreement. Mr T said it differed 
from his calculations by around £150.
During the call Mr T said weve gone online to fully pay off and settle the outstanding 
amount and its £150 roughly more than it is on our calculations.the agent then responded 
with Ill give you the settlement figure I generated myself 
Having listened to the phone call, I think it was reasonable for Hyundai to proceed with a 
discussion around a settlement figure, with the purpose of Mr T settling his finance 
agreement. Thats because Mr T made it clear in his introduction that he was looking to fully 
pay off and settle the outstanding balance of his agreement. When the agent referred to the 
figure being a settlement figure, and later with added interest, and an interest rebate, Mr T 
didnt correct the agent or clarify that he was only wanting a statement balance. 
I acknowledge Mr T said in his complaint form that he was inadvertently using the term 
settlement in error, Im not persuaded Hyundai would reasonably have been aware of this 
as Mr T continued to talk about settling his agreement. So, Im satisfied that Hyundai were 
acting reasonably by generating a settlement figure for the purpose of Mr T settling his 
finance agreement.
Towards the end of the phone call with Hyundai, despite being referred to the calculations 
within the CCA, Mr T advised he was going to pay what he thought was the correct amount 
and cancel his direct debit. Hyundai confirmed a similar exchange took place in October 
2021 when Mr T requested a further settlement figure. Hyundai said they advised Mr T that 
the amount hed calculated wasnt correct, and hed be liable for any shortfall on the 
agreement.
Hyundai advised that following the payments being made by Mr T, they corresponded with 
him to advise of the outstanding amount. Hyundai said as Mr T made no further payments, 
they actioned a partial settlement from what Mr T had paid and revised the monthly 
repayments to £2.60 per month for the remaining term. However, Hyundai advised the 
account then fell into arrears as Mr T had cancelled his direct debit.Clause 2.8 of Mr Ts finance agreement says: If you repay the amount of the credit early, in 
part, under clause 2.7 above we may reduce the repayments in order to preserve the 
duration of this agreement and will notify you of the new repayments in writing.
In consideration of this, Im satisfied that Hyundai acted fairly in accepting Mr Ts payment as 
a partial settlement, and by revising his monthly repayments so they could be spread over 
the remaining term of the agreement.
I acknowledge Mr T says he was told thered be no penalty to early settle the agreement and 
has provided us with an email from Hyundai confirming it. I also recognise that Mr T 
considers the added interest as a penalty which is not specified in the finance agreement 
itself. However, under the CCA, the settlement date is not described or presented as a 
penalty, rather a timescale in which the lender is able to set as a date for settlement. All 
things considered, Im satisfied that Hyundai has calculated their settlement figure as per the 
CCA, which I consider to be appropriate for Hyundai to have done in the circumstances. 
As Mr T disputed Hyundais settlement amounts, he cancelled his direct debit which meant 
the remaining payments werent taken, so his account fell into arrears. I dont see how 
Hyundai have acted or treated Mr T unfairly in these circumstances. I recognise that having 
made a significant payment towards the agreement it may seem severe to consider Mr Ts 
account was in arrears. However, from the evidence provided Im satisfied Mr T was 
reasonably informed about the potential for arrears and impact to his credit file for not paying 
the outstanding amounts.  
I acknowledge Mr T feels strongly that there has been a wider impact to his finances as a 
result of Hyundais actions, however as Ive found that theyve acted fairly, I wont be asking 
them to take any action in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Hyundai Capital UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman