DRN-4087748
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim he made for subsidence 
damage to a property he owns.
What happened
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  acting as 
representatives or agents of either Mr H or Fairmead. But for ease of reference, Ill only refer 
to Mr H and Fairmead by name in this decision  even when referring to the actions or 
arguments of their representatives.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr H is unhappy that Fairmead initially accepted a 
claim he made for subsidence damage to a HMO property he owns, before later declining it 
based on an incorrect exclusion. 
Fairmead accepted that the exclusion it initially relied on didnt apply to Mr Hs policy. But it 
maintained its decision to decline the claim as it says all the damage predates inception of 
its policy. Mr H feels Fairmead has been deliberately trying to avoid paying his claim from 
the outset. Hes also unhappy that hes been expected to pick up the cost of correcting the 
investigation works carried out prior to Fairmead deciding to decline the claim.
Our investigator initially said that Fairmead would need to cover any damage which had 
happened since it had been on risk. And she said it was for Fairmead to demonstrate which 
damage was pre-inception. However, following her first assessment, Fairmead provided 
further comments and evidence from its loss adjuster which persuaded our investigator that 
all of the damage was most likely pre-inception. So, she said Fairmeads decision to decline 
the claim was fair. But she recommended Fairmead pay Mr H £200 compensation for its 
poor handling of the claim, including relying on the wrong exclusion to decline the claim 
initially.  
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Fairmead initially accepted the claim, nor that it sought to rely on an 
exclusion not applicable to Mr Hs policy to decline the claim in the first instance. What 
remains in dispute is whether Fairmeads final decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable, in light of the available evidence, and what a fair amount of compensation 
should be to recognise the impact of the errors it made during the claims process. Ill 
address each in turn.
The claim decision
Fairmead declined the claim on the basis that all of the damage at Mr Hs property predates 
inception of its policy. It says the policy requires Mr H to take action to prevent loss or 
damage, yet he hadnt carried out any structural works in his 33 years owning the property. 
The policy also contains exclusions for damage which predates the policy and damage 
which happened gradually, both of which Fairmead says would apply to this claim.
Fairmeads conclusions are based on a combination of the monitoring results taken by 
Mr Hs loss assessor, and the inspections of the damage taken by its appointed engineer 
and its loss adjuster, who has said:
The cracking to the walls of the entry staircase were 3 to 4mm wide prior to the 
plaster being locally removed. This revealed cracks to the underlying masonry of 
18mm

We were advised that the entry staircase and entrance lobby were last decorated 
circa 2015, with the wall paper (sic) being cut to the profile of the distorted door 
heads to the ground floor flats; flats 1& 2. There are no signs of distress or 
movement to either the distorted door heads or the wallpaper, suggesting that there 
has not been any movement since the area was decorated in 2015.
The policyholder advised that he had not undertaken and (sic) structural or 
replastering works within his ownership of approximately 33 years.
Investigation within the sub-floor void of the entry lobby revealed significant and 
historic packing on top of the brickwork sleeper walls which support the suspended 
timber floor

Drainage is situated along the right flank of the property so is not a causal factor.
The decorative history of the entry lobby and staircase, along with the policyholders 
confirmation that no structural or replastering works have been undertaken within his 
ownership, confirm that there is significant historic damage, which predates inception 
of our policy.
In addition to the above, Fairmead has highlighted that the monitoring results obtained by 
Mr Hs loss assessor showed the property was stable. I havent seen these results first-hand, 
but from the contemporaneous evidence I have seen about these results, Im satisfied that 
they indicated the property was stable.
Im aware that Mr H, and his loss assessor, have said the type of monitoring they carried out 
was basic and that the stability readings could be incorrect if plaster near areas of damage 
had debonded from the structure or if the monitoring tags were in the wrong locations. But I 
note it was the loss assessor who carried out the monitoring, so it would have been 
incumbent upon them to ensure that the plaster was sufficiently bonded in the areas which 
they decided to monitor. If they werent satisfied with the reliability of the method, I fail to see 
why they would complete such monitoring.If Mr H wishes to, he is free to instruct more detailed monitoring at his own cost. Should this 
show progressive subsidence movement, he should submit the results to Fairmead and I 
would expect it to consider the new evidence, and to potentially reconsider its claim decision 
including whether it should cover the cost of that monitoring. But based on the monitoring 
readings currently available, coupled with the various other indicators of stability captured in 
the various reports (and summarised within the loss adjusters quote above), Im persuaded, 
on balance, that the property was most likely stable prior to inception of Mr Hs policy and 
that it remains so.
I also note that an area of damage to the right-hand flank wall was determined, by the 
engineer, to be the result of a lack of lateral restraint, rather than downward movement of the 
land beneath the building (subsidence). And damage resulting from lateral movement isnt 
covered by the policy.
This means Im persuaded that all the damage being claimed for either isnt covered under 
the terms of the policy or happened before Fairmead was on risk. Therefore, I consider it is 
fair and reasonable for Fairmead to refuse to cover the claim.
Im aware that Fairmead undertook and/or authorised some stripping out and investigative 
works prior to reaching its claim decision. But given the need for significant structural repairs 
at the property, which I dont think Fairmead is responsible for, I dont think Fairmead needs 
to cover the cost of making this right. I say this because, in order for Mr H to properly repair 
the property, that stripping out work would always have been necessary and so is a cost that 
Mr H would always have needed to bear.
Compensation
Mr Hs claim has taken a significant length of time to reach this point. It was first reported in 
February 2020, accepted in April 2021 then declined in January 2022. However, some of the 
time taken has been unavoidable, for example delays due to access issues as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic and the time it took for site investigations and monitoring to be 
completed. However, I have considered the impact of the overall time taken when deciding a 
fair amount of compensation.
In addition to the time taken, Fairmead has caused Mr H a significant loss of expectation by 
initially confirming acceptance of his claim, only to later decline it. However, Im aware that 
the decision to decline the claim was only made when new information came to light 
following the additional stripping of plaster. Fairmead has also caused Mr H understandable 
distress and inconvenience by relying on a non-applicable policy exclusion to decline his 
claim in the first instance and maintaining that this was correct until the complaint was 
referred to our service. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact of Fairmeads overall handling of Mr Hs claim and 
balanced it against those parts which were unavoidable or not due to an error on Fairmeads 
part. Having done so, I think Fairmead should pay Mr H £200. I think this amount is sufficient 
to fairly compensate Mr H for the impact of the issues which Fairmead is wholly responsible 
for.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay Mr H £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman