DRN-3961649
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mrs A hold jointly with Bank of 
Scotland plc (BOS). It was due for repayment in 2022, and BOS has turned down her 
request for a term extension.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs A and BOS. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all parties, 
and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs A being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mrs As mortgage term was extended in 2007, and was due to expire in November 2022. In 
2009, 2014 and 2015, Mrs A asked for the term to be extended, but on each occasion, BOS 
said no. Mrs A again asked for a term extension in 2022, as the expiry date was 
approaching; BOS again said no. When Mrs A complained to this service, our investigator 
explained to her that wed only be able to consider the term extension refusal from 2022, due 
to the time limits on our rules. 
Mrs A didnt agree so her case was referred to an ombudsman who issued a jurisdiction 
decision in January 2023. In that decision, the ombudsman confirmed that Mrs A had waited 
too long under our rules to complain about the events of 2009, 2014 and 2015, and she 
wasnt persuaded exceptional circumstances had caused the delay.
The case was then passed back to the investigator to look into the decision to refuse a term 
extension in 2022. She wasnt persuaded BOS had treated Mrs A unfairly, so didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs A has asked for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, but not the same one that issued the jurisdiction decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. 
First of all, Mrs A is entitled to have her complaint decided by an ombudsman, but Im afraid 
shes not entitled to dictate which ombudsman that should be.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
That remit means that we revisit jurisdiction at every stage in our case-handling process, so 
in that context, Ive looked at what my ombudsman colleague said about our remit to 
consider the complaint. Having done so, I agree entirely with her decision, and the reasons 
she gave for reaching it. The ombudsman did inadvertently reference Halifax (one of BOS 
trading names) in her decision. It doesnt materially affect the outcome of the case; 
nonetheless, it shouldnt have happened, and I apologise to Mrs A on behalf of the 
ombudsman. I now turn to the merits of the complaint about the events of 2022.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mrs A borrowed money from BOS, and under the terms of her 
agreement with BOS, was due to repay the money in November 2022. No one is entitled to 
borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not automatically entitled to 
more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must treat customers fairly. 
In the context of an application for a term extension, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what mortgage regulation 
requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public.
BOS has said it will only consider granting a term extension where the borrower can 
evidence a suitable repayment strategy for the entire balance. The only provision Mrs A has 
for repaying the full balance is the sale of the mortgaged property. BOS doesnt consider that 
acceptable, other than a 12-month grace period after the mortgage expiry to allow a sale or 
a re-mortgage to another lender to proceed. In the current regulatory climate, thats neither 
unfair nor unreasonable. 
BOS also considered whether a switch to capital repayment might be affordable for Mrs A. 
The result of its affordability assessment was unfavourable, and whilst I understand how 
upsetting Mrs A has found that, its a decision that is consistent with BOS lending criteria, 
which in turn are shaped by FCA regulations. 
In summary, both lending decisions  not to extend the term of the interest-only mortgage or 
convert the mortgage to capital repayment and extend the term  were commercial 
judgements for BOS to make. Insofar as neither decision was inconsistent with the banks 
lending policy and current regulatory requirements, theres no reasonable grounds for me to 
second-guess BOS judgement. I fully understand that Mrs A has found both decisions 
unwelcome, but they werent unfair, and that is the test I have to apply. 
Whilst the case has been with us, the mortgage term has now expired, and as I understand 
it, Mrs A is looking to repay the capital by taking out a mortgage with another lender. Its 
likely BOS will give Mrs A more time for that process to conclude; as Ive already alluded to, 
in its final response of October 2022, BOS said that it can provide up to 12 months grace 
from the expiry of the mortgage. But to be clear, that is discretionary, and not something the 
business must do. 
BOS could also give consideration to a proposal Mrs A has mentioned whereby she could 
reduce the mortgage balance in part, with the aim of making the remaining mortgage 
affordable on a capital repayment basis. That too would be a matter for BOS to assess in 
accordance with its lending criteria. If she hasnt already done so, Mrs A would need to make 
that request of BOS formally, and to be clear, nothing I say here obliges BOS to do more 
than consider it, and nothing of that nature should be inferred.I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from her submissions how important this is to Mrs A. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as she is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I dont find that BOS has treated Mrs A unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman