DRN-2589137
The complaint
Mr D complains about the sale of three mobile phone insurance policies by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd. His representatives say the policy was mis-sold because he didnt want or 
need the insurance, he thought the policy was compulsory and he was pressured into taking 
out insurance.
What happened
Mr D took out his first insurance policy in February 2015. The policy was cancelled in 
December 2018. During that time he made five claims on his policy.
When the policy was cancelled Carphone Warehouse refunded 13 months of premium
payments as Mr D said the policy should have been cancelled during a previous upgrade. At 
that time he received just under £200.
The second policy was sold in November 2017 and covered a different phone. Mr D made
two claims on this policy, which he then cancelled in August 2019.
The third policy was sold in August 2019 for another phone. 
Mr D complained through his solicitors to Carphone Warehouse and then to this service.
Our investigator said it was likely there were failings in the way Carphone Warehouse 
assessed the suitability of the insurance for Mr D. But he said the value of the successful 
claims on two of the policies was more than the amounts hed paid in premiums, meaning 
we potentially wouldnt need to consider mis-sale of these as no refund would be due. And 
he said even if Carphone Warehouse didnt provide Mr D with appropriate information, it was 
unlikely that having further details would have affected his decision to take the policies. He 
was satisfied Mr D would have gone ahead even if things had been made clear and didnt 
think the policies were unsuitable for him. He didnt think there was evidence showing Mr D 
was pressured into buying the insurance.
For these reasons the investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Ds solicitors had also raised some concerns about the way Carphone Warehouse dealt 
with the complaint. The investigator explained that we couldnt look at complaint handling in 
isolation, as this would not be a complaint about the provision of or failure to provide a 
financial service. We could consider this where its ancillary to something else that we can 
investigate, but that wasnt the case here; the regulated activity relating to the sale of the 
policies had concluded many years before the complaint was made.
Carphone Warehouse accepted the investigators view but Mr D didnt. His solicitors 
maintain that the cover wasnt suitable for Mr D, who didnt want it and only bought the 
policies because he thought it was compulsory and he was pressured into taking out 
insurance. So its come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds solicitors have referred to an investigation into Carphone Warehouses sales 
practices by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA investigation found there were 
failings in how Carphone Warehouse sold insurance between 2008 and 2015. The solicitors 
say the outcome of that investigation was that Carphone Warehouse agreed to provide 
redress to all affected customers and Mr D falls into that category, so he should be refunded 
the premiums he paid for his policies.
In its report, the FCA agreed to reduce the fine imposed on Carphone Warehouse because it
had agreed to provide redress for affected customers. Not all of Mr Ds policies were sold 
during that period. In any event, theres still the question of who is an affected customer. In 
addressing this question our normal approach is to consider:
whether there has been a failing by a business and, if so,
whether (and how) the person bringing the complaint has been affected by that.
If I conclude that there were flaws in a sales process but a consumer would still have bought 
the policy anyway, they wont necessarily have lost out as a result of those failings. So I 
need to consider not just whether Carphone Warehouse did something wrong, but whether 
Mr D would have acted differently but for any failing, and suffered any loss or harm as a 
result.
As our investigator explained, we cant look at complaint handling in isolation  only where 
its ancillary to something else that we can investigate. That wasnt the case here; the 
regulated activity relating to the sale of the policies had concluded many years before the 
complaint was made. So Ive only considered the sales of the policies.
The benefit Mr D has already received
If I conclude that a policy was mis-sold I need to consider what position the consumer would 
have been in if there hadnt been a mis-sale. This could mean I ask the seller to refund the
premiums if I think the consumer wouldnt have bought the policy. And if so, I would usually 
require it to add simple interest at 8% to reflect the loss of use of that money. But in
thinking about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I might say the business
is entitled to take into account the benefit a consumer has received from that policy. Thats
because if the consumer hadnt taken out a policy then they couldnt have received that 
benefit from it.
Mr D made a number of successful claims on the first two policies he took out. So I need to 
take into account what hes received when considering whether hes suffered a loss as a 
result of any mis-sale (if there was one).
Policy 1
From the information Ive seen Mr D paid a total of around £700 in premiums. But he 
received a refund of around £200 (because the policy should have cancelled earlier, not 
because it was mis-sold). So the amount hes actually paid is just over £500. And hes made 
claims on the policy with a total value of more than £500. Although Mr D has received more 
than he paid for the policy, if I were to uphold the complaint I would normally recommend 
that Carphone Warehouse add interest at 8% to the refund of premiums. That could mean 
that the redress due was more than the benefit he received from the policy. So I do need to 
consider the merits of his complaint about this sale.Policy 2
The total premiums Mr D paid was around £350. But he made two successful claims on this 
policy for a total value of more much than that. So the benefit he received far outweighs the 
premiums he paid. Even if I conclude policy 2 was mis-sold, Mr D has already received more 
in benefit and in these circumstances I wouldnt ask Carphone Warehouse to make a refund 
to him (even taking into account the interest that would be added to any refund of premiums, 
hes still benefitted more than he has paid).
Mr Ds representatives have suggested this approach is unfair because it wasnt Carphone 
Warehouse that paid out for these claims  the insurer did. They say Carphone Warehouse 
shouldnt benefit from a mis-sale by retaining the premiums. Carphone Warehouse would 
have received a financial benefit from the premiums for this policy, but the key issue for me 
to decide is not what the impact on Carphone Warehouse has been but whether Mr D has 
been put back in the position he would have been if there had been no failing. Even if 
policy 2 was mis-sold that hasnt resulted in a financial loss to him. So I dont need to 
consider policy 2 further  theres no loss that might need to be put right. 
So I will just go on to consider the policies 1 and 3.
Were policies 1 and 3 suitable?
When selling the insurance, Carphone Warehouse was required to provide customers with 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy. And as these were advised sales, 
it was also required to take reasonable steps to ensure the insurance was suitable for Mr D. 
This would include thinking about whether he had a need for it and whether he had cover 
elsewhere that could provide the same benefits.
The sale of policy 1 fell within the period covered by the FCA report. One of the things the 
FCA found was that the sales consultants were not trained adequately to assess a 
customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. And they were trained in 
objection handling, which the FCA pointed out undermined the advised sales process.
So I think its likely there were failings in how Carphone Warehouse assessed the suitability 
of this policy for Mr D. However, even if thats the case it doesnt look as though the policy 
was in fact unsuitable for his needs. It was recommended at the time he bought a new 
mobile phone and provided cover for accidental damage, theft, loss and breakdown. I 
havent seen evidence to show Mr D had alternative cover elsewhere that provided
similar benefits. And the fact he made a number of successful claims on this policy supports 
that. It doesnt look like Mr D was significantly affected by any of the things the policy didnt 
cover. The cost was around £14 a month. Mr D agreed to that cost and paid it, and he hasnt 
suggested it was unaffordable for him. Taking all of this into account, I dont think this policy 
was unsuitable for him.
Even if Carphone Warehouse didnt provide him with clear, fair and not misleading
information about the policy, for the same reasons Ive already explained I dont think having
further details of what it covered would have affected his decision making.
Policy 3 fell outside of the period covered by the FCA report, but Mr Ds representatives
believe Carphone Warehouses sales practices meant that consumers were still sold policies
where they already had cover in place elsewhere. Ive kept this in mind when considering 
this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of a demands and needs assessment completed at the time. This asks 
whether Mr D had alternative cover and so whether he had a need for this policy. In the assessment completed during the sale, Mr D confirmed he had no alternative cover in place 
and that he required the insurance. I havent seen anything to show he did have cover 
elsewhere and I think thats supported by the fact he made a number of successful claims on 
the policies he previously held with Carphone Warehouse.
Again, I dont think Mr D was significantly affected by any of the things the policy didnt
cover. And the cost of this policy was £17 a month, which he agreed to and has continued to 
pay. I havent seen anything to show that was unaffordable for him. As Mr D appears to have
had a need for cover, I dont think Carphone Warehouse did anything wrong in  
recommending this policy to him either. And while I cant be sure Carphone Warehouse met 
his information needs, as I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont think having more 
information about it would have affected his decision to take it out.
Was the optional nature of the policies made clear?
For both sales Mr Ds representatives say he didnt want the insurance, but he was told it
was compulsory in order to obtain technical support.
I can see the insurance did include technical support. But Carphone Warehouse told us it 
would also have been possible for Mr D to take out a policy that didnt include insurance 
cover (paid for by monthly subscription) or to pay for a specific service (for example data 
transfer) as a one off payment. It says its adviser would have discussed these options with 
him and information about these products was also displayed in store. There was a leaflet on  
Tech Support and a separate leaflet which said Insurance and Support for your mobile. So 
there was information about the different types of cover. 
However, the FCA report found there was a key focus by advisers on the technical
support features offered by the insurance product. Given the findings of the report, its 
possible Mr D might have been told he could only access these services if he took out the 
policy, or that the adviser didnt make the distinction clear to him. And Mr D may well have 
paid more attention to what he was told by the adviser than any leaflets that were available 
in store.
But even if it wasnt made clear to Mr D that he could have technical support without taking 
the insurance, I think he had a need for cover. Thats supported by the number of claims that 
he made on these policies. I also think the policies were affordable for him. And I havent 
seen evidence to show the sole reason Mr D took out these policies was to obtain technical 
support. So I think its most likely he would have taken out the insurance even if hed known 
he could obtain technical support without doing so. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr D knew he could buy a phone without getting the 
insurance. The documents from both sales say taking out the policy is not compulsory with 
the purchase of your phone. For the 2015 sale Mr D signed alongside that statement and 
for the 2019 sale he signed underneath it.
A signed insurance certificate doesnt necessarily mean the adviser made the optional 
nature of the policy clear. And I appreciate the FCA report did refer to cancellation calls 
where customers said theyd been told the insurance was compulsory. But Mr D hasnt 
provided any detailed testimony which makes me think that actually happened in this case; 
when our investigator spoke to him he confirmed he didnt have anything to add to the 
general points his representatives had made. So, based on the information available to me, 
Im dont think Carphone Warehouse has done something wrong here.
Mr Ds representatives also say that for both sales he was pressured into taking out the 
policies. They havent given any more detail of his recollections of the sales. I think it would be reasonable for Carphone Warehouse to explain the positive and negative implications of 
cover. To conclude that Carphone Warehouse had inappropriately pressured Mr D into 
taking out insurance Id need to be satisfied that the way it was presented to him meant that, 
although he knew it was optional, in reality he had little choice but to take it out. I havent 
seen evidence to persuade me thats what happened here.
Summary
While there may have been failings in Carphone Warehouses sales process I think that 
without these Mr D would still have taken out the cover. So I dont think hes lost out as a 
result, or that he was sold insurance that wasnt suitable for him or was inappropriately 
pressured into buying the policy, not knowing it was optional.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman