DRN-3601049
The complaint
Companies that Ill refer to as C1 and C2 are joint policyholders. They have complained that 
Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to both companies together as C. 
Mr F, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf. 
What happened
C held an Executive Professions insurance policy with Covea. C claimed on their policy after 
their businesses were impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
Covea turned down Cs claim as they didnt think the policy provided cover. 
C brought their complaint to our service and provided a detailed explanation of why their 
claim should be covered. In summary, C said that their businesses didnt involve physical 
goods and, as loss was included in the definition for damage, clauses covering a loss 
should cover their loss of business. C also thought that their claim should be paid under the 
clause for compulsory closure. C said that while Covid-19 wasnt included in the list of 
covered diseases, viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) was included and that was caused by a 
range of viruses and had similar symptoms to Covid-19.  
C said that the policy should be interpreted as it would be by a reasonable person with all 
the background knowledge that would reasonably be available to them at the time they 
entered into the contract and that any ambiguity should be read in Cs favour.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for their claim. 
C asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Cs business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Cs claim.
C have made a number of detailed points and Id like to reassure C that I have considered 
them all. However, Im not going to address them all in this decision and will instead focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
Damage
In particular, C have referred to the clause for unspecified suppliers as they think this should 
cover their claim. This provides cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of damage at 
the premises of your direct suppliers, manufacturers or processors of 
components, goods or materials anywhere within the territorial limits.
The policy defines damage as loss, destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded
For this to provide cover, the interruption or interference with Cs business would need to be 
in consequence of loss, destruction or damage at the premises of Cs suppliers. I recognise 
that C doesnt deal with physical goods and that this is an Executive Professions policy, but 
this doesnt prevent a physical loss or damage occurring at the premises of their suppliers 
which could impact Cs business.
In reaching a decision, Ive taken account of what I consider to be relevant law, including
Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands 
Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348. I recognise that C disagrees, but I also 
consider that TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm) (TKC 
London) is relevant despite the inclusion of a comma within the definition of damage in 
Coveas policy. 
In TKC London the judge said:
the word loss takes its colour from its context. In the Property Damage 
Section, the immediate context for the word loss includes the words 
destruction and damage. That, in my judgment, provides a pointer that loss 
here is intended to refer to physical rather than economic loss
I consider that, for damage, as defined by the policy, to have occurred, there would need to 
be a physical change or altered state to property at Cs suppliers premises, which made it 
less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist 
cleaning was required to remove the cause of potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in the premises 
of Cs suppliers. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare 
settings doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist and the presence of any particular 
virus doesnt automatically amount to damage. So Im not persuaded that the interruption or 
interference to Cs business was as a result of damage at the premises of their suppliers. 
Ive considered Cs point about how they think a reasonable policyholder would interpret the 
word loss within the definition of damage. However, Im not persuaded that a reasonable 
policyholder entering into the contract would have understood that including loss in the 
definition of damage would include a loss of work from suppliers, when the loss is required to 
be at the premises of the suppliers.
Ive also considered other clauses within Cs policy which require damage, but I dont think 
these provide cover for Cs claim either. The clause for contract sites provides cover for interruption or interference to Cs business 
as a result of damage at sites at which C is contracted to work. The clause for prevention of 
access covers interruption or interference to Cs business as a result of damage to property 
within one kilometre of their premises which prevents or hinders the use of or prevents 
access to Cs premises. However, for the reasons set out above, I dont consider that these 
provide cover for Cs claim as I havent seen anything to persuade me that the interruption or 
interference with Cs business was due to damage at a site they were contracted to work at 
or to property within one kilometre of their premises which prevented or hindered the use of 
or prevented access to Cs premises. Therefore, I think Covea acted fairly and reasonably in 
finding these clauses didnt provide cover for Cs claim. 
Compulsory closure
This provides cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises
 
The policys definition of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease sets out a list of 
covered diseases, which doesnt include Covid-19. Given Covid-19 might not have been in 
existence at the time the policy was drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of 
diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which cover all notifiable diseases as 
set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Cs policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. There is nothing in the wording of the policy 
which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge, and the 
policy says that no other disease shall be added without Coveas prior written consent. So, I 
dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
Ive thought about Cs point that VHF should cover Covid-19 but I dont think it does. I 
havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 is considered a VHF and in the 
Governments updated list of notifiable diseases Covid-19 and VHF are listed separately, 
indicating that they are different diseases. Moreover, if the intention of the policy was for 
VHF to cover other viruses then the list would be redundant. Therefore, I dont think VHF 
includes Covid-19 and think Covea have acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this 
doesnt cover Cs claim. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Covea to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman