DRN-3427375
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her mortgage payment 
protection insurance.
What happened
Mrs H was sold the PPI at around the same time as arranging the mortgage in 1991.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Where there is limited information, such as in this case, I make my decision based on the 
evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
BoS no longer has any paperwork available from the time of the sale, which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place, especially as the mortgage account itself has been closed 
for some years. To be clear to Mrs H, it is not that BoS necessarily maintained poor records, 
its that it had previously disposed of closed records in accordance with data protection 
practice.
Mrs H says she was led to believe that the PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage 
borrowing. She says that, when she found out in 1993 that it wasnt compulsory, she 
cancelled it immediately.
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally presented 
as optional. I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case.
Ive no doubt that Mrs H has provided her genuine recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory of the sale has 
faded. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs H has said. However, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that the policy being cancelled in 1993 shows that Mrs H thought that she had to 
take it out at the time of sale. I know Mrs H will disagree with this but, overall, I consider it is 
more likely than not that she decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if 
she no longer remembers doing so.
Its likely that BoS advised Mrs H to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to 
her, it needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Mrs Hs employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was off sick. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. Mrs H has said that her 
partner, now husband, would have helped. But having the PPI would have avoided the need 
to ask him for money and for him to have to pay her mortgage as well as his own. It seems 
to me that Mrs H had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would 
have been a difficult time. Therefore, it was reasonable of BoS to recommend that she buy it.
Mrs H says that, when she cancelled the policy in 1993, BoS refunded her two months 
premiums in recognition that the policy wasnt appropriate for her and that it was therefore 
mis-sold. If BoS had accepted that the policy was unsuitable, then I would have expected it 
to refund all of the premiums. The refunding of two months worth of premiums does not 
strike me as an acknowledgement that the PPI was mis-sold. As our adjudicator has 
mentioned, it is most likely that the refund was in recognition that the policy was not 
cancelled at the first time of asking. Mrs H says she doubts that BoS would have allowed her 
to cancel the policy if she had simply changed her mind about wanting it. However, Im 
satisfied that the policy could be cancelled at any time at the policyholders request, in line 
with all such monthly paid policies.
BoS also needed to provide Mrs H with sufficient information for her to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for her. I think Mrs H would have known 
something about it  that it would cover her mortgage repayments in the event that she was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Its possible that BoS didnt 
provide as much information as it could have, particularly about the things that policy didnt 
cover. But Mrs H was not affected by any of those things. For example she did not have a 
pre-existing medical condition that would have limited her ability to make a successful claim. 
As I consider that Mrs H had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I doubt that more 
information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off as a result of 
anything BoS may have done wrong, so there is nothing that BoS needs to do to put things 
right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman