DRN-3884047
The complaint
Mrs S complains that errors by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Bristol & West) meant 
she didnt secure a new product for her mortgage before interest rates increased.
What happened
Mrs Ss interest rate product was due to expire on 30 September 2022. In early September 
2022 she saw there was a product available with a fixed interest rate of 3.65%. 
Mrs S made overpayments to her mortgage account between late August and 6 September 
2022. She wanted to check her updated balance and monthly payments before applying for 
the product. 
Mrs S says there were delays in her balance being updated. She contacted Bristol & West 
on 8 September 2022. By that time the product shed intended to take out had been 
withdrawn. Mrs S says shell struggle with the higher monthly payments.
Our investigator said, in summary, Bristol & West was entitled to withdraw products at any 
time. There was no need for Mrs S to wait until her balance had been updated before 
applying for a new product.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bristol & Wests records say that Mrs S contacted it in April 2022 to check when her product 
was due to expire, the follow-on interest rate and her 10% overpayment allowance. 
Mrs S made several overpayments between 30 August 2022 and 6 September 2022. She 
says she identified the interest rate product she wanted to take out, but wanted to wait for 
her balance to be updated so she could see what the monthly payments would be.
Bristol & West changed its interest rate products on 7 September 2022.
Mrs B contacted Bristol & West on 8 September 2022 as shed checked online and her 
overpayments hadnt been applied to her balance. And the interest rate product shed 
intended to apply for was no longer available. 
Bristol & West says it doesnt have a standard timescale for applying overpayments unless it 
receives instructions from the customer. If it does receive instructions, it aims to apply the 
overpayment within five working days. When it applies the payment, it backdates interest to 
the date the payment was received. Mrs S says she wasnt told this before she made the 
payments.
Mrs S gave instructions on 8 September 2022 and her payments were applied within five 
working days. Bristol & West wrote to Mrs S on 14 September 2022 to confirm the 
overpayments had been applied to her account and interest had been backdated to the 
dates the payments were received. This was in accordance with its usual process.
If Mrs S wanted to know how long it would take for her balance to be updated after making 
an overpayment, she could have asked Bristol & West. If Mrs S expected her balance to be 
updated on the same day that she made an overpayment, I havent seen evidence that this 
was because shed been misled by Bristol & West.
Mrs S had identified the product she wanted. Bristol & West says Mrs S already qualified for 
a product in the 0-60% loan to value ratio range. She didnt need to wait for her balance to 
be updated to be eligible for a different range of products. I understand Mrs S wanted to 
check the overpayments had arrived, and what this meant for her monthly payments. But 
this didnt prevent her applying for a new product.
Lenders are entitled to change the range of preferential interest rate products they offer at 
any time and without notice. By early September 2022, there had already been a number of 
interest rate rises, as a result of which mortgage lenders had changed their product ranges.
Mrs S didnt apply for the interest rate product while it was available. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Bristol & West to apply this product to Mrs Ss account. 
Mrs S says shell struggle with the higher monthly payments. There was no need for Mrs S 
to wait until she received a final response from Bristol & West, or for the outcome of her 
complaint brought to this service, before taking out a new interest rate product. If her 
complaint had been upheld Bristol & West could have applied the interest rate product to her 
account retrospectively. 
Bristol & West paid £25 to Mrs S for costs incurred with telephone waiting times. I think in 
the circumstances this was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman