DRN-1944344
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy for lost valuable items.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H flew back to the UK from abroad. When they went to get their checked-in 
luggage from the carousel, they found it was missing. The luggage couldnt be traced. So 
Mrs and Mr H made a claim for their suitcase and its contents on their travel insurance 
policy.
AXA agreed to settle Mrs and Mr Hs claim for some of the items theyd claimed for. But it 
turned down their claim for items of jewellery and personal money. Thats because it said 
valuable items and money werent covered if theyd been left unattended, including being left 
inside checked-in luggage. It said Mrs and Mr H hadnt been in full view of their valuable 
items or money and so hadnt been in any position to prevent unauthorised interference with 
them.
Mrs and Mr H werent happy with AXAs decision about their valuable items. They said its 
website stated valuables were covered up to £500. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought it was fair for AXA to turn down Mrs and Mr Hs claim for their lost 
jewellery. She thought the policy clearly excluded claims for valuable items that had been left 
unattended. And she felt that the fact the jewellery items had been checked-in with the 
airline meant they fell within the policy definition of unattended items. 
Mrs and Mr H disagreed. They said they hadnt left the bag unattended at any point  it was 
checked-in and it was never returned. The policy stated there was cover of up to £500 for 
valuables, so they felt it was misleading. And they didnt think it was fair for insurers to rely 
on terms to avoid paying-out on claims.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mrs and Mr Hs claim for their 
valuable items. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out the things they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. So Ive 
looked carefully at AXAs policy terms and the circumstances of Mrs and Mr Hs claim to 
decide if I think AXA has handled the claim fairly and reasonably.
Theres no dispute that Mrs and Mr Hs luggage was lost at some point after it was checked-
in with their airline. AXA accepts this and has agreed to settle the claim for non-valuable 
items under the baggage section of the policy. So AXA acknowledges Mrs and Mr H have 
shown they have a valid claim for some of the things they claimed for, such as clothing and 
swimwear. 
But Ive also considered the things AXA doesnt cover under the baggage section of the 
policy. This includes the following specific policy exclusion clause:
What is not covered
3. Loss, theft of or damage to valuables left unattended at any time (including in a vehicle, in 
checked in luggage or while in the custody of a carrier, tour operator or public transport 
operator) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked 
accommodation.
AXA has set out what it means by both valuables and unattended in the definitions section 
of the policy.
Valuables are defined as: jewellery, gold, silver, precious metal or precious or semiprecious 
stone articles, watches (excluding smart watches and fitness trackers), furs, CDs, DVDs, 
tapes, films, cassettes, cartridges, computer games, telescopes and binoculars.
Unattended is defined as: when you are not in full view of and not in a position to prevent 
unauthorised interference with your property or vehicle.
A substantial part of Mrs and Mr Hs claim was for watches owned by Mr H, which theyve 
told us were checked-in with their airline. Watches fall squarely within the definition of a 
valuable item. The policy exclusion applies to valuable items that have been left unattended. 
AXA has clearly set out that it considers valuables thatve been checked-in with an airline to 
be unattended. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr H feel that checked-in items shouldnt be treated as unattended 
items. But I disagree. Once a bag has been checked-in, a passenger can no longer see their 
items and wouldnt be able to intervene if they saw someone accessing their luggage without 
permission, until its been returned to their care.
So while I understand Mrs and Mr H feel their bag was in the care of the airline, Im satisfied 
their valuable items were unattended in line with the policy terms. This means I think it was 
fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the policy exclusion to turn down their claim for their 
valuable items.
Mrs and Mr H feel the policy is misleading as to the extent of valuables cover. Ive looked 
closely at the policy wording and documents that they sent to us. I think the Insurance 
Production Information Document explains that there is cover for valuables up to a limit of 
£300 per person for the type of policy Mrs and Mr H had. This applies to valid claims. So I 
dont think the policy is misleading. Its simply the case that Mrs and Mr Hs valuables claim 
was specifically excluded by the terms of their policy. And most, if not all, travel insurers 
exclude cover for valuable items thatve been left unattended.
I understand Mrs and Mr H havent yet accepted the settlement AXAs offered for their non-
valuable items. Its open to them to now get in touch with AXA to accept its offer should they 
wish to do so.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman