DRN-3332503
The complaint
Ms A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt pay her enough for her 
car which was deemed a total loss following an accident, when she claimed on her car 
insurance policy. 
Any reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Ms A was unfortunately involved in an accident in January 2021, so she made a claim on her 
car insurance policy. Advantage accepted the claim and told Ms A her car was a total loss. 
Advantage offered Ms A £17,432 as the market value of her car and paid her this sum, less 
the excess, in February 2021.
Ms A was unhappy with this amount. Amongst other points, she explained that her car was 
of a high specification, had low mileage and several optional extras which hadnt been taken 
into consideration. She provided some adverts for cars which were similar to hers, albeit with 
a lower specification, all of which were advertised for more than Advantage had offered her. 
Ms A also explained that the accident had already caused her and her husband significant 
upset, and the issues with the valuation were only adding to this. Unhappy with matters, she 
complained to Advantage.
Advantage reviewed her complaint. In summary, it explained that it had taken an average of 
two car valuation guides before settling on a figure. It also explained that the optional extras 
Ms A had fitted didnt increase the market value of the car. Following further conversations 
with Ms A, Advantage reviewed a third valuation guide and increased its offer to £17,464 
and paid Ms A the additional settlement. But Ms A remained unhappy, explaining that none 
of the guides took into account the optional extras. She also used another valuation guide 
herself, which said it did take her optional extras into consideration and gave a value of 
around £19,000. 
Ms A brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators reviewed matters but 
didnt think Advantage had treated Ms A unfairly. He explained that the guide valuations 
provided by Advantage were broadly similar to the values he had reached when reviewing 
things. He explained that optional extras dont always add value to a car. And, even if he 
were to consider the guide Ms A used, which did take her optional extras into consideration, 
it would still mean the figure Advantage provided was within range of all the guides. 
Advantage didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Ms A did and mostly repeated her 
earlier points. I issued a provisional decision where, in summary, I explained I thought it was 
appropriate to obtain a bespoke valuation from one of the trade guides, for reasons including 
Ms As testimony about the optional extras on the car. The bespoke guide showed a figure 
higher than Advantages offer. This prompted a review of the other two commonly used 
guides which also showed higher figures. So, I thought Advantage needed to increase its 
offer to be in line with the average of these figures and add 8% simple interest per year on 
the additional amount it pays, to compensate Ms A for being without this money. I also 
recommended it paid Ms A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms A accepted the decision. Advantage responded and, in summary, indicated it was 
inclined to disagree with the decision but wanted physical examples of the guides used and 
clarity about what was meant by a bespoke valuation. It also said that the bespoke valuation 
was considerably more than the figures it had obtained and asked whether this was due to 
the bespoke guide taking into account the optional extras. Having provided the requested 
information to Advantage, Advantage then didnt provide any further comments to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments Advantage raised in response to the provisional decision.
As part of her submissions, Ms A has also provided information about a personal injury claim 
relating to the accident. However, as I understand it, the focus of Ms As complaint to this 
service is about the valuation of her car. Therefore, this is what my decision will comment 
on. If Ms A is unhappy about her personal injury claim, she would need to raise it separately. 
The role of this service isnt to establish the value of a persons vehicle. Instead, we review 
the steps an insurer has taken when valuing a vehicle and decide whether these were fair 
and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ms As car was deemed a total loss following the accident. So, Advantage decided to 
compensate her by assessing the market value of the car in line with the terms of Ms As 
policy, which I think was fair for it to do. Market value is described in the policy terms as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition.
When reviewing Ms As claim, Advantage initially only obtained valuations from two of the 
available trade guides. It later went on to use a third trade guide but didnt consider the 
optional extras Ms A highlighted. Ms A didnt think this was fair. She thought that the guide 
she had used, which had taken the optional extras into consideration, was more reflective of 
the market value of her car. She also provided adverts of cars with a similar specification 
which also suggested the market value was higher than Advantage had offered her.
Ive considered that Advantage didnt make use of all the commonly used trade guides 
available when it conducted its review. Ive also taken into account Ms As testimony about 
the optional extras on her car as well as supporting information in the form of adverts for 
similar cars, which all show a range higher than the offer from Advantage. With this in mind 
and given that Ms A has specifically raised concerns relating to the optional extras, I 
considered it appropriate to obtain a bespoke valuation from one of the trade guides to take 
into account the optional extras.
The bespoke guide gave a valuation of £19,300, which is higher than the offer Advantage 
provided. In light of this new information, I considered it appropriate to review the other two 
commonly used trade guides again. These showed values of £19,801 and £18,230. The 
amount Advantage offered is below the range of all the three trade guides above. It follows 
that I dont consider Advantages offer to be fair and reasonable and I think it should do more 
to put matters right for Ms A.A good starting point in this instance is to consider the average of the figures outlined above, 
which brings the value up to £19,110. So, I think that Advantage should pay Ms A £19,110 
for the market value of her car, minus any applicable excess and minus any settlement it has 
already paid her. It should also add 8% simple interest per year on the additional amount it 
pays, to compensate Ms A for being without this money. This should be calculated from 
when it paid its earlier offer until the date it makes payment, as this is the time Ms A has 
been without the additional money.  
Ms A has also explained in detail the impact the matter has had on her. She said that the 
accident itself already caused significant upset for her and her husband, and the ongoing 
negotiations about the car valuation had only caused further upset. Ms A explained shes 
spent a long time researching the matter because she felt Advantages offer wasnt fair, 
evidenced by her detailed testimony and the car adverts she provided. 
With this in mind, I think Advantage should also pay Ms A some compensation for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. This is because the matter has been 
ongoing for close to a year for Ms A, involving multiple conversations with Advantage about 
the amount it offered. And, as I understand it, Ms A still hasnt replaced her car as she hasnt 
been paid enough to do so. Therefore, Im satisfied that £200 is a fair and reasonable 
amount to compensate for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Pay Ms A the market value of her car  £19,110  minus any applicable excess and 
minus any settlement it has already paid;
Add 8% simple interest* per year on the additional amount it pays, from the date of 
any settlement already paid to Ms A, up until the date of payment;  
Pay Ms A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the matter has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
* If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should also give Ms 
A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman