DRN-2753318
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect a
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in March 2021, which followed a previous provisional 
decision sent in February 2021, I said:
In my provisional decision sent in February 2021 I explained that I didnt think the complaint
should be upheld. With the information available at the time I didnt think there was enough
to say the policy wasnt right for Mr and Mrs E. However, new information has since been
provided.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr E, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr E
has told us that as part of the agreement to buy the house the builder reimbursed Mr and
Mrs E the cost of the mortgage each month for the first year. Mr E also had a secure job with
good benefits such as life insurance and generous sick pay. Unfortunately, at the time of my
previous provisional decision, Mr E had not provided evidence of either the agreement with
the builder, or the extent of the sick pay he would have received.
Mr E has now provided evidence of the arrangement with the builder, and it appears the
builder did in fact reimburse Mr and Mrs E the cost of the mortgage repayments for the first
year. Therefore, Mr and Mrs E had security that their mortgage would be paid regardless of
their circumstances.
Although it isnt possible to find out the exact extent of Mr Es sick pay entitlement now,
considering his job at the time I think it is reasonable to say he would have been entitled to a
fair amount of pay should he have become unwell.
Having thought about all the existing means Mr and Mrs E had of making their mortgage
repayments I think they couldve managed without the PPI for long enough not to really need
it.
So, I dont think Halifax should have recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs E and they have
lost out because of what Halifax did wrong.
To put things right I said Halifax should:
put Mr and Mrs E in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Mrs E the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give
Mr and Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
I gave Mr and Mrs E, and Halifax time to respond, but no further information was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But as neither side responded to my provisional decision with anything further for me to
consider I see no reason to come to a different decision to that explained above.
Putting things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs E in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Mrs E the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give
Mr and Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to put things right 
by doing what Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman