DRN-3986213
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the price hes been charged by Aviva Insurance Limited for a 
Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In January 1994, Mr Y took out a Healthier Solutions personal private medical insurance 
policy with Aviva. Originally, the policy was taken out jointly, but in 2009, the joint 
policyholder was removed from this contract.
The policy renewed each year. But Mr Y was unhappy with the premium he was quoted at 
the 2021-22 policy year. Ultimately, he was able to find cheaper cover with another insurer. 
He asked Aviva to provide the new insurer with confirmation of his cover. However, Aviva 
made errors in this cover confirmation letter and there was a delay in sending the correct 
details. This meant Mr Y experienced a short break in cover.
Mr Y was unhappy with the premiums hed been charged during the life of the policy and 
with the customer service hed received. So he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
the stress hed been caused by Aviva had led to him becoming unwell and needing both 
prescription and over-the-counter medication.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. She felt Aviva was entitled to 
decide how much it wanted to charge for its policy, so long as it did so fairly. She considered 
the evidence Aviva had provided and she felt it had provided a reasonable explanation for 
the increase in price. She was also satisfied that Mr Y had been treated in the same way as 
any other customer in the same circumstances. While she accepted that Aviva had made 
errors when it sent Mr Ys new insurer cover confirmation, she didnt think this had led to Mr 
Y suffering any financial loss. She felt Avivas apology had been enough to put things right. 
And while she sympathised with Mr Ys period of ill-health, she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to show that this was down to Avivas mistakes.
Mr Y disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He said that hed been uninsured for 
around a month due to Avivas failings. So he questioned whether Aviva wouldve covered 
any private medical costs he may have incurred during that time. He considered Avivas 
apology had been of little tangible benefit to him. He provided a copy of his policy certificate 
for his new insurer, which showed that he was paying less for cover than the amount hed 
been charged by Aviva. The new insurer provided cover for exclusively private hospitals, 
whereas Aviva provided cover for private wings within NHS hospitals, which meant that hed 
defacto been receiving NHS treatment. He felt Aviva should have proactively contacted him 
over the years to discuss the price of his policy. He maintained that his health had been 
negatively impacted by Avivas poor customer service.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y, I dont think Aviva has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr Y that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent to us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. These are 
whether Aviva increased Mr Ys premium unfairly and whether it should pay compensation 
for poor customer service.
Did Aviva calculate Mr Ys premium fairly?
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Ys. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk.
Avivas entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, the risk of Mr Y needing private medical care). And if it does, what price it 
needs to charge for that. So Aviva will have assessed the risk of Mr Y needing to make a 
claim at each review or renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone up (for example, 
because the risk-profile has increased), then it may need to put up the premium. 
Accordingly, in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to 
calculate the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that 
Mr Y has been treated in the same way as any other customer of Aviva in similar 
circumstances and hasnt been singled out in any way. 
Its clear that Mr Y has been able to obtain cheaper cover through another insurer. So I can 
understand why hes worried that Aviva hasnt treated him reasonably throughout the life of 
the policy. Id add though that Aviva isnt bound to offer cover on the same terms as other 
insurers  and most, if not all, insurers calculate price in slightly different ways. 
Avivas notes show that Mr Y had little contact with it during the life of this policy. Its 
provided me with a list of the annual premiums Mr Y paid throughout the contract term and I 
can see that the premium has generally risen over time, at some points, more significantly 
than at others. Im aware that Mr Y changed the contract quite fundamentally in 2009, when 
the joint policyholder was removed. I think its fair to say then that Mr Y was aware that cover 
could be changed. Avivas notes demonstrate that Mr Y did call up to change the level of 
cover in December 2016 and to query the price in January 2017. So it seems he was aware 
of the price and that he could contact Aviva if he had any questions about the level of cover 
or if he was unhappy with the premium hed been quoted. It was therefore open to him to 
query the price hed been charged at each renewal.
And Aviva explained to us how the premium increases were calculated for the last three 
renewals and the main factors it took into account when it calculated those annual prices. Its 
also provided us with underwriting information which supports its position. Im afraid that I 
cant share this evidence with Mr Y, as its commercially sensitive and therefore its 
confidential. But I hope it reassures Mr Y to know that I have considered this information 
carefully. 
I can explain though that the main reasons for the price rises were the increase in Mr Ys 
age and scheme increases. And it appears that these factors wouldve been applied to any 
other customer of Mr Ys age and in the same scheme in the same way. So based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied Aviva treated Mr Y in the same way it would any other policyholder 
who held the same type of contract. So I cant reasonably say its treated him unfairly.
Should Aviva pay Mr Y compensation for its service failings?
Theres no dispute that when Aviva initially provided Mr Y with a confirmation of cover, it sent 
incorrect information. This impacted on the new insurers ability to set-up Mr Ys new policy 
and ensure there was no break in private medical cover. And it seems that Mr Y was 
uninsured for around a month. Given its clear how important private medical cover is to Mr 
Y, I can entirely understand how frustrating it must have been when his new policy couldnt 
be set-up as quickly as hed have wished. Aviva acknowledges it provided poor service here 
and has offered Mr Y an apology.
Ive carefully considered whether I think Aviva needs to do anything more to put things right. 
On balance, I dont. I was sorry to hear about Mr Ys poor health and the situation he found 
himself in. It wouldnt generally be appropriate for me to speculate on hypothetical scenarios. 
But Im mindful that theres no evidence to suggest that Mr Y needed to make any claims 
during the period he was without cover. And so theres no evidence of Mr Y suffering direct 
financial loss as a result of its error. As Avivas errors didnt result in Mr Y being unable to 
access necessary private treatment during the uninsured period, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to compensate him for a loss he hasnt incurred. 
Moreover, whilst I appreciate Mr Y was prescribed medication during the relevant period, I 
havent seen enough medical evidence to show me that his health was adversely affected by 
Avivas error. I appreciate hes told us that his GP hasnt provided any face-to-face 
appointments. But in the absence of medical evidence which clearly states that, on balance, 
Mr Ys health wouldnt have been affected at all, or to the same extent, but for Avivas error, I 
dont think I could fairly find that Mr Y has shown theres a clear link between his health and 
Avivas service. It remains open to Mr Y to request such evidence from his GP and to send it 
on to Aviva for its consideration.
Based on the evidence before me, I simply dont think theres enough information for me to 
fairly and reasonably find that Avivas customer service errors have caused Mr Y material 
distress or inconvenience. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to make a 
compensatory award in this case. Overall, Im satisfied that, in these circumstances, Avivas 
apology was a fair way for it to put right its mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman