DRN-3045498
The complaint
A company, Ill refer to as O, is unhappy with how West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) 
dealt with a claim on its commercial motor policy. In particular, that it accepted liability and 
how it recorded information on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. 
Mr P, the director of O, brings the complaint on Os behalf.
What happened
O had a van insured on a commercial motor policy with West Bay. In September 2020 the 
van was parked, unattended, at a job  when a branch fell on it and caused some damage. 
Mr P called West Bay to report it, and the insurer explained that a claim would have to be 
made on Os policy (rather than pursuing the landowner where the incident occurred).
Mr P personally received an invoice for the VAT part of the repair work, instead of O, which 
caused him to query how the claim had been recorded on CUE. Initially West Bay said only 
Os name would be connected to the incident. But Mr Ps broker later spotted the insurer had 
recorded the director was the last known driver prior to the incident. A complaint was raised 
about the decision to accept liability, with O also telling West Bay it was unfair Mr P could be 
personally affected by increased premiums.
West Bay apologised for saying only O would be mentioned on the CUE record and offered 
£75 compensation. But the insurer declined to amend the database entry, saying it had 
correctly reported Mr P was the last known driver prior to the incident. West Bay also said 
the incident was unfortunately just one of those things that can happen  so it had accepted 
liability because there was no other party that could be held at fault. 
Mr P referred the complaint to our service for review, and an investigator here didnt think 
West Bay needed to remove Mr P from the CUE entry. In his view the claim record was 
accurate, and West Bay had acted reasonably by not pursuing liability against the 
landowner. 
O didnt accept the investigators view, and so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision on the matter.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Os complaint  and Ive explained why below. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, but I hope the explanation of how I 
reached my outcome is helpful.
Part of the complaint was about West Bay accepting liability, and the claim being recorded 
against Os policy. Ive reviewed the circumstances involved and consider West Bay acted 
reasonably in that regard  and sufficiently put O on notice this would go down as a fault 
claim. I also find the insurer gave Mr P a satisfactory explanation of why that would be the 
case, during the call where the incident was first reported. The insurer quickly judged it likely 
wouldnt be able to pursue liability against another party  and I think that was reasonable. I 
say that because, in order to have pursued a claim against the landowner, West Bay 
wouldve needed to establish the falling debris was caused by the third partys negligence. I 
dont consider there was any indication, from the circumstances Mr P described, of there 
likely being the weight of evidence needed to support that position. There werent any 
pictures of, say, a botched repair job having been done on the branch  and had Mr P 
spotted and photographed that, it might have suggested he considered parking under it to be 
a risk.
West Bay had a responsibility to accurately record any information about the claim on the 
CUE database. For context, CUE is a central database of incidents reported to insurance 
companies. The purpose of the database is to help identify misrepresentation and prevent 
fraud. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, itll make a record of any incident its made aware of 
 whether it leads to a claim or not. West Bay was bound to do that under the terms of CUE, 
and thats what it has done here. As West Bay couldnt recover its outlay from anyone, this 
was rightly recorded as a fault claim against Os policy. Though I appreciate that language 
is unhelpful here, as the incident wasnt necessarily anyones fault.
Ive reviewed the entry on the CUE database, and its clear that a claim was made by O, on 
a commercial policy, with the vehicle being hit by debris (no other party involved). Mr P is 
named under the driver field on the record  and Ive seen that West Bay has confirmed 
with the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB), who operates the CUE database, thats correct for 
this scenario. Theres no indication from the entry that West Bay has concluded Mr P in any 
way influenced what happened here  but the MIB says that field is mandatory and should 
record the driver at the time of an accident, or the last known driver prior to an incident. 
Theres good reason for doing that  as it can alert insurers to patterns of behaviour, which 
in turn can help them better determine the risk associated with a customer. 
West Bay has acted in line with the requirements of the database, so I consider it has fairly 
recorded this incident. I appreciate this could impact Mr Ps future premiums, and I 
understand why he considers that to be unfair  but ultimately the entry is accurate, so Im 
not directing the insurer to remove his name. Whether Mr P needs to declare this incident 
when he takes out insurance in his own name will depend on the question(s) asked by that 
insurer at inception. Each insurer will also have its own view on what affect, if any, the entry 
will have on how it rates cover.  
Mr P has said if hed have known his name would be listed on the CUE database, hed have 
reassessed whether to go ahead with the claim. But O was bound to notify the insurer of any 
accident or incident (likely to give rise to claim covered under the policy) by the terms of its 
cover with West Bay, even if it decided not to claim. West Bay would in turn have been 
required to submit an entry for that notification on CUE. So, either way, Mr Ps name would 
have been recorded on the database as the last known driver in this incident. 
West Bay has said O can buy back the claim, so only a notification is recorded rather than a 
fault claim  and I think thats reasonable. I appreciate O feels it could have carried out the 
repairs needed for much less. But West Bay appointed an independent garage to complete 
the work, and it has evidenced the costs involved. Ive not seen anything that persuades me 
they were unfairly inflated, or that parts were repaired that didnt need to be. So the buyback 
amount should be what West Bay paid for the claim.    
I dont think West Bay intended to mislead lead Mr P when it told him O was listed on CUE 
as the main claimant  as thats whats the entry shows. But I think the insurer should have 
explained that he would also be named on the record, under the driver field. I can therefore appreciate why Mr P was annoyed to later find out he had been personally associated with 
the claim. Any award I made would be to O, as the policyholder and complainant in this 
matter  and O, as its a limited company, cant be distressed or frustrated. I do think the 
unclear communication inconvenienced O, to a small extent, as it resulted in extra 
correspondence to clarify the matter  which diverted its directors attention away from 
business matters. Im pleased to see West Bay recognised this and offered £75 by way of 
apology, which I consider to be fair compensation in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Os complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman