DRN-3995066
The complaint
Mrs M complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) issued a mortgage offer which it 
later withdrew. She says it shouldnt have issued the offer in the first place, because it 
should have realised earlier that the property she wanted to buy didnt meet its lending 
criteria.
What happened
Mrs M applied to TMW for a buy-to-let mortgage. As part of the application process, TMW 
instructed a valuation from a third-party valuer. Following the valuation, it issued a mortgage 
offer.  
Mrs M went on to instruct solicitors to carry out the necessary conveyancing. The solicitors 
then confirmed the ground rent and service charge for the property. TMW withdrew its 
mortgage offer, saying that the ground rent and service charge were higher than permitted 
under its lending criteria. 
Mrs M complained. She said the valuer had failed to check the charges with either the estate 
agent or online. She pointed out that the sales particulars for the property included an 
estimate of these charges, at a level which was already more than TMW would accept. 
Mrs M said that TMW should never have issued an offer in the first place, and its mistake 
had led her to incur unnecessary fees.
TMW said it hadnt done anything wrong, and the valuer had been unable to confirm the 
ground rent and service charge before issuing their report. It still considered the property 
wasnt suitable security on the basis that the charges were too high. 
Our Investigator said that TMW was entitled to rely on the valuers report and to withdraw its 
offer of a mortgage once the actual ground rent and service charge were confirmed. He 
didnt recommend TMW pay any compensation. 
Mrs M didnt accept that conclusion and asked for an Ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the Investigator did, for much the 
same reasons.
TMW instructed a firm of qualified surveyors, regulated by the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors, to carry out the valuation on the property Mrs M wanted to buy. Im satisfied that 
it was entitled to rely on the valuation the valuer provided and to issue a mortgage offer on 
that basis.
The valuation report said it was for the conveyancer to confirm ground rent and service 
charges, and that the level of those charges may affect the valuation. That, of course, is 
what happened  and I dont consider that this was because of any mistake or failing for 
which I can fairly find TMW responsible.
While the sales particulars for the property were available online, they didnt confirm the 
ground rent and service charges; the £67 monthly figure was given as approximate. The 
actual figure for service charges and ground rent turned out to be significantly higher, at just 
under £97. 
I think it was reasonable for TMW to refer back to the valuer with the confirmed figures in the 
circumstances and to rely on the valuers response  which was that the level of the charges 
would be likely to affect the future mortgageability of the property and meant the property 
was not therefore suitable security for the mortgage Mrs M wanted. The valuer said they also 
took into account other factors such as the lease term, ground rent review period and ground 
rent escalation. 
The mortgage conditions provided for TMW to withdraw its mortgage offer in this situation; 
they said it could do so where the investigation of the title by the solicitor/conveyancer 
raises any issues which makes the property unacceptable to us.
In all the circumstances, while I recognise that Mrs W is upset and disappointed, I dont find 
TMW should fairly be liable for her costs, or for her time and disappointment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman