DRN-3860282
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct used a poor exchange rate 
when converting a payment. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr F made a withdrawal from an investment fund of €11,110.13 into his   
First Direct current account. First Direct converted the payment into sterling and credited    
Mr Fs account with £9,149.22. 
Mr F is unhappy as First Direct used an exchange rate of 1.2143 which he believes was very 
poor. He complained to First Direct and asked for a reimbursement of £177 (what he felt he 
had lost out on had a rate of 1.192 been used), an explanation of the structure of charges on 
transactions like his one, and an apology for non-transparent business practice. 
First Direct responded to Mr F and explained that the rate they apply at the time of 
conversion is a live rate provided by HSBC treasury and they have no control or ability to 
adjust it. While they believed their rate to be competitive, they explained it could change day 
to day and they acknowledged they cant always match the best rates on the market. They 
werent able to provide Mr F with any further information on the rates as its business 
sensitive, but they acknowledged he may want to use a different provider in the future. 
First Direct also commented on some further complaint points regarding the service provided 
to Mr F. They apologised for giving Mr F incorrect opening hours of the department he was 
trying to call, and they also apologised for giving him the incorrect telephone number hed 
need in order to make international payments. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr F brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that while he empathised with Mr F, he wasnt able to say 
that First Direct had acted incorrectly. He explained that banks are free to set their own 
exchange rates, and that in his opinion, First Direct had complied with their terms and 
conditions. He also explained that Mr F could have contacted the bank before making the 
transfer, to get an indication of what they rate may be. 
Mr F disagreed, he asked that if banks are able to set their own rates, did that include setting 
margins which are not disclosed to their customer. He added that this meant it would not be 
illegal for a bank to charge a margin of 25% which he felt would go against Treating 
Customers Fairly (TCF). He also asked whether our service is comfortable with banks not 
applying TCF to forex transactions. And whether our service was happy with margins of 5% 
being charged on transactions. He also explained that he wasnt able to use any other 
money transfer service in the future.
In relation to calling prior to making the transfer, Mr F said this would not be practical as he 
wouldnt have known when the funds were going to arrive. He also asked that as HSBC 
hadnt provided any indication of the cost of these transactions, is it acceptable that they 
may charge a fee without disclosing it in advance. 
Our investigator provided answers to the points above. But as Mr F didnt agree his 
complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
Id like to explain firstly that Mr F has raised several questions following our investigators 
view, but Im not going to respond to every single question hes raised. No discourtesy is 
intended by this, our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, but because Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
I have looked at the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Fs account. They explain that 
when a payment is received, the bank will convert it into sterling using the First Direct 
exchange rate at the time they receive the cash, which is what happened in this case. 
First Direct have also explained that inward payments are routed through HSBC meaning 
they arent able to see the make-up of the rate, the breakdown, profit, or mid-rate. They 
explained that Mr F could have called before making the transfer to ask for an indication 
rate. This is a flat rate and doesnt take into consideration the transfer value. So while it may 
not be the actual rate that will be used, its an indication to give customers an idea of what 
GBP value they may receive. I cant see that Mr F called to check this prior to making the 
transfer.   
I find this to be reasonable. Conversion rates change every day, and while I appreciate Mr F 
feels the rate used was very poor, First Direct are able to make their own decision on what 
rate to set. First Direct have provided evidence showing the exchange rate used on 8 August 
2022. They have also explained that as the service is automated, it would be impossible for 
the incorrect rate to be applied. Because of this, Im satisfied they applied the correct rate to 
Mr Fs transaction. 
In response to the further points made by Mr F, I can only look at what has happened in his 
specific circumstances. This means I wont be commenting on what may have happened if 
the circumstances or rates had been different, as we always have to look at every case 
individually. But I can confirm that we would always require a bank to treat their customers 
fairly. 
Overall, while I fully understand that when moving a large sum of money, Mr F wanted to get 
the best rate possible, I cant say that First Direct have done anything wrong in this instance. 
For this reason, Im not asking them to do anything. I know Mr F will find this disappointing, 
but I hope my reasoning explains why Im not able to give him the outcome he hoped for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman