DRN-2862104
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim on 
her pet insurance policy without undertaking a thorough investigation.
What happened
In October 2020, Red Sands declined Mrs Hs claim for costs associated with her dogs 
treatment. They rejected the claim as they felt the dogs condition was pre-existing. Mrs H 
didnt agree the condition was pre-existing, so Red Sands agreed to reassess the claim if the 
vet verified this.
The following day Red Sands wrote to Mrs H advising her the vet had confirmed that the 
previous issues were unrelated to the claim at hand. They also confirmed the claim had now 
been accepted and paid. 
Mrs H complained. She was unhappy as she felt the claim hadnt been thoroughly 
investigated before it was declined. And this had put her under unnecessary additional 
stress at an already stressful time as her dog was unwell. 
Red Sands looked into the complaint and accepted they had incorrectly declined the claim. 
They apologised to Mrs H, paid the claim and offered one months premium, £21.96, in 
compensation. Mrs H didnt feel this reflected the impact on her and brought her complaint to 
our service. Our investigator felt Red Sands offer was fair but as Mrs H remained unhappy 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably. Red Sands have accepted the claim shouldnt have been 
declined, and theyve now paid it.
Its not in dispute that Red Sands made an error. So, I dont need to make a finding on 
whether theyve done something wrong. What I need to decide is whether theyve done 
enough to put things right. When doing so, Ive considered the impact this has had on Mrs H.
Red Sands received the claim through their online system on 14 October 2020. They 
assessed the claim and declined it on 16 October 2020. After Mrs H challenged this, during 
a telephone call on 26 October 2020, they reassessed the claim. And after receiving 
confirmation from the vet that Mrs Hs dogs condition wasnt pre-existing, Red Sands paid 
the claim and confirmed this in writing to Mrs H on 27 October 2020. 
It must have been a stressful experience when Red Sands told Mrs H they werent going to 
cover the claim, especially as she had already been understandably concerned and worried 
about her dog. I know Mrs H is concerned that, had she not challenged it, the claim wouldnt 
have been reassessed. And shes also concerned that Red Sands may not thoroughly 
investigate other peoples claims.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Hs concerns, Im limited to looking at her individual complaint. And I 
can only look at what did happen  rather than what couldve happened.
Red Sands have reassessed the claim and paid it in line with the policy terms. Ive 
considered the time it took for Red Sands to resolve the issue and I think they dealt with it 
relatively quickly - from receiving the claim to paying it, which was around two weeks. 
I also note that Red Sands kept Mrs H informed at the point of decline, and later once theyd 
reassessed the claim and paid it.
Red Sands have apologised and offered Mrs H one months premium, totalling £21.96. 
Along with the apology and speed at which Red Sands rectified the matter, I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs H was hoping for and I dont underestimate the stressful 
time she was going through. However, Red Sands quickly put Mrs H back in the position she 
would have been in had the claim been accepted at the outset. And theyve apologised and 
offered compensation for their error. I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has already made an offer to pay £21.96 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
My decision is that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should pay Mrs H 
£21.96 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman