DRN-2183526
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001 to
cover a mortgage. Ms L says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why:
Nationwide had to make Ms L aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her mortgage. There isnt much information available from the time the policy 
was sold, but this isnt unusual considering how long ago the sale took place and that 
businesses arent required to keep this kind of information indefinitely. From the
information that is available I dont have enough to say that Nationwide didnt make Ms L 
aware that the PPI was optional, or that she didnt choose to have it.
Ms L told us that Nationwide recommended the PPI to her. Nationwide have told us that it 
didnt. If Nationwide did recommend the PPI to Ms L it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Ms L has told us that she would have been entitled to generous sick pay when she took 
the policy, so she didnt need it. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Ms Ls sick 
pay, and for longer than she would have received full pay. 
Based on what Ive seen of Ms Ls circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
So even if Nationwide did recommend the PPI to Ms L I think the recommendation was
suitable.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Ms L chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms L.
Ive thought about everything Ms L has said but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman