DRN-2007515
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim. 
What happened
Mr E has a car insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. He was involved in a road traffic 
accident in November 2019. Mr E was parked, had opened his car and was exiting his 
vehicle. The third-party vehicle hit Mr Es door which caused damage to the car and injury to 
Mr Es foot.
Mr E contacted Aviva to report the accident and make a claim. He provided details of an 
independent witness and confirmed the third party had dash cam footage.
Aviva obtained a statement from the witness and a copy of the dash cam footage. It declined 
the claim on the basis of the dash cam footage in December 2019, but Mr E didnt become 
aware of this decision on liability until January 2020, when he called for an update. 
Mr E complained to Aviva about its decision and about the failure to inform him of it. Aviva 
maintained its decision was correct but agreed that it didnt keep Mr E updated and offered 
to pay £100 compensation for this.
Mr E referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt think Aviva needed to do anymore. She said Aviva had based its decision on the 
evidence available and had offered appropriate compensation for the failure to keep Mr E 
updated. Mr E disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The dashcam footage has been tampered with
The witness statement wasnt obtained
A proper investigation wasnt carried out
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Es complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as explained by the investigator.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that this service cannot make a decision on liability  that is 
something for the courts to decide. I can look at how Aviva came to its decision. The relevant 
rules and regulations say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive seen that Aviva gathered all the information I would expect it to, including a statement 
from the independent witness and dash cam footage from the third party. It reviewed the 
information it had obtained and made a decision based on the dash cam footage. Mr E says 
the dash cam footage has been altered. The appropriate forum to raise concerns about the 
evidence would be via Aviva and if necessary, the courts. Aviva has confirmed that the claim 
was settled as a fault claim on a without prejudice basis.
Ive also listened to the initial phone call in which Mr E discussed the accident and claim with 
Aviva. The claims handler explained what would happen next and said that in a lot of these 
cases, liability was disputed. Mr E wasnt told his claim would be settled on a non-fault basis, 
but Aviva accept that it could have been clearer and could have managed expectations 
better. 
Mr E doesnt think Aviva has carried out a proper investigation but Im satisfied it gathered 
appropriate information and dealt with the claim promptly. I also dont think it unfairly decided 
the claim although I do agree that it didnt explain its decision to Mr E when it should have 
and he only found out about the decision when he contacted Aviva for an update. 
I would expect Aviva to provide Mr E with a clear explanation about how the claim would be 
settled, soon after reaching that decision. Aviva recognised this and offered to pay Mr E 
£100 compensation which I consider is fair and reasonable to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr E, as a result of Avivas failure to keep him informed and its 
failure to properly manage expectations. 
I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in relying on the information and evidence available at the 
time. If Mr E wishes to challenge the evidence used to reach a decision on liability, he would 
need to raise this with Aviva.
I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope Ive explained why I dont 
think Aviva needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr Es complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman