DRN-1653254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers Limited ("AB") didn't act fairly or 
reasonably after selling legal expenses insurance to them by then failing to tell an insurer 
about a fire on their property in time to enable them to make a claim. They want legal 
assistance and advice.
What happened
AB is an insurance broker and sold legal expenses insurance to Mr and Mrs S, alongside 
other household insurance in February 2017. A fire occurred at Mr and Mrs S' property in 
September 2017. They were unhappy that AB didn't tell the legal expenses insurer about the 
fire within 30 days or tell them to make a claim, though it did tell the household insurer about 
the situation. Mr and Mrs S said that AB should've contacted the legal expenses insurer at 
the same time as they were likely to need legal advice, or at least mentioned the matter to 
them. Their claim for assistance to pursue the owner of the property where the fire had 
started or the engineers involved in the rebuilding of their property weren't accepted by the 
legal expenses insurer.
Mr and Mrs S complained to AB. It said that the claims had been declined because there 
didn't appear to be reasonable prospects of success for a negligence claim (which was why 
the household insurer didn't pursue it) and the policy exclusions relating to claims involving 
the construction of properties. AB also said that the change of legal expense administrator 
was irrelevant as it wasn't why the claim had been declined and the same insurer had 
underwritten the policy before and after the fire.
AB said as it was due to the terms and conditions of the policy that the claims had been 
declined, it was irrelevant when the insurer's administrators was first contacted by it. AB felt 
that when the fire first happened, there was no indication legal assistance would be required 
and it was not usual practice to notify a legal expenses insurer when there was no dispute 
just because the household insurer had been notified. It said that when it became clear Mr 
and Mrs S had a dispute with the engineers dealing with their property in May 2018, it did 
notify the legal expenses insurer; the decline wasn't due to the date of notification.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The investigator's view was that AB wasn't at fault. She 
pointed out that the role of a broker was to arrange or recommend insurance policies, but 
there was no duty for a broker to notify legal expenses insurers in the event that there might 
later be a claim (or even notify the household insurer) - the duty to notify was on the 
policyholder. The investigator didn't think a broker had a duty to mention the importance of 
making a claim to the legal expenses insurer either as it wasn't its role and the broker 
couldn't know the future intentions of the policyholder. She agreed with AB that at the time of 
the fire there wasn't any indication that a claim under the legal expenses insurance policy 
might be made and it wasn't usual to notify just in case - notification should be made when 
there was an active dispute.
The investigator went on to explain that in any event the actions of the broker wasn't the 
reason why the claims had been declined. The insurance excluded claims relating to the building of a property (meaning there would be no support for a claim against the engineers), 
or claims where there was no reasonable prospect of success (the negligence claim). 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that they accepted the claim against the engineers was 
excluded but it was obvious that they'd might need to claim against the owners of the 
property where the fire started. Mr and Mrs S didn't see why the household insurer would be 
notified and not the legal expenses insurer, and said AB had a duty to do so or tell them to 
do so. They made the point that due to the fire they didn't have the documents about the 
policy and didn't know about the deadline to notify the legal expenses insurer of the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm not dealing with whether the decline of 
the claim by the legal expenses insurers was fair or reasonable; I'm only dealing with the 
complaint about AB. Brokers aren't responsible for the decisions of insurers and so even if 
the complaint was upheld, it wouldn't mean cover under the policy would be provided.
The starting point is the role of the broker and the duties of AB. While Mr and Mrs S feel AB 
had a duty to help them with their claims, strictly that isn't the role of a broker and I can't see 
any evidence that AB had a duty to do more. It isn't the role of a broker to notify insurers of 
claims, though that doesn't mean they can't offer to do so; the duty to notify is on the 
policyholder.
While Mr and Mrs S say they don't understand why the household insurer was notified and 
not the legal expenses insurer, the reason is clear - the property insured by the household 
insurer had been seriously affected by fire. But the mere existence of the fire didn't mean 
that Mr and Mrs S had a dispute and needed the legal expenses insurance; the investigator 
is right to say that it isn't usual practice to notify legal expenses insurers just in case. AB by 
helping their clients, who understandably weren't able to access their policy documents, and 
notifying the householder insurer on their behalf of the fire wasn't obliged to notify the legal 
expenses insurer. Offering support and assistance doesn't mean that a broker assumes 
additional obligations in excess of its formal role.
Mr and Mrs S say in the alternative AB should've told them to notify the legal expenses 
insurer. But until there was an active dispute, there was nothing to notify. For example, one 
early question such an insurer would ask if who the claim was against and why - without 
a dispute, there's no answer. Given the household insurer had the right to sue the owners of 
the property where the fire started, as it could stand in the shoes of Mr and Mrs S, there 
were no reasonable grounds to think that Mr and Mrs S might sue the owner. And going 
back to the role of the broker; it isn't the role of a broker to give such advice and there's no 
obligation to do so, though the broker can do so if it wants. I don't think AB has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably, and so I wouldn't uphold the complaint on this basis alone.
But I will go on to explain why notification isn't important in Mr and Mrs S' case. And while 
the identity of the policy administration changed when the policy was renewed, it makes no 
difference as the underwriter remained the same and the key exclusions of the policy also 
remained the same. 
Critically as the investigator has explained, the issue of whether AB should've notified the 
legal expenses insurer is irrelevant. This is because the claims Mr and Mrs S have talked 
about aren't covered, and this has been confirmed by the two administrators involved. The 
claim for negligence appears not to have reasonable prospects of success, which is 
required, and Mr and Mrs S themselves accept that the claim against the engineers are 
excluded as it's connected to the building of a property. The insurer through the administrators has said that the timing of notification isn't the reason why the claims haven't 
been accepted. So even if I had found AB to be at fault on this point, it wouldn't make a 
difference as the claims aren't eligible for other reasons according to the insurer - this means 
no cover would be provided regardless of AB's involvement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman