DRN-3309317
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund payments that debited 
her account as a result of a scam.
What happened
Ms B was selling an item on a popular online marketplace. She received and accepted an 
offer of £60 from a potential buyer.
Ms B was sent a link which appeared to direct her to a page on the genuine online 
marketplaces website. In fact, the website was operated by fraudsters and designed to steal 
Ms Bs card details. It claimed that her card details and a one-time passcode were needed to 
verify that Ms B owned the card and could receive the payment. It also asked her to confirm 
the balance of her account. 
Ms B entered her details and received a message containing a one-time passcode. That 
message read:
DO NOT SHARE. Anyone asking for it is trying to steal your money. Your passcode is 
XXXX for payment to [name of merchant] from card ending [last four digits of card] for 
[transaction amount]
After inputting the one-time passcode, Ms Bs card details were used to process a £60 
payment to a money transfer service. 
Ms B wasnt aware of this and it appeared to her that the process to receive her payment 
had not been correctly completed. So, she made several attempts to complete the payment. 
On at least one of those other attempts, she failed to notice that the amount mentioned in 
the one-time passcode message had increased to £600. 
After Ms B entered further one-time passcodes, a second payment, this time for the larger 
amount, was processed to the money transfer service. 
Though only two payments debited her account, in all Halifax sent seven one-time 
passcodes to Ms B.
Halifax say it sent another text to Ms B, asking her to confirm whether the first transaction 
was genuine, and that Ms B confirmed that it was. Though it hasnt provided this message, 
Ms B confirms that she received it during a call she had with the bank. The message asked 
her to confirm that she was making a £60 payment by replying yes, which she did.
After realising shed been the victim of a scam and reporting the matter to Halifax, Ms B said 
that she believed throughout that she was following the process to receive, rather than make 
payments. She acknowledged that she may not have read the messages in detail or fully 
understood them. 
Halifax didnt uphold her claim. It said that the transactions werent unusual enough for it to 
believe Ms B was at risk of financial harm from fraud and that, as shed failed to take notice 
of the warnings contained in the text messages, it couldnt be held responsible. It also 
referenced a previous fraud claim Ms B had raised, in which it said it had educated her about 
keeping her card details secure. 
Ms B referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint. 
They were of the view that Ms B had authorised the transactions and that Halifax would have 
no reasonable way of knowing that they were made as a result of fraud.
Ms B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I wrote to Halifax in advance of my final decision to explain that, contrary to the investigators 
findings, I didnt think the transactions were authorised by Ms B and neither did I think that 
she had been grossly negligent. Halifax disagreed, arguing that Ms Bs response to the 
banks security text message confirmed her authorisation of the transactions. Ms B 
confirmed she was happy with the proposed outcome and didnt have anything further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (as well as the terms of Ms Bs account) set out 
that she isnt liable for payments she hasnt authorised, unless she failed with gross 
negligence or intent to comply with the terms of her account or to keep her personalised 
security credentials safe.
Halifax argues Ms B did authorise the transactions by entering her card details, disclosing 
the one-time passcodes and providing a positive response to the security text following the 
first transaction.
But, in order for a transaction to be authorised, Ms B needs to have:
- Given her consent using the form and procedure agreed with Halifax; or
- Given permission for another person to carry out the transactions on her behalf.
Ive reviewed Halifaxs terms and conditions, but they dont set out exactly what the form and 
procedure is for online card payments. But its apparent there are two steps that ordinarily 
need to be taken to authorise a payment in this way:
- Entering the card details on the merchants website; and
- Inputting a code, also on the merchants website, to complete the transaction
Ms B didnt take either of these steps. She had no interaction with the merchants website at 
all  having only entered her card details and codes into the fraudulent duplication of the 
online marketplaces website. It follows that she didnt follow the form and procedure. 
The subsequent security message doesnt, I think, form part of the form and procedure  it is 
not a step that is necessary for each and every transaction (as it wasnt for the second). It 
follows that a positive response to the security text message isnt enough to demonstrate 
authorisation. I have considered whether Ms B gave permission for someone else to authorise the 
payments. But she believed that she was receiving, rather than making a payment. Im 
satisfied (and neither does it seem to be disputed) that Ms B genuinely held this belief. 
Indeed, it is the purpose of the scam to mislead the victim into believing they are going to 
receive a payment. There would be no reason for Ms B to consent to a payment taking place 
in these circumstances. 
Theres no suggestion Ms B intentionally failed to keep her security details safe  again she 
genuinely believed that she was taking the necessary steps to receive a refund. 
Neither do I think she failed with gross negligence. That is to say I dont think her actions fell 
so far below what a reasonable person would have done that they amount to gross 
negligence. 
The fake website was well designed and appeared genuine. The URL was very similar to 
that of the actual online marketplace and the justifications it gave for Ms B to enter her card 
details and the codes were, on the whole, plausible. 
While Ms B did receive seven separate one-time passcode texts, I dont think she would 
have reasonably believed that she was sharing them with anyone, as they advised her not 
to. Rather she was entering them onto a website, a practice which would be familiar to 
anyone using their card online. 
Ms B does acknowledge that she overlooked the fact the one-time passcode texts, as well 
as the single security text, said that she was making, rather than receiving, a payment. But, 
as Ms B states, she was expecting to receive text messages to confirm the payment she 
was expecting to receive  as the fraudulent website advised this would happen. She had no 
reason to think that the texts might actually be authorising payments and, while she might 
have read the texts more carefully, I dont think this amounts to gross negligence. I can also 
understand how she may have overlooked the addition of an extra zero on the amount 
mentioned in the text messages. Again, without some comprehension that she was being 
tricked, shed have no reason to think the amount would change from text to text.
Halifax have argued that it educated Ms B about fraud and scams previously and shed 
failed to take on board that advice. Ive reviewed the previous fraud claim and it happened 
more than a year before, was very different in nature and, in any case, only mentions making 
a purchase online and not sharing card details with anyone. So, even if I was to accept this 
information was provided in a way that Ms B understood, its not directly relevant to what 
happened here. 
Overall, Im satisfied Ms B didnt authorise the transactions and was neither grossly 
negligent nor failed with intent to adhere to the terms of her account or keep her details 
secure. It follows that Halifax have made a mistake by failing to provide a refund. As the lost 
money came from Ms Bs current account and its not clear how it would have been used, I 
also think Halifax should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount lost, from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Bs complaint and instruct Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to:
- Pay Ms B the amount lost - £660, less any amount already refunded
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, from the date of the payments to 
the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman