DRN-3297424
The complaint
Miss S complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) gave her incorrect 
information and poor advice in connection with the maturity of an index linked saving 
certificate. She says she incurred a penalty for the early redemption of the certificate.
What happened
Miss S had a 5-year index linked saving certificate with NS&I that was due to mature in 
May 2021. She says she wanted to cash in the certificate when it matured, but the 
correspondence shed received wasnt clear, so she telephoned NS&I to find out what she 
needed to do. Miss S told us:
The first person she spoke with was very keen to end the call as quickly as possible 
and they told her to use the cash in option on the website;
she followed these instructions but there wasnt anywhere that she could enter an 
effective date for the cashing in of the certificate;
after shed completed the transaction, she realised it had been processed as an early 
redemption and shed incurred a penalty;
the representative shed spoken with hadnt told her to be careful, and there was no 
warning on the website about what shed done;
she telephoned NS&I to tell them that shed not intended to redeem the certificate 
early  shed wanted it to run to maturity  but the person she spoke with said there 
was nothing they could do about it;
she raised a complaint with NS&I about the service shed received and the incorrect 
information shed been given. 
NS&I apologised for the poor experience Miss had when she contacted its helpline and the 
frustration that this wouldve caused, and it paid her £50 compensation. But it said the 
information it had given Miss S had been correct; the website had highlighted the penalty 
charge for early redemption of the certificate; and Miss S had acknowledged this when she 
cashed in her certificate online.
NS&I told us it emailed Miss S a month before her certificate matured advising her to log in 
to her account and check her secure messages. It said the secure message routed Miss S to 
her maturity letter which advised her of the investments maturity value; the date of maturity; 
and the options available to her. But it said, instead of selecting one of the three maturity 
options, Miss S simply chose to cash in the investment early, and a closure payment was 
processed. NS&I explained that because Miss S closed the investment early, she was 
charged an early redemption penalty in accordance with the terms and conditions.
NS&I said it had reviewed the call recordings and could find no evidence of Miss S having 
been given incorrect information by its representatives. And it confirmed that there wouldve 
been a warning on the website that highlighted to Miss S the existence of an early 
repayment charge in the event she cashed in the investment before its maturity date.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained hed been able to listen to the call recordings and, although he acknowledged the 
service couldve been better, he could find no evidence that Miss S had been given any 
incorrect information by the NS&I representatives that had caused her to cash-in her 
investment early, instead of leaving it to mature as she says she intended.
He also explained that hed been given a screenshot of the NS&I website that wouldve been 
presented to Miss S. The web page wouldve presented a clear and visible warning to 
someone redeeming their investment early. It said, The equivalent of 90 days interested on 
the amount you cash in will be deducted from your payment. And you wont earn any index-
linking on the whole Certificate for the investment year in which you cash in, even if you only 
cash in part of it. Because of this, he was satisfied that NS&I had been clear about what 
would happen if Miss S chose to confirm the early redemption of her investment.
Miss S disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says its unreasonable to not 
be advised of the risks of what she was doing, and it wasnt easy to understand that the 
warning was only applicable during early maturity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been able to listen to the call recordings between Miss S and several NS&I 
representatives. And Ive also been given screenshots that are indicative of what Miss S 
wouldve seen when she logged in to her account and confirmed she wanted to complete the 
early redemption of her investment.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what hes already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in his view.
Theres no dispute about what happened. Miss S contacted NS&I because she knew her 
investment was nearing maturity and she wanted to know when it would be contacting her to 
inform her of her options.
Im satisfied that the first representative clearly explained the options available to Miss S, 
and it was Miss S herself who moves the discussion on from the maturity options to what 
she needed to do if she wanted to cash-in the investment. Ive heard nothing to support 
Miss S position that this representative gave her incorrect advice or information. And I think 
this is further supported when, around 10 minutes later, Miss S telephones again and speaks 
to a second representative. In this call, Miss S first words are I think that I have screwed 
up. She goes on to explain that what shed just done on her account isnt what she actually 
wanted to do, and the reason for this second call is that shed just realised shed incurred a 
penalty for early redemption of the investment.
Ive looked at the screenshots provided by NS&I, and Im satisfied that a clear warning was 
presented to Miss S before she confirmed she wished to proceed. The warning clearly 
explained that if the investment were to be cashed in before the end of the agreed term, then 
90-days interest on this amount would be deducted from the payment. And it explained that 
no index-linking would be earned on the entire investment for the investment year in which 
all, or part, of the investment was redeemed early.I understand Miss S frustration with whats happened here  she closed her investment 
early and this cost her just under £300 in penalties  but I cant hold NS&I responsible for it. 
The information it gave Miss S was correct, and it was Miss S own actions that resulted in a 
penalty being applied for the early redemption of the certificate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman