DRN-4242690
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way MBNA Limited handled his request for a refund in respect of 
flights he bought using his MBNA credit card.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr J bought airline tickets from London to Phuket via Zurich and Bangkok 
with an airline Ill call S, through an online travel agent Ill call E. Mr J paid using his MBNA 
credit card and the payment went directly to S. 
Mr J said he needed a particular type of pass to enter Thailand due to the ongoing situation 
with the Covid-19 pandemic. He said after purchasing his flights, and after speaking with the 
issuer of the pass, he realised that the sequence of flights hed bought was not compatible 
with the pass he needed. 
Mr J said he tried to change the flights via both E and S to make them compatible with the 
pass. He said E told him that hed need to speak to S to make the change and Ss website 
said that tickets booked via an agent could only be changed by that agent. Mr J said having 
not got anywhere with either E or S, he had to book flights with an alternative provider. 
In February 2022 S contacted Mr J and explained it had refunded £245 to him. It did not say 
what this was for. 
Mr J asked MBNA to step in and help him get a refund for the remainder of the cost of the 
flights.
MBNA said it couldnt help Mr J. It said the terms of his contract made it clear he was 
responsible for ensuring he met the foreign entry requirements for where he was travelling. It 
said that because his tickets were non-refundable, there were no grounds for it to attempt to 
recover the money from S via a process called chargeback. And it didnt think it was liable to 
him under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) as there hadnt been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
Dissatisfied Mr J referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator didnt think MBNA needed to do anything about Mr Js complaint. She didnt 
think it would be fair or reasonable to ask MBNA to pay Mr J the cost of the flights as there 
were no grounds to recover the money under chargeback and no liability to him under 
section 75. 
Mr J did not agree with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
He said should not have been sold flight tickets which were incompatible with the entry 
requirements in Thailand.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at the actions of MBNA and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it handled Mr Js request for help in getting his money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations. 
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid 
claim under section 75. 
MBNA said it couldnt raise a chargeback in Mr Js case, or pay him the flight costs under 
section 75, because the service went ahead and the tickets were non-refundable. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr J, but I dont think, looking at the relevant rules and 
obligations on MBNA that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill explain in more 
detail why I think that is the case. 
Chargeback 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Mr J made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good 
practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate 
for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
Looking at the numerous dispute conditions under the card scheme rules, it doesnt appear 
there were any that fit the circumstances of Mr Js case. The relevant transaction here was 
with S as that is who Mr J paid. Ive not seen anything that shows me S was contractually 
obliged to change Mr Js flights in the event he requested this or provide him with a refund. 
But even if they did it appears Mr J never made a direct request to S for this any event. 
It appears the flight tickets permitted carriage to the holder of the ticket, subject to the 
necessary conditions, such as possessing the appropriate entry documents to the relevant 
destination countries. So, it doesnt appear Mr J would have met the card scheme conditions 
for services not being as described or misrepresented either. 
It does not appear therefore that a chargeback would have been successful if raised. 
Chargebacks are subject to the scheme rules and are not typically a determination of 
someones legal rights in a dispute. I dont think MBNA was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
when it didnt raise one.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services
A claim under section 75 must relate to a transaction funded by a debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement. What this meant in this case, because Mr J paid S, is that MBNA was 
only potentially liable to him in relation to any like claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation he may have had against S, not E. As Ive already alluded to, Ive not seen anything that appears to have contractually obliged 
S to permit Mr J to make changes to his flight once hed booked it. And from he has said it 
appears he may not have directly requested S to do so anyway. Mr J said the information on 
Ss website said hed need to make changes via E. So, if E failed to make provision for this, 
it didnt mean S was necessarily in breach of contract to Mr J.
It appears the terms may have made provision for refunds in certain circumstances, but only 
if the applicable ticket tariff conditions made such provision. Ive not been provided with 
anything that makes me think the tickets Mr J bought were refundable in the circumstances 
of his case. So, it doesnt appear S was in breach of contract by declining to provide a refund 
either.
Mr J has said the tickets were mis-sold because S misrepresented the fact they would permit 
travel from London to Thailand. Mr J bought the tickets via E. S simply acted upon the 
instructions E gave it to make the relevant booking. S was contracted to provide flights from 
one airport to another, not entry through the border at the destination. And it was seemingly 
able to provide what it had contracted to supply  there is no suggestion the flights did not go 
ahead. It appears Ss terms would also have set out that it was Mr Js responsibility to 
ensure he could provide the necessary entry documents required by the law of the countries 
concerned, not Ss. So, I dont find the flights were misrepresented by S. 
I do sympathise with Mr J and recognise the significant sum of money hes lost out on. But I 
can only reasonably ask MBNA to pay him the cost of the flights if it treated him unfairly by 
declining his request for a refund. Having considered the relevant provisions under 
chargeback and MBNAs potential liability to Mr J under section 75, I dont think it has 
treated him unfairly. So, I dont require MBNA to pay him the cost of the flights or do 
anything else in respect of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman