DRN-3625378
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy because Barclays Bank UK PLC did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
Background
Miss T was looking to start up a business in catering and was told by her mother that she 
had a friend who could provide some electrical items Miss T needed, as well as a box of 
jewellery. Miss T was unaware at the time that her mother had actually met the seller in 
question on a dating website and that he was in fact a scammer. The scammer had told Miss 
Ts mother that he lived in America, but had a business head office in London where the 
items could be collected from.
Miss T has accepted she didnt conduct many checks on the individual she believed she was 
buying from, as she trusted what her mother had told her. She did however check the 
business name he provided and found an address linked to the name. She also saw photos 
of the items she intended to buy and had a business phone number which she had called.
Miss T has explained her mother advised her the items were a good deal, although she 
hadnt checked for herself at this point how much the items were actually worth. Miss T sent 
£8,000 from her own savings account to the scammer across four payments, two made in 
branch with a cashier, and two using the branchs self-service machines. Payments were 
made to an account that matched neither the scammers alleged name, nor the business 
name he had provided. Miss Ts mother and another family member also sent funds to the 
scammer. In total £18,000 was sent. Since researching the items in more detail, Miss T has 
said the actual value of the items being offered was around £35,000 to £40,000.
When Miss T went to collect the items, two individuals were waiting for her and asked for 
more money. When Miss T refused, they left without providing any goods. Miss T was 
subsequently unable to reach anyone by the phone or email provided and realised shed 
been the victim of a scam. She contacted her bank, Barclays, to make a claim.
Barclays investigated Miss Ts fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Miss T 
with a refund. Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Barclays says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Barclays has said Miss T didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making 
genuine payments for catering equipment. Barclays considers Miss T ought to have done 
more checks to make sure the person she was making the payments to was genuine. 
Barclays also considered it provided Miss T with an effective warning at the time she made 
the branch payments with a cashier.
Barclays contacted the beneficiary bank to attempt to recover Miss Ts money, but 
unfortunately only £29.58 could be recovered. Barclays also paid Miss T £50 to 
acknowledge the delays she experienced when making a claim.
Miss T disagreed with Barclays so brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the case and upheld it in part  he thought that, in the 
circumstances, Miss T ought to have completed further checks herself to ensure she was 
paying a legitimate supplier. However he also didnt think that Barclays provided an 
effective warning, or that its intervention went far enough when questioning Miss T on the 
payments she was making. The investigator therefore considered Barclays should be 
responsible for refunding 50% of the losses Miss T incurred from the scam. He also 
considered the £50 compensation awarded was fair to reflect the delays in resolving Miss 
Ts claim. Barclays agreed with the recommendations set out by the investigator.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigator, so the case has been referred to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think a 50% liability split between Miss T and Barclays, as awarded by the 
investigator is fair. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have fully reimbursed Miss T under the provisions of the CRM Code. As 
Barclays now accepts it couldve done more to protect Miss T from financial harm from fraud 
and has agreed to accept partial liability, the question that remains for me is whether Miss T 
should also be held partly responsible for her losses.
Theres no dispute here that Miss T was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was making genuine payments towards catering equipment and that didnt happen. But this 
isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss T to receive a full refund under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Miss T too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is 
for Barclays to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one 
of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
I think Barclays has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Miss T 
under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Barclays has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Miss T was making are enough to support its 
position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payments she made. I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the person she 
transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why.
Miss T has acknowledged that she didnt conduct many checks before making payments to 
the scammer  that shed received information about the scammer from her mother and so 
took her word that he was legitimate. As Miss Ts belief in the legitimacy of the seller was 
mostly based on her mothers perspective of him, I cant fairly conclude that Miss T herself 
did enough to assure herself that the seller was genuine. I appreciate she did some checks, 
for example finding an address linked to the company name shed been given  but I think 
Miss T ought to have done more before proceeding. 
In addition I think there were some red flags in the scam that ought to have caused Miss T to 
pause and ask further questions before proceeding. For example, the business account Miss 
T paid was different to the business the scammer claimed to work for, the price Miss T 
agreed to pay for the goods was around 50% of their market value and I think the addition of 
a jewellery box to the offer was unusual and shouldve been questioned further, considering 
the goods Miss T intended to buy were entirely unrelated.
With the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Miss T 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the goods shed been offered and that, 
in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Miss Ts part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find she had a reasonable basis for believing the goods were 
genuine and so fell below the level of care expected of her under the CRM Code.
Should Barclays have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss T?
As mentioned above, Barclays has now agreed to accept partial liability under the terms of 
the CRM Code, to acknowledge it couldve provided better warnings to Miss T when making 
the payments, which I think is fair.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Barclays tried to recover Miss Ts funds, but 
unfortunately was advised by the beneficiary account that most funds no longer remained. 
Those funds that did remain were returned to Miss T. Having considered the short 
timeframes within which Barclays contacted the beneficiary account to make it aware of the 
scam, I dont think Barclays could reasonably have done anything further to recover Miss Ts 
payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays position on Miss Ts fraud claim to share liability equally, 
is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Barclays shouldnt be held further liable for Miss Ts losses. I also think the £50 it offered Miss T as compensation for delays 
when claiming is also fair to reflect the frustration this no doubt caused Miss T at the time.
I do sympathise with Miss T as shes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont 
doubt Miss T genuinely believed she was paying for goods for her business. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find that both her and 
Barclays should share equal responsibility for her losses incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Ts complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund Miss T 50% of the £8,000 payments she made to the fraudster
Pay interest at the originating account rate, from the date the payments were made 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman