DRN-3042427
The complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wouldnt let him borrow 
back on his mortgage account when he wanted to do so.
What happened
Mr G has a mortgage with Virgin Money and had been overpaying on his account from 2016. 
In March 2020, Mr G contacted Virgin Money to borrow back some money to fund an ISA 
purchase.  Mr G had a fixed rate mortgage product with Virgin Money and the lender said 
that under the terms of the fixed rate product Mr G couldnt borrow back during the term of 
the product which was to end on 31 August 2020 - although initially it said that this would be 
possible. As Mr G was switching to another product, he was able gain access to the 
overpayments within three months of the product ending but there was a delay in payment 
out from 1 June until 15 June 2020. 
Although Virgin Money said that the mortgage offer was clear that Mr G couldnt borrow back 
during the concessionary period, it offered Mr G £450 for his distress and inconvenience and 
refunded net £89.79 for the interest Mr G lost by the delayed payment in June. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed 
saying in summary that our investigators view was unfair to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G accepted the offer of a mortgage with a fixed rate concessionary period from Virgin 
Money. The offer document at Section 12 Additional Features refers to both Payment 
Holidays and Borrow Backs and says that these dont apply during the Concessionary 
period. So, when Mr G asked to borrow back money in March 2020 during the 
concessionary period, Virgin Money refused it. That was in line with the terms of the 
mortgage contract and in coming to a decision I have to consider the applicable law. But as 
Mr G rightly says I must consider what is fair in the circumstances.
Mr G believes that Virgin Money acted unfairly in sticking by the terms of the mortgage offer 
document. But the mortgage offer document is a document where Virgin Money says on 
what terms it will lend money to Mr G and forms the basis of Mr Gs acceptance of those 
terms. Ive read what Mr G says about the mortgage offer document. I would have expected 
Mr G to have read the document as a whole. and I dont consider the terms to be unclear. I 
appreciate that Mr G would like the terms to be presented differently but I dont consider 
there is confusion caused by the section on overpayments appearing in section 11 and the 
section on borrow backs appearing in the following section.
Section 12 says that borrow backs arent available during the concessionary rate period 
which was the relevant period here. That isnt discretionary in my view although if Mr G was 
outside the concessionary period, there clearly were factors set out that would allow Virgin 
Money to exercise its discretion, but these werent relevant to Mr Gs application at that time 
to borrow back. 
I consider that it would be unfair to unilaterally change the terms of an offer that Mr G agreed 
to. So, I dont believe that Virgin Moneys refusal to allow a borrow back in line with the terms 
of the mortgage offer was unfair. Mr G had a number of related issues for which Virgin 
Money paid compensation. Looking at the complaint as a whole I believe that Virgin Money 
dealt with it fairly and reasonably including the amount of compensation paid and so, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman