DRN-2558931
The complaint
Miss T complains that Connells Limited miscalculated her cost of moving home. Miss T says 
the pressure of finding excess funds to complete on her purchase caused her financial 
difficulty, along with stress and anxiety. 
What happened
In early 2020 Miss T sought mortgage advice from Connells in relation to selling a leasehold 
property to move into a freehold property  both shared ownership. 
Miss T says she made it clear to Connells that she had no disposable funds to cover the cost 
of moving. All her money was tied up in her existing property. She said Connells calculated a 
surplus from the sale that would cover the upfront fees paid for on her credit card 
(approximately £1,000) and provide an additional credit of around £500.
Two days before completion in mid-June 2020, Miss T was told a shortfall to complete 
existed of around £930. The solicitors explained a sinking fund payment of £1,100 was 
needed to complete on the sale of her existing leasehold property. 
Miss T complains that Connells significantly underestimated the costs involved. She had to 
borrow money on credit and from family to fund the move which has left her in financial 
difficulty causing stress and anxiety.
Miss T complained to Connells. Her complaint wasnt upheld. Connells said it can only 
provide an estimate of the legal costs involved in the conveyancing process  the final costs 
calculated by the solicitor may differ. It is also unable to foresee any additional costs under 
the conditions of the lease  this is the role of the solicitor. Connells also noted that Miss T 
had the option to increase her mortgage loan to cover the additional costs. She chose not to, 
as she didnt want the delay to jeopardise the process.
Dissatisfied with Connells response, Miss T brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Connells was 
responsible for the discrepancy. 
Miss T disagreed. In summary she said:
- the calculations regarding the discrepancy dont add up;
- she trusted Connells advice. If she was aware of the full costs from the outset, she 
wouldnt proceed with the move to put herself in financial difficulty; 
- she wasnt given sufficient notice relating to the sinking fund charge; and
- she shouldnt have been charged £100 Stamp Duty Land Tax Return fee when no 
levy was applied.
Our investigator considered Miss Ts response and explained why his opinion remained the 
same. Miss T asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators findings for much the same reasons. Ill now 
address the points Miss T has raised in response to our investigators opinion in turn.
As part of the advice given, Connells provided Miss T with a cost of moving analysis. The 
estimated figure was £5,658  including estate agent fees, legal and administration costs.
A disclaimer was included stating the following:
 third party costs including HM land registry fees, searches and money 
transfer fees, and can vary, depending upon which searches are specifically 
required on the property, or the number of money transfers needed. In addition, if 
the property is leasehold, there may be costs from the landlord or management 
company, which do vary, property by property. 
So, I think it was made clear to Miss T from the outset that at any third-party costs 
could vary and that further costs may arise from the landlord or management 
company. 
When estimating the cost of the move, Connells could only say for certain what its fees 
were. Its not unreasonable for Connells to provide an estimate of the conveyancing costs. 
The exact legal costs chargeable would depend on the work necessary. A full breakdown of 
legal costs would be provided by the solicitor on completion. 
Miss T disputes the discrepancy amount. She says she was promised a surplus of around 
£1,500. When taking into account the sinking fund bill of £1,111, she would still be due a 
surplus. But the information provided to her by Connells was just an estimate. It is for the 
solicitor to balance the full cost of selling and buying and to provide completion statements 
setting out the costs. When balanced these would determine whether an amount was owed 
or due. On this occasion it showed a balance of £929.53 due on completion. 
Miss T says if shed know the full costs involved from the outset she wouldnt have gone 
ahead. I do empathise with Miss Ts position  the cost of moving was more than anticipated 
and she says shes incurred a debt as a result. But I cant reasonably hold Connells 
responsible for this. As Ive explained, it wasnt possible for Connells to foresee the exact 
conveyancing costs from the outset. All Connells could do was provide a reasonable 
estimate which I think it did. The only way Miss T would be able to get a more accurate 
estimate would be to contact a solicitor directly.
Miss T complains that she was wasnt given enough notice about the sinking fund balance 
due. Its the solicitors role to establish if any outstanding charges are due under the lease 
and to let the client know. Connells wouldnt have access to this information. This would only 
come to light as part of the conveyancing process. Therefore, I cant hold Connells 
responsible for Miss T being made aware of this cost close to completion. 
That brings me onto Miss Ts final point of the £100 Stamp Duty Land Tax Return fee. I can 
confirm that there is still a duty to tell HMRC about property transactions even if you do not 
owe any tax. There is a cost for this, so this fee was charged fairly. 
In summary I dont think it was unreasonable for Connells to estimate the cost of moving. Its 
not unusual for conveyancing to cost more that anticipated, if more work is required, that 
comes to light during the process. When the shortfall was confirmed, Connells said Miss T had the option to increase her mortgage to cover the costs. She chose to fund the costs 
herself. 
For the reasons Ive explained I cant say Connells has acted unfairly in the circumstances of 
this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman