DRN-3186981
The complaint
Mr W complains that Go Car Credit Limited irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Go 
Car Credit. Mr W was required to make 36 monthly repayments of £158. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £5,705.
Mr W says that Go Car Credit didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Go Car Credit didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a credit worthiness assessment including a credit check and a review of 
Mr Ws personal circumstances and undertook an income and expenditure assessment. 
Based on this it found Mr W had monthly disposable income of over £1,500.
The agreements contractual term ended in April 2021 but there is still an outstanding 
balance owing to the arrears on Mr Ws account. Due to issues with the car it has been 
scrapped.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Go Car Credit ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr W.
Go Car Credit didnt agree and said the information in Mr Ws credit file wasnt such that it 
would have been reasonable for Go Car Credit to need to request additional information, 
specifically bank statements. It said the accounts with arrangement to pay should be 
considered in a similar way to accounts with historic defaults and that based on this its 
checks were proportionate. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting the finance, I think Go Car Credit gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr W about his income as it was provided with copies of his recent 
payslips. It gathered information about Mr Ws expenditure and also carried out a credit 
check. The credit check Go Car Credit completed showed that Mr W had four historic 
defaulted accounts as well as two accounts in arrears. I note the comments Go Car Credit 
has made about the accounts in arrears and arrangements to pay but I think that Mr Ws 
credit check ought to have indicated that Mr W was likely to be struggling financially. It 
therefore would have been proportionate for Go Car Credit to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for Go Car Credit to have verified Mr Ws financial 
circumstances. One way Go Car Credit could have done this was by requesting copies of 
their bank statements. Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the 
lending decision. 
Looking at Mr Ws bank statements and his payslips, Mr W had an average income in the 
three months before the agreement of around £2,250  with an income of £1,724 in 
February 2018. So while I note Go Car Credit found Mr Ws average monthly income to be 
around £2,400 based on his pay to date, I think the variability of his income needed to be 
considered. 
Mr Ws bank statements show that in the months leading up to the agreement he was 
making payments to several debt management companies and had other outstanding high 
cost loans. His average committed expenditure was around £2,100 (including rent, utilities, 
insurance, credit commitments and other living expenses). This meant he had very limited 
disposable income. As well as making payments each month to several debt management 
companies and other high cost loan providers, Mr W had returned direct debits, which 
suggests he didnt have sufficient income to cover all his commitments and may have been 
using other forms of lending to supplement his income.
Overall, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that Mr W didnt 
have sufficient disposable income to afford the additional borrowing and that he was 
experiencing issues managing his finances. I therefore dont think Go Car Credit made a fair 
lending decision.
Putting things right
As I dont think Go Car Credit ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it 
to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement.
The cash price of the car was £3,254. I understand form the information provided that Mr W 
has paid more than this to Go Car Credit and that the car has been scrapped. Mr W should 
therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £3,254. Anything Mr W 
has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment.
So, to settle Mr Ws complaint Go Car Credit should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr W has made in excess of £3,254, representing the original 
cash price of the car. Go Car Credit should add 8% simple interest per year* from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file relating to the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Go Car Credit to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Go Car Credit Limited to put things right in the manner set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman