DRN-1804766
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account, called an Additions account. 
Barclays charged Miss D a monthly fee for the Additions account and provided several 
potential benefits in return. Miss D thinks that Barclays should refund her all the fees she 
paid, plus interest.
What happened 
Miss D has been a customer of Barclays for a long time. Barclays does not have full details 
of exactly when she opened her first account and precisely when it sold her the Additions 
account. But from the information it does hold, it has told us that her account history is 
probably as follows:
Miss D first opened an account, which didnt have a fee, during the early 1990s,
by 1998 (possibly as early as 1996), Barclays had sold her the Additions account, 
which replaced her fee-free account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in January 2017, Barclays switched Miss D to a fee-free account but added a 
package of benefits called a Tech Pack, for which it charged a monthly fee.
Miss D seems to have accepted this account history and I have taken it to be correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Ds complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had mis-sold her the Additions account. Miss D didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Miss Ds complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Miss D and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Miss D has been very precise about the reason for complaint. Shes given us a full 
description of what she remembers happening. Shes told us that she visited one of 
Barclays branches and that while she was waiting to be served, a Barclays employee 
approached her and took her to a separate desk to tell her about the Additions account. 
Shes said that the employee told her to take the Additions account as it would be the only 
way (for her) to get an overdraft from the bank in the future and that the standard current 
account was being phased out. She has repeated this consistently throughout our 
investigation into her complaint. 
First of all, I would like to make it clear that Barclays did not withdraw fee-free accounts 
between 1996 and 1998. It has continued to provide them until the present time. And 
similarly, throughout the time in questions, it has continued to arrange overdrafts for 
customers with fee-free accounts, subject to their credit worthiness. However, the crux of 
Miss Ds complaint is that she thinks Barclays misled her about both of these issues and that 
if it hadnt, she would not have bought the Additions account. 
Barclays has denied mis-leading Miss D. It has told us that it treated her fairly and gave her 
a choice of accounts. 
Unfortunately, there are no detailed records from Barclays discussion with Miss D and I 
cant tell for sure what it said, or didnt say, to her. And although Miss Ds description of what 
she recalls has been very clear, the conversation took place at least twenty years ago and I 
cant be confident that all the details are correct after such a long time has passed. 
Around 1996 to 1998, one of the main benefits that Barclays provided to customers with 
Additions accounts was to waive usage charges for overdrafts that it usually made to 
customers with fee-free accounts. And it didnt charge Additions account holders any interest 
on the first £100 of any overdraft, whereas it charged most customers with fee-free accounts 
interest from the first pound. 
Depending on exactly how customers used an account, they could save more on the cost of 
an overdraft with an Additions account than they the paid in monthly fees. I find it highly 
likely that Barclays told Miss D about this during the discussion. It may also have told her 
she couldnt get these overdraft savings if she kept her fee-free account However, as this 
was true, it wouldnt have been misleading. 
I gather that in the 1990s Miss D overdrew her account quite frequently and may have found 
the Additions account quite attractive due to the possible savings on any overdraft, along 
with other potential benefits, which included use of a payment protection scheme and access 
to a Will-writing service and a legal helpline. 
I also find it unlikely that Barclays told Miss D she had to change accounts. I think its more 
likely that it allowed her a choice. And there doesnt seem to be any dispute that it told her 
about the monthly fees. 
Although Miss Ds complaint has been very specific, in fairness to her I have also looked at 
the evidence I have to see if Barclays may have made any other errors which amounted to 
mis-selling, but I havent seen any.
So, in summary, there is very little original evidence to show for sure how Barclays sold the 
Additions account to Miss D, but from what Ive seen I doubt that it mis-sold the account to 
her.
Throughout our investigation into this complaint, Miss D has not made any significant 
comments about the way Barclays switched her to the Tech Pack. Barclays has made some 
comments to us about the Tech Pack, but when it sent Miss D its final response letter on her 
case, it said that she had not complained about the Tech Pack. So, I have not considered 
the Tech Pack as part of this decision. This means that Miss D is free to raise it with 
Barclays if she so wishes. But I cannot advise her about this or speculate on the possible 
outcome of any complaint she may make. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ds complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman