DRN-3494944
The complaint
Miss M complains, through her representative, that Canada Life Limited gave her unsuitable 
advice to transfer out of her defined benefit occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement.
What happened
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of 
the complaint to both parties on 1 March 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint and the reasons why the investigator didnt recommend that it should be upheld 
were set out in that assessment. But in brief, Miss M was advised to transfer the benefits 
from her occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension arrangement in 1989.  
Miss M took some of the benefits from her pension in 1999.
The advice that shed been given to transfer was subsequently reviewed by Canada Life as 
part of the regulators industry wide pension review. Canada Life completed a pension 
review loss assessment which showed that Miss M had lost out financially as a result of the 
transfer. It sent a letter to Miss M dated 22 November 2001 which offered Miss M a lump 
sum of £5,389 and an additional payment of an annuity of £639 annually. 
The letter said its offer was made in full and final settlement of any claims Miss M may
have against Canada Life arising from her pension. It explained if she accepted the offer, 
she wouldnt be entitled to make any further claims against Canada Life in connection with it. 
It also said she could seek independent professional advice before accepting the offer.
Miss M signed and accepted the firms offer. Canada Life sent a cheque for the
lump sum and set up the annuity.
Miss M subsequently complained about the matter to Canada Life through her 
representative in 2021. The representative said the advice to transfer was unsuitable. And 
said that the redress offered hadnt been calculated in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance. The representative said a calculation had been carried out on an actual 
loss basis using a retirement date of 10 June 1999. However it believed the calculation 
should have been completed on a prospective loss basis, as Miss M hadnt reached the 
OPS normal retirement age.
Canada Life didnt uphold the complaint, and it was subsequently referred to us. Our 
investigator considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
The investigator said he thought the loss calculation had been correctly completed on an 
actual loss basis. He said this was consistent with the loss assessment section of the 
pension review guidance which explained what actual and prospective losses were. 
The investigator said the guidance provided that an actual loss was an event that had 
already occurred (prior to the calculation date) such as retirement, giving rise to benefits that 
were less than those from the consumers previous OPS. So for cases where retirement had 
already occurred, the test for loss should be done at the date of actual retirement  including 
early retirement. 
Given that Miss M had retired in 1999 - prior to the loss calculation date - the investigator 
thought Canada Life had followed the guidance at the time and provided Miss M with fair 
redress.
Miss Ms representative said that Miss M didnt accept the investigators findings. The 
representative said the investigators view that the actual loss calculation was appropriate 
because Miss M had already retired wasnt correct. It said Miss M went on to work in several 
other jobs, and eventually completely retired around ten years later. It said retirement 
meant stopping work altogether. 
The investigator responded to say that the regulators guidance on pension transfers made 
several references to retirement and early retirement relating to benefit crystallisation and 
taking benefits. He said when discussing it, it was apparent the use of the word retirement 
meant taking benefits from the pension, not stopping all work. 
Miss Ms representative said that it couldnt be fair and reasonable to describe Miss M taking 
the benefits from only part of her personal pension deriving from the non-protected rights as 
retirement. It said the entire calculation had been carried out on an actual loss basis, but 
Miss M had only taken the non-protected rights benefits early. 
The representative said it was clear a prospective loss calculation should be completed for 
at least the protected rights element (and arguably the non-protected rights) which is what 
the FCAs current FG17/19 guidance dictated:
Consumers retirement age
15. The earliest age at which the customer could have retired from the DB pension scheme
without both:
requiring the consent of the employer
suffering a reduction in benefits
16. Where a customer has benefits payable from different ages, the redress calculation 
should reflect the most favourable option for the customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has complained about the suitability of the advice that she was given to transfer her 
OPS benefits in 1989. However that advice was reviewed in 2001 as part of the regulators 
industry wide review. Canada Life effectively acknowledged that the advice was 
inappropriate, and it went on to offer Miss M compensation. So I dont need to consider the 
merits of the advice to transfer itself. What Ive considered is whether the firms offer was 
fair, and whether it needs to revisit the loss calculation that it completed and the resulting 
compensation it offered to Miss M.
In the 1990s the regulator had identified there had been potentially widespread pension mis-
selling. It set up an industry wide review of pensions business conducted by firms between 
certain dates. Miss Ms transfer fell within these dates, and the advice was subject to the 
review.  The firm had a regulatory obligation to carry out its review which it did in 2001, and 
in accordance with the standards that were set out by the regulator at the time.The regulator published pension review guidance which firms had to follow when completing 
its reviews. The guidance was made up of several documents and was updated over time.  
The main issue in this particular case is whether Canada Life followed the guidance when 
completing its loss assessment. It calculated the loss on an actual loss basis, as Miss M 
took some of the benefits from the personal pension earlier than the OPS normal retirement 
age. 
There are numerous references to retirement and early retirement equating to benefit 
crystallisation and taking benefits in the pension review guidance. In my view its clear that 
the reference to retirement, for loss calculation purposes, is the date benefits were taken 
from the pension arrangement rather than when the individual retired from all work. I dont 
think interpreting it as cessation of all work would make sense - that isnt the date of 
crystallisation, and is inconsistent with the other guidance.
As I said above, Canada Life carried out the loss assessment on an actual loss basis as 
Miss M had taken her non-protected rights benefits at the date of the calculation. This was 
earlier than the former OPS normal retirement date. Firms were required to test for either 
actual financial loss or prospective financial loss  they werent required to test for both. 
In my experience the approach taken by Canada Life in this case is the same as used by 
other firms and the actuaries they instructed to carry out these pension review calculations. 
The regulator monitored the way firms carried out their pension reviews; firms were subject 
to ongoing visits and checks. The majority of transfers from defined benefit schemes 
involved protected rights following transfer. Individuals taking the non-protected rights 
benefits early and not being able to draw on their protected rights until a later date was a 
common occurrence.  Im not aware that the regulator identified that firms had failed to 
interpret the guidance correctly in these circumstances when approaching it in the same way 
as Canada Life did in this case. 
In my view Canada Life followed the regulatory standards of the time. 
Miss Ms representative has referred to the requirements outlined in the regulators FG17/9 
guidance. This wasnt published until 2017 in its initial form. Clearly Canada Life wasnt 
bound by it when it completed the loss calculation in 2001. I can take it into account more 
widely when deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
However Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the pension review wasnt carried out 
correctly when Canada Life completed it in 2001. In my view Canada Life followed the 
regulatory guidance as it was at that time and I think the approach it took when completing 
the calculation on an actual loss basis was fair and reasonable.
The pension review was a one-off exercise, and Miss M agreed a final settlement in respect 
of the inappropriate advice shed received over twenty years ago. There are only limited 
circumstances where I would look beyond that agreement. In my view Canada Life carried 
out the pension review and offered appropriate compensation to Miss M as it was required to 
do at the time by the regulator. Im satisfied that compensation was fair in all the 
circumstances. And Im not persuaded that there are grounds to require Canada Life to 
revisit the matter now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman