DRN-3813309
The complaint
Mr F complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) didnt fairly 
compensate him for car hire costs he incurred while he waited for it to carry out repairs on 
his insured vehicle.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to both parties, so Ill summarise what I
think are the key points:
Mr F made a claim for damage to his car under his Advantage car insurance policy.
Advantage authorised its nominated repairer to carry out the repairs and it retained 
Mr Fs car in storage until the work could begin  holding possession of the vehicle 
from the 22 December 2021 to 20 January 2022.
Mr F says Advantage failed to provide him with a replacement vehicle during this 
time as per the terms of his policy, so he had to hire a car himself at a cost of 
£450.72, which he asked Advantage to pay.
Advantage said that while the policy does provide a replacement car, its only while 
the insured vehicle is being repaired. Under normal circumstances this would happen 
within five working days, but Advantage argued that given the time of year and bank 
holidays, repairs, and in turn a replacement car, wouldnt have been possible until 
4 January 2022 at the earliest, which was after the time Mr F needed it anyway.
It therefore didnt agree to pay his car hire costs but it did acknowledge the time to 
repair went on longer than it expected, a replacement car was never provided and 
that there were other failings in its service. So it offered £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr F accepted the £150 compensation but still wanted his 
hire charges reimbursed.
Our investigator considered the complaint and found that had Advantage met its 
usual timescales of five working days, the date Mr F shouldve in fact been in receipt 
of a replacement car was 31 December 2021. And they acknowledged that Mr F was 
without a car for almost a month  significantly longer than five working days.
Advantage reconsidered its position on the case and said that in addition to the £150 
compensation already offered, it would pay Mr F £60.96 towards his car hire costs 
plus £10 per day for loss of use from the 5 to 20 January 2022 (£150 in total) when 
Mr F had no vehicle.
Our investigator thought this was fair, but Mr F disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to make a decision.
I thought differently to the investigators findings, so I issued a provisional decision on this 
case in November 2022. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly.
In the event of an accident and subsequent accepted claim, Mr Fs policy provides 
him with a standard class A courtesy vehicle for the duration of repairs when using 
Advantages approved repairer.
As set out above, this process usually takes around five working days. But due to 
what Advantage says was a lack of availability from its car hire providers, Mr F never 
did receive a replacement car for the entire duration he was without his vehicle.
Advantage may well have found it difficult to secure a repairer at the time of year 
Mr Fs claim was made, but that doesnt negate its obligations under the policy.
Mr Fs contract of insurance is with Advantage  not with its chosen providers. And 
their inability to meet Advantages usual timescales isnt his fault, so it stands to 
reason that he shouldnt suffer detriment because of this.
Had Advantage handled Mr Fs claim as it should have, he most likely would have 
been in possession of a replacement vehicle by 31 December 2021 and hed have 
had the vehicle until his car was repaired and returned to him on 20 January 2022.
Instead he had to pay to hire a car out of his own pocket and was then without any 
vehicle for a further 15 days. I dont think this is prompt or fair in this case and Mr F 
has incurred costs he shouldnt have as a result.
I dont think the current offer from Advantage fairly compensates him for these costs. 
It follows based on what Ive seen so far, I think differently about the steps Advantage 
needs to take to put things right in this case.
Mr F paid £450.72 for his car hire, but Im aware this was for a larger vehicle than 
wouldve been provided under his policy. And taking into consideration Advantages 
five working day timescale, he arguably had access to this car two days earlier than 
he most likely would have, had Advantage been able to arrange it.
With that in mind I think the fairest approach in this case would be to consider what 
the reasonable costs would be for a class A (or equivalent) car hire from the 31 
December to 4 January from Mr Fs actual pick up and drop off points and times.
I have no way of doing a retrospective quote for that period. But looking at the 
equivalent for this year from two providers, one of which is the provider Mr F used, 
the quotes range from £350 to £400.
In the absence of a retrospective quote, I intend to direct Advantage to pay Mr F a 
figure that sits in the middle of these amounts - £375. With the addition of 8% simple 
interest from the time Mr F paid for the car hire to the time of settlement.
I gave both parties a chance to respond before making my final decision. Mr F accepted the 
provisional decision and Advantage didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr F accepted my provisional decision and Advantage failed to respond. So in the absence 
of any further information that changes my mind my decision remains the same in this case 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. It follows I uphold this complaint and Advantage Insurance Company Limited must now take 
the steps set out in my final decision below to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited must:
Pay Mr F £375 towards the cost he paid for his car hire plus 8% simple interest* on 
this amount from the date Mr F made the payment for the car hire to the date 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited pays Mr F this settlement.
Pay Mr F £200 for distress and inconvenience  it can deduct the sum of £150 from 
this if this has already been paid to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
*If Advantage considers that its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman