DRN-2103661
The complaint
Mr C Complains that Evolution Insurance Company Limited (Evolution) unfairly refused his
claim under his roadside assistance policy.
For the purpose of this decision, where I have referred to Evolution this includes its agents 
as well.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I 
invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
Evolution responded, in summary it said:
There had been other cases of a similar nature brought to our service which hadnt been 
upheld in favour of the consumer and so it didnt agree.
Mr C responded saying he had nothing further to add and was happy with the proposed 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. However, I will explain for the benefit of Evolution why its 
response has made no difference to the outcome.
All cases that are brought to our service are done so on an individual basis and while the 
general information or claim reasons may be similar the individual circumstances of each 
case will vary. 
I havent looked at or decided any of the previous cases Evolution quoted to me and so I 
dont know the specific details of each case. Evolution hasnt provided any further evidence 
relating specifically to Mr Cs case to change my mind and Im satisfied that my findings on 
the circumstances of Mr Cs case are correct.
Putting things right
As I explained in my Provisional findings, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do here is 
for Evolution to reimburse Mr C for the costs he incurred having his car recovered by X (plus 
8% simple interest for the time hes been without the money). It should also pay him £100 
compensation for the inconvenience it caused him on the night of the claim. I say this as Mr 
C had the hassle of having to make alternative arrangements when hed bought cover that 
he thought he could rely on.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Cs complaint against Evolution Insurance Company Limited.
I require Evolution Insurance company Limited to:
reimburse the costs Mr C incurred with X plus 8% simple interest from the time of the 
claim until the date of settlement*.
pay £100 compensation.
*If Evolution Insurance Company Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman