The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how Llanelli And District Credit Union Limited (L&DCU) has handled 
an application for a loan.
What happened
Miss S visited her local branch to enquire about applying for a loan. Miss S was told she 
wouldnt be eligible, as at the time she didnt have a fixed address. Miss S says she was told 
this in the open branch and this caused her embarrassment and distress as there were other 
people in the branch at the time. She also said she felt discriminated against for not having a 
fixed address. Miss S is also unhappy that L&DCU took more than eight weeks to investigate 
her complaint. 
L&DCU say that the decision to not proceed with the loan application was within its policies 
and procedures. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt L&DCU had acted fairly and he didnt 
feel it had been discriminatory towards Miss S. He said he understood that Miss S might 
have felt embarrassed by L&DCU speaking to her in front of other customers. And although 
it may have been more appropriate for L&DCU to have discussed this privately with Miss S, 
he couldnt say it was obligated to do so. 
Miss S didnt agree, she told our investigator he hadnt understood her complaint. She didnt 
care about the loan but it was more about the embarrassment she felt when L&DCU had 
declined it in front of other customers. So the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it 
will disappoint Miss S, Im not upholding her complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss S has said she felt discriminated against for not having a fixed address. Ive looked at 
the criteria L&DCU use for loan applications and I can see that one of the requirements is 
that an applicant must have a current permanent address and provide three years address 
history. So based on this, the business hasnt made an error when it declined Miss S request 
for credit, as there is no dispute that Miss S at the time didnt have a fixed address. So she 
didnt meet its lending criteria.
I don't think the decision not to progress an application based on a lack of address can be 
considered discriminatory, as homelessness isnt a protected characteristic under the 
DRN-1120353Equality Act. On the evidence Ive seen L&DCU hasnt shown that it has treated Miss S 
unfairly. And I dont consider the requirement of having a fixed address and three years 
address history to be an unreasonable requirement, as L&DCU would need to complete 
credit checks to ensure its being a responsible lender.
Miss S has told us that she felt embarrassed to be told her application was refused in front of 
other customers. L&DCU has said that it handles all loan applications at a loan desk that is 
partitioned away from the waiting area. Miss S didnt indicate at the outset that she was 
unhappy to discuss her loan in this area. And if she felt uncomfortable she couldve informed 
the loan officer to see if other facilities were available. 
L&DCU says the conversation wouldnt have been overheard by other customers. However, 
it says once Miss S was told what was required she became angry and agitated and started 
to shout at the loan officer. 
From what Ive been told, Im not persuaded that other customers wouldve overheard the 
initial conversation. And its not unreasonable to think it likely that Miss S wouldve drawn 
more attention to herself once she started to raise her voice.  So if other customers 
overheard I dont think that can entirely be the fault of L&DCU.
In summary, although I understand why Miss S wouldve liked to have been given the 
outcome in a more private location, I dont think L&DCU acted unreasonably as they were 
not aware of how Miss S felt.
Finally Miss S has said that it took L&DCU nine weeks to respond to her formal complaint. 
Complaint handling isn't a regulated activity and isnt something we can make awards for in 
isolation. If a business takes more than eight weeks to investigate a complaint it means the 
customer can escalate their complaint to this service for an independent investigation. Im 
satisfied that this hasnt prevented Miss S from bringing her complaint to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 November 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman