DRN-3505299
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) caused damage after repairs were carried 
out as part of a claim under their home emergency policy.
What happened
On 27 June 2021 Mr and Mrs S reported a blockage in their home toilet and made a claim 
under their home emergency policy. 
The following day AWP sent out a drainage engineer who was unable to clear the blockage 
from inside the property and so went outside and removed the access cap on the soil stack 
pipe. This allowed him to clear the blockage with a mini hose. He then resealed the cap. 
On 10 July 2021 Mr S noticed some leakage from the access cap in the soil stack pipe 
outside the property. He thought it might be an expansion leakage following the repair to his 
toilet so didnt report it at that time but took a photo. He took another photo on 31 July 2021 
and reported it to AWP. Mr S thought the leak was caused by the engineer who originally 
attended to unblock the toilet. AWP said that the policy did not cover making good and that 
he should claim on his home insurance.
Mr S contacted AWP again to report that the leak was continuing. AWP said that as the leak 
was outside the property it didnt come within the terms of the policy which only covers 
internal damage. Mr S complained as he thought the drainage engineer had caused the 
damage by not correctly sealing the soil pipe when he dealt with the toilet blockage. AWP 
said there was no evidence that the engineer was responsible for the leak and declined to 
deal with the damage. 
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator thought that the 
complaint should be upheld. He said that as the leak became apparent soon after the repair 
it was likely to have been caused by the engineer. He said that AWP should carry out repairs 
or pay Mr and Mrs S the cost of carrying out the repairs themselves. He also awarded £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AWP said that there was no evidence that the engineer was responsible for the subsequent 
leak and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is not about a claim for a leak outside of their property, which 
would not be covered under their policy, but for damage caused to a soil stack pipe that they 
say was not properly sealed when the toilet was repaired. They think the engineer was 
responsible for this. 
Mr and Mrs Ss repairs were carried out by AWPs approved engineer. If the repairs werent 
done to an acceptable standard, or the engineer caused additional damage, wed expect 
AWP to put things right.
Ive not seen a report from either AWP or Mr and Mrs S detailing what the cause of the leak 
is - so Ive based my decision on the information before me. Ive looked at Mr Ss photos of 
the leaking soil pipe dated 10 July 2021 and 31 July 2021. You can clearly see that fluid is 
coming from the pipe.
Mr S is clear that the pipe had not been leaking before the engineers attendance and that 
fluid is coming from the access cap. He says that he first noticed the leak a few days after 
the repair  and hadnt noticed it sooner as it had been raining. Mr S says he didnt report it 
straight away as he thought the leak may be due to expansion leakage and that it would 
subside. He then reported it to AWP when the pipe was still leaking a few weeks later.
Ive looked at the engineers brief account of the repair and the work he carried out. He said 
that there was an access cap on the stack so removed it carefully and then siliconed the 
access cap back on. As there was no leak before the repair, and the leak was evident soon 
afterwards, I think on balance its more likely than not that the leak was caused by the 
engineer not properly sealing the cap. Its therefore reasonable to expect AWP to put right 
the damage caused by their engineer.
I also agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs S have suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the damaged pipe. They have waste water coming from the 
pipe and running across a pathway providing access to their garden. This is very unpleasant. 
It has also caused Mr and Mrs S distress and worry about the effect this is having on their 
property. I think that an award of £100 compensation is fair.
The repair work to the pipe hasnt been carried out, so I require AWP to either carry out the 
repairs, or pay Mr and Mrs S the cost of the repairs so that they can arrange for the work to 
be done.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to:
arrange for repairs to the soil stack pipe, or pay a cash in lieu sum to Mr and Mrs S to 
have the repairs carried out themselves, and
pay Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman