DRN-3158538
The complaint
Mr F complains that AWP P&C SA declined his claim to repair damage caused to his roof 
under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr F says that following a storm he noticed a small leak originating from the roof of his 
house that was coming through the bathroom ceiling. He contacted AWP. It sent a roofer to 
assess the damage. Mr F says the roofer didnt have a ladder with him. The following day he 
received a call from AWP. It told him the claim wasnt covered by his policy as the cost of the 
repair, including scaffolding, was £1,500 and the limit on his policy is £1,000. 
Mr F then contacted his home insurance provider. It assessed the damage and confirmed it 
would cost £684.76 to repair. Mr F also approached a local roofing company for a quote and 
was told it would cost £800 for the repair work, including scaffolding. 
Mr F supplied AWP with the quotes from his buildings insurer and the local roofer. He 
thought the company should be able to carry out the repairs, but instead he says it 
maintained its original decision to decline his claim. 
Mr F says his home insurance provider accepted the claim and he paid the £600 excess 
required by his policy. He says AWP should have accepted this claim, and there is no 
excess required under his home emergency policy. Because of this he wants AWP to refund 
the £600 excess payment. Hes also concerned that this claim will impact on his future home 
insurance premiums. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator decided to uphold his complaint. 
He didnt think AWP treated Mr F fairly, or that it had correctly relied on the terms of policy in 
declining his claim. He thought the company should pay Mr F £600 to cover the excess 
payment. As well as £100 in compensation for the inconvenience he was caused.
Because AWP didnt respond, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold this complaint. Let me explain. 
AWP was asked to provide information to support its account of Mr Fs complaint. 
Unfortunately, it hasnt provided any information. The final decision letter it set to Mr F in 
response to his complaint, also contains little information about the concerns he raised. 
Because no information has been supplied by AWP, I have relied on the information Mr F 
provided when considering this matter. 
The terms of Mr Fs policy define an emergency as:
A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly, will: damage, or 
cause further damage to your home or its contents.
The terms also say:
What is covered: Roofing: Damage to the roof of your home making it no longer watertight.
Mr F describes damage to his roof caused by a storm, which allowed rainwater to enter 
through the roof and leak through his bathroom ceiling. I think these circumstances 
reasonably meet the definition of an emergency, as set out above. 
The terms also say the home emergency cover provides:
Limit (up to): £1,000 - Call out, labour and material costs and overnight accommodation
And:
If you need more than the cover provided by Halifax Home Emergency, we will still offer you 
help up to the policy limits, but you will have to pay the extra costs direct to the tradesperson 
when they provide the service.
Mr F says AWP declined his claim because the repair cost was £1,500, exceeding the policy 
limit. As above, the terms dont say the claim should be declined if it exceeds the policy limit. 
Cover is still available up to this limit, with the customer liable for the rest. I dont think AWP 
acted fairly in declining the claim for this reason. 
I have also looked at what the policy says about the kind of repair the company should carry 
out. The policy terms say:
We will: Provide initial advice to you; Arrange for a tradesperson to attend your home; Pay 
up to £1,000 in total (incl. VAT) for each emergency claim incident, towards labour costs
(including call out charges, materials and parts required to effect emergency repairs in your 
home.
The following is set out under General Exclusions:
Any permanent repairs that should more specifically relate to a home insurance claim.
From the above its clear the purpose of the policy is to provide an emergency repair. The 
terms refer to permanent repairs under the exclusions section. However, the terms dont say 
a permanent repair cant be completed  only permanent repairs that more specifically relate 
to a home insurance claim. 
The company hasnt provided any information to show the kind of repair its roofer intended. 
So, we dont know if this was to replace the dislodged slate as detailed in the quotes Mr F 
obtained, or some other more temporary repair.
AWP estimated it would cost £1,500 to carry out its emergency repair. The quote Mr F 
obtained from the roofer came to £800 made up of £400 in scaffolding costs and £400 for 
labour and materials. His home insurance provider estimated the same repair would cost 
£684.76. Based on its estimate of £1,500 it seems unlikely AWP had intended to complete a 
cheaper, temporary repair. If it did, I think its reasonable to expect its estimate would be 
lower.     
In considering all of this, I think its been shown that repairs could be carried out for less than £1,000. But even if the repairs cost more than this, the policy still provides cover with Mr F 
required to pay any repair costs over £1,000. Because AWP declined the claim Mr F claimed 
under his home insurance and incurred an excess charge. I dont think AWP treated Mr F 
fairly, or that it relied on a valid exclusion to decline his claim. Because of this I think its 
reasonable that it pays him £600 to refund the excess payment charge. 
I have also thought about the impact on Mr F because AWP declined his claim. This meant 
he had to make a claim through his home insurance policy and he also contacted a local 
roofer to arrange for a quote. This was inconvenient for him and wouldnt have been 
necessary, had AWP accepted the claim. Because of this I think its fair that AWP pays £100 
to compensate Mr F for the inconvenience he experienced.  
Finally, I have considered Mr Fs concern that the claim under his home insurance policy will 
impact on his future premiums. Its not been shown that there has been an impact on his 
premium. However, I accept that a customers claims history is something insurance 
companies take into consideration when calculating the cost of insurance. Therefore, this 
claim could result in higher premiums in future.
That said, if Mr Fs home emergency claim had been accepted by AWP, it would still be 
recorded as a claim. This information would be taken into consideration by insurers when 
assessing risk and calculating future premiums. So, I dont think its been shown that his 
claim under his home insurance will have impacted differently to if his home emergency 
claim had been accepted. I dont think AWP needs to do anything more in relation to this 
point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and AWP P&C SA must now:
pay Mr F £600 in relation to the excess payment his insurer charged; and
pay Mr F £100 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman