DRN-4038118
The complaint
Mr K says Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) was negligent when it sold him a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension plan. He says he wasnt 
made aware of the differences between the options available to him at the time for 
increasing his retirement provision. He says hes suffered financial detriment as a result.
Mr K is represented by It Is Your Money (IIYM).
What happened
Mr K was a joiner/carpenter. He joined the Building and Civil Engineering Scheme (B&CE) in 
1983. The occupational pension scheme (OPS) was set up in 1982 and closed in 2001. It 
was unusual in that employer contributions built towards a Lump Sum Retirement Benefit 
(LSRB) payment for employees once they turned age 65.
Between 1986 and 2001 members of the BC&E had an option to make additional voluntary 
contributions (AVCs) to build up the lump sum benefit. Employers could also add extra 
contributions to the pension pot (but not all did).
On 12 May 1998 Standard Life provided Mr and Mrs K with financial advice across a number 
of areas including mortgage cover, income protection and pension provision. It recorded the 
following about Mr K:
You have insufficient income in retirement and wish to address this area. You have advised 
that you wish to invest a pre-determined sum of money into a Standard Life Pension Plan, 
and you do not wish to receive advice on how much funding it would take to meet your 
retirement requirements.
At the time of the advice Mr K was 39. Standard Life went on to make the following 
recommendation to him:
I recommend that you contribute £50 per month into your FSAVC as a tax efficient, flexible 
way of saving for retirement at age 65. This contribution will provide an income of £5,940 per 
annum in retirement based upon an annual rate of return of 9%. I have discussed in-house 
AVCs with you and you are aware that these may be more cost effective due to a 
preferential costing structure. You are aware that, where possible, some employers will offer 
to match a scheme members contributions. I have advised you that more information on the 
in-house options can be obtained from your employer or the pension scheme trustees. You 
have however indicated that at least one of the following benefits appeal to your situation:
-Retaining control with regard to where the voluntary contributions are invested.
-Retaining control as to how your retirement benefits will be paid.
-A facility to fund for early retirement. 
-Pension portability in the event that you may at some future date change employers.
You have indicated that you wish an investment where the potential return may be higher 
although there is an element of risk involved. You are aware that investments of this type are 
based directly on the value of the underlying markets and the value of your funds may go 
down as well as up. In order to meet your requirements I recommend you invest 100% in the 
pensions managed fund.
Standard Life sent Mr and Mrs K a copy of its financial planning questionnaire and financial 
planning report on 13 May 1998. The covering letter noted that its recommendations were 
based on the information gathered at their meeting and that they should check everything to 
make sure the details were complete and correct. The letter was sent to the correct address.
Mr K accepted Standard Lifes recommendations. From June 1998, allowing for tax relief, he 
began making contributions of about £66 per month into his plan. In April 2001 the B&CE 
scheme changed to a stakeholder pension scheme, so he was no longer eligible to continue 
contributing to the FSAVC. Payments into his plan were therefore only made between June 
1998 and 20 March 2001.
In the latter part of 2021, IIYM complained to Standard Life on Mr Ks behalf about what had 
happened in 1998. It said hed been mis-sold the FSAVC policy. Standard Life rejected his 
case saying that the adviser had brought his attention to the in-house options but that hed 
decided its pension plan was a better fit.
IIYM disagreed and brought Mr Ks complaint to this Service in January 2022. It said:
We have not been provided with any evidence that his attention was brought to the 
differences between the different options available to him at the time, most obviously the 
difference in charges between the FSAVC and In-house AVC Mr K should have, at the very 
least, been shown a working example of just how those charges would have differed. There 
is zero evidence of this and there is even less evidence to prove that he even saw the 
paperwork that has been supplied as his signature does not appear anywhere. Mr K was not 
a specialised pension actuary, or indeed working in financial services in any capacity, and 
would therefore not have had the knowledge or opportunity to know or understand that he 
may have lost out in comparison to any in house AVC option.
However, even if there was some evidence of a clear discussion and comparison between 
the options available, there is still absolutely no explanation as to why Mr K would still have 
chosen a product that was ultimately worse value than the alternatives. It is implausible to 
think that he would have!
The consumer has consequently lost out with regard to his retirement provision due to the 
poor advice given by the business.
An Investigator considered Mr Ks case and didnt uphold it. She thought Standard Life had 
done enough to show that it had adhered to the regulatory requirements placed on it at the 
time. IIYM disagreed. It said that the recommendations letter hadnt been sufficiently clear, 
for example about the cost comparison between the FSAVC and the AVC options, nor about 
Mr K seeking information about the in-house options from his employer.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ks complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. Im grateful to IIYM 
which provided further argument and some new evidence for me to consider. Ive reviewed 
its submission in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
In May 1996 the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) issued Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) 
which set out the procedures it expected product providers to follow. It said that a tied 
adviser like Standard Life shouldnt recommend its own FSAVC until it had:
- Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative.
- Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (including likely 
lower charges for AVCs and the possibility of employers being willing to top-up 
benefits).
- Directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option.
I think Standard Life understood these requirements and sought to cover them off with Mr K. 
Its also possible there was a lengthy and detailed conversation on these matters, but theres 
no record of such.
Instead what I have to refer to is the recommendations letter Standard Life sent to Mr K. The 
relevant extract is as follows:
I have discussed in-house AVCs with you and you are aware that these may be more cost 
effective due to a preferential costing structure. You are aware that, where possible, some 
employers will offer to match a scheme members contributions. I have advised you that 
more information on the in-house options can be obtained from your employer or the 
pension scheme trustees.
Unlike the Investigator, I have some reservations about the communication by Standard Life 
here. For example, referring to the cost effectiveness and costing structure of an AVC is a 
rather oblique way of saying they are usually cheaper than FSAVCs. It couldve been 
misconstrued and it shouldve been clearer.
The same is true of reference to the potential for employer contributions, which seems to be 
twice caveated  with a suggestion that sometimes this wasnt possible, in addition to the 
fact that some employers wouldnt have contributed.
Further, informing Mr K that more information about in-house options for his pension was 
available from his employer or scheme trustees, seems to me qualitatively different from 
directing him to research these matters.
In responding to my provisional decision, IIYM said:
We fully note your comments that you have some reservations about the communication by 
Standard Life and that it couldve been misconstrued and it shouldve been clearer. With the 
greatest respect, if you found it unclear and possibly open to mis construction, how on earth 
can we expect Mr K in his occupation as carpenter in a Timber yard to be able to understand 
this and more importantly to be able to make an informed decision.It is clear that the tied representative has not complied with 3 steps in RU20 and given that 
they haven't then undertaken a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and the company 
FSAVC, in line with the regulation at the time (RU20), they should not have recommended 
their own company's FSAVC irrespective of whether it was suitable in Mr K's circumstances.
IIYMs arguments are not without merit. And I understand its reference to the stance of this 
Service on some other cases. But it knows each complaint we consider turns on the 
particular circumstances of the case.
In my provisional decision I noted my reservations about how well Standard Life measured 
up to what it was required to do under RU20. But I was also mindful of Mr Ks particular 
objectives and situation. 
I think Standard Lifes recommendations letter from 1998 is far from perfect with regard to Mr 
Ks requirements, for example I find some of the rationale for his choices quite generic and 
unconvincing, such as the suggested potential use of his FSAVC to fund early retirement. 
But, from the information available, I do think aspects of what has been recorded about Mr 
Ks requirements ring true given the nature of the OPS he was a member of.
As already noted, his OPS was unusual in that at the time it only provided for a lump sum in 
retirement. Any AVCs wouldve contributed to increasing that sum, invested according to the 
Trustees direction. We also now know his employer at the time wouldnt have matched or 
made any additional contribution to the in-house AVC arrangements.
The FSAVC provided Mr K with greater control with regard to how his contributions were 
invested. And more flexibility about how his benefits would be paid  as an income not just 
restricted to a lump sum. And crucially, we know from the record that he felt his pension 
provision in 1998 wouldnt deliver sufficient income for his retirement and thats what he 
wanted to address.
So, taking all these matters in the round, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Thats because 
although there were weaknesses in Standard Lifes communications with him about the in-
house alternatives to taking out an FSAVC, Ive concluded that given his recorded objectives 
and requirements, and the type of alternative in-house provision available, the product he 
bought was more likely than not a better fit for him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman