DRN-3481560
The complaint
Miss M complains that MBNA Limited have incorrectly recorded a Q marker on her credit file 
between December 2019-October 2021.
What happened
Miss M says that she had applied for two loans with third party companies which had been 
declined. As she says she had an excellent credit score, she looked at her credit file to see if 
there was an indication why she was declined for the loans. Miss M saw that MBNA had 
applied a Q marker on her credit file.
Miss M contacted MBNA to query the Q marker. MBNA said that the Q marker was reported 
on her credit file from December 2019 when Miss M had raised a dispute on a transaction, 
but it shouldnt have showed on her credit file after January 2020, as it was resolved on 14 
January. MBNA said they would amend her credit file to reflect this. MBNA also told Miss M 
that the marker was neither positive nor negative, but if she had further information if the 
marker was negative then they would consider this information. Miss M contacted a Credit 
Reference Agency (CRA) to query whether the marker would have a negative effect.
The CRA told Miss M that the marker was negatively affecting her credit rating with them as 
it affected the overall payment history of the account. They also gave her a list of other 
factors which could affect her credit score. Miss M provided this information to MBNA and 
made a complaint to them. 
MBNA upheld Miss Ms complaint. They said based on the information provided by the CRA, 
the information they originally gave her was incorrect. To recognise this, MBNA paid Miss M 
£100 compensation. Miss M brought her complaint to our service. She detailed health issues 
she had during this timeframe and she said that MBNAs actions had caused her distress 
and inconvenience. She said she was unable to obtain a mobile phone and loans for home 
improvements to make her life more comfortable, due to MBNAs error. She wanted £1,000 
compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ms complaint. She said that there are a number of 
factors which lenders consider when accepting someones application for credit such as 
missed payment history, overall borrowing and how credit limits are managed. Our 
investigator highlighted instances of Miss M missing payments and the Q status on other 
third party accounts, so our investigator concluded that there were other factors which could 
have caused Miss Ms applications to be unsuccessful. She also highlighted that Miss M had 
been able to obtain borrowing on a number of occasions during the timeframe the Q marker 
had been reported by MBNA, so she didnt think that MBNA had solely affected Miss Ms 
ability to be accepted for credit. Our investigator said that Miss Ms credit file showed she 
took out a mobile phone contract in March 2021.
Miss M asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that the missed 
payments and her existing accounts were not relevant as she did not have any problems 
with her credit score in 2018-2019. She said that she did not take out any contracts in her 
name in 2020 and that the letter from the CRA shows why and what affects her credit score. 
Miss M said she did not take out a new phone contract in 2020-2021 and that our 
investigator had based her opinion on credit cards which Miss M had, but she was declined 
for loans, so the credit card debt was not relevant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read about Miss Ms health issues and I hope she manages to keep these under 
control as much as she can do. Miss M has made a number of points to this service and Ive 
considered and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as 
a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Miss M has said about not taking out any contracts in her name in 
2020. But that is not what her credit file shows. If there is incorrect information on her credit 
file, this could be affecting her score. If the information is incorrect, she should contact the 
companies involved to ensure only accurate information is reported on her credit file. Ive 
also considered what she said about not taking out a new phone contract in 2020-2021. The 
mobile phone company are report that an account started on 29 March 2021 (page 25-26 of 
her credit file). While this may not mean she actually took a new mobile contract out here, 
this is when they first started reporting the activity on her account. But as Miss Ms complaint 
is only about the actions of MBNA, Im only able to look into their actions and not any third 
party companies.  
Generally speaking, a Q marker on a credit file would be typically reported when an account 
is under review. As Miss M had disputed a transaction, Im not persuaded that MBNA made 
an error in initially reporting this to the CRAs. But they subsequently made an error as they 
kept reporting the Q status to the CRAs when the dispute had been resolved in January 
2020. MBNA said the Q marker could be viewed as neither a negative or positive marker. 
But some companies may interpret the Q marker to be a negative factor on someones credit 
file, such as the CRA Miss M queried this with.
But Im not persuaded this was the sole reason why Miss M was declined for the home 
improvement loans she applied for and Ill explain why. Miss M has referred us to the letter 
she received from the CRA. While they view the Q marker to be a negative marker, the letter 
also shows that in general a credit score is based on the following factors. There are seven 
factors which the CRA list. So Im satisfied that the Q marker registered by MBNA alone 
would not be the reason why Miss M was declined for the home improvement loans she 
applied for. And Ill explain why.
MBNA were not the only company to report this status. Ive looked at the credit file Miss M 
has provided us. Page 11 of her credit file shows a third party company reported a Q status 
between March-May 2020. Page 19 shows a separate third party company registered a Q 
marker between February-April 2021. These were at the same time as MBNA were reporting 
the Q marker. So I cant say that MBNA were the only company which registered this marker 
during December 2019-October 2021. 
But as the CRAs letter shows, one of the factors Miss Ms credit score is made up of is her 
payment history. So while the Q status may be one factor, it is not the only factor. Miss Ms 
credit file shows that she was in arrears on one account in July 2019 and in August 2018 she 
was in arrears on an account by two months. While Miss M may think this is irrelevant as this 
is before the Q marker was registered by MBNA, Im satisfied it is not irrelevant. I say this as 
when lenders look at a credit file, before deciding whether to lend or not, a credit score alone will not be the only factor they will consider. They would look at a borrowers payment history 
as the CRA has suggested alongside other factors. 
So as Miss M had missed three payments, some companies may view this as a negative 
factor  even if it was years ago. A credit file will show payment history for six years. So a 
potential lender would be able to see how Miss M managed her accounts during this time. 
As the CRA has said on the letter to Miss M, any companies you may apply for credit with 
have their own scoring systems that have been designed to meet their own needs.
Referring back to the letter from the CRA, another factor which would affect a credit score is 
any new accounts or credit agreements  opening several new accounts in a short period of 
time can lower your score. Again Ive looked at Miss Ms credit file and can see she opened 
several accounts within a 11 month period. Ive listed below these accounts, which were all 
credit cards. Ive also referenced the page on Miss Ms credit file if she wishes to cross 
reference these accounts:
Start date Amount of credit approved Page number on credit file
3 April 2020 £3,600 19
4 April 2020 £1,600 15
24 February 2021 £1,000 8
24 February 2021 £9,300 12
24 February 2021 £1,200 16
24 February 2021 £3,600 19
Ive considered what Miss M has said about these being credit cards when she applied for 
loans, so this is not relevant. But Im not persuaded by this. A lender would need to take into 
consideration any accounts Miss M would have. I say this as they would use this information 
to calculate potential financial commitments Miss M had and what she could afford. The 
above table shows that Miss M applied for  and was approved for six new accounts within a 
space of 11 months and four accounts on the same day. So as the CRA letter says, opening 
several new accounts in a short period of time could lower her score. 
Its also important to consider the dates of the accounts in the above table. All of these 
accounts were opened when the Q marker from MBNA was showing. So I cant say that this 
marker was such a negative influence on her account that she wouldnt be able to obtain 
credit. In the table above, Miss M was accepted for a total credit limit of £20,300 during 
these 11 months. 
As the letter from the CRA says, a factor in a credit score is any debts you may have and 
the amounts owed on these debts. So potential lenders would be aware that Miss M had 
access to £20,300 alone on the recent accounts she opened. But these werent the only 
accounts she had. Prior to the Q marker being registered, she had opened other credit card 
accounts. Our investigator detailed these for Miss M. There were five other accounts with a 
total credit limit of £18,460. So by 24 February 2021, it appears Miss M had a total credit 
limit of £38,760. This would be relevant as lenders would need to consider her existing 
commitments and available credit, even if it was a loan Miss M was applying for. She would 
have had 11 credit cards in total by 24 February 2021.As the CRA letter states, if you have a lot of accounts that are all currently active  this can 
affect your score. So Im satisfied that there were several reasons why Miss M may not 
have been accepted for a home improvement loan. While the Q marker may be a 
contributing factor to why she wasnt accepted for a loan, depending on the lender she 
attempted to get the loan from, Im satisfied it would not be the sole reason why she would 
be declined for the loans, based on the reasons Ive already given. 
But MBNA have admitted they made an error. So Ive considered the amount of 
compensation that Miss M wants - £1,000 and the amount MBNA paid her - £100. It may 
help if I explain to Miss M that compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes 
award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and 
inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. 
When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines.
The compensation which Miss M has asked for is considerably higher than our guidelines 
would allow me to award for what happened here. So Ive considered what compensation 
would be fair. Im satisfied the £100 which MBNA paid Miss M is fair and within our 
guidelines for what happened and Ill explain why.
As the letter from the CRA shows, there are several factors which affect a credit score. They 
did not say a Q marker would be the only reason why a company would decline an 
application. As Ive previously mentioned, there are a number of other factors which were on 
the CRA letter which would affect her credit score, and while Miss M may say these are 
irrelevant, a responsible lender would need to take all of these factors into consideration 
when assessing a loan application. Even an applicant with an excellent credit score could be 
declined for a loan based on the total number of active accounts and outstanding balances, 
amongst other reasons including a lenders own appetite for risk. 
There are a lot of factors which are specific to Miss Ms credit file which Ive already 
highlighted which may be more likely for her loan applications to be declined as opposed to 
the applications being declined for the sole reason of MBNA reporting a Q marker. So Im 
satisfied £100 reflects the error MBNA made by not accurately reporting the status of Miss 
Ms account, but I cant hold them solely responsible for Miss Ms loan applications declining 
for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows I wont be asking MBNA to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman