DRN-4454595
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has declined his 
accidental damage claim on the basis of non-disclosure of his previous claims. 
RSA are the underwriters of this policy and part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agents acting for it. As RSA has accepted its accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S took out contents insurance with RSA in April 2021. 
He says in March 2022 he had an accident at home where he slipped and injured himself. 
During the fall he says he was trying to stop his laptop from being damaged but 
unfortunately he wasnt able to.
Mr S contacted his insurer to report the incident. After not hearing from his insurer for some 
time the claim was declined and his policy was voided. 
The claim was declined because Mr S failed to disclose two previous claims when taking out 
the policy. He was told he would need to declare that hed had a policy voided to current or 
future insurers. 
Mr S used different comparison sites to purchase his policy so he had to answer lots of 
different questions for the various sites. He says he was asked whether he had made any 
claims in the past and he answered yes. He was then provided with a list of insurance 
quotes and he chose the one he wanted. 
Mr S says when the policy documents were received he filed them away and didnt look at 
them until he needed to make a claim. When he made the claim he was told that the policy 
was being voided due to his careless misrepresentation, and his premiums would be 
refunded. Mr S wasnt happy with the response from RSA so he complained. 
RSA said when the incident was initially reported Mr S was told there was a £100 excess for 
the claim and RSAs supplier would be in touch to arrange collection of the item. The laptop 
was collected and an inspection was attempted. But, since the hard drive had been removed 
it wasnt possible to complete all the necessary checks. 
As a result the claim was referred to the technical experts to complete a review. Following 
that referral the claim was declined. RSA tried to do a telephone interview with Mr S in May 
but were asked to put all communication in writing. RSA wrote two letters asking for an 
explanation as to the extent of the damage sustained to the laptop and the two undisclosed 
claims. Once the information was received it was referred to the underwriter who said if it 
had been aware of Mr Ps previous claims it wouldnt have offered a policy. So RSA 
refunded Mr Ps premiums and voided the policy. So it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the response from RSA so he referred the complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said RSA had provided 
evidence that had Mr S disclosed the previous claims it wouldnt have provided him cover. 
And so she was satisfied there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. RSA voided Mr Ss 
policy and refunded his premiums which it is allowed to do under the rules that apply to 
cases such as these. So the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr S didnt agree. He says he answered yes to the question about previous claims and 
doesnt know how the answer changed after that. He says RSA employed a third-party 
company to investigate the claim and so RSA is trying to do everything to avoid dealing with 
the claim. Because Mr S didnt agree the claim has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by assuring Mr S that Ive considered all the information he has provided as 
well as his comments. Ive focussed on whats relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly that RSA has treated him unfairly. But in reaching my 
conclusions Ive needed to consider the relevant law which is Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), as well as the terms and conditions of 
the policy, and the circumstances of the claim. 
Misrepresentation 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA as detailed above. This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
policy. And if a consumer fails to do this the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying one. For it to be qualifying the insurer has to show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
RSA thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the question regarding previous claims. Mr S has said he answered, yes and the 
system somehow changed his answer to no. But there is no evidence to confirm this 
happened. Mr S has said he chose the quote after going through a number of home contents 
insurance comparison sites and comparing different levels of insurance. So I think its more 
likely he keyed the wrong answer accidentally rather than it being a software issue. But 
regardless of how it happened Mr S had the opportunity to review his submission when 
completing the price comparison websites. And then again when the documents were sent 
to him after he took the policy out. I would have expected him to check the cover at that 
stage to ensure the details were correct. And I cant see he did that. 
So, Im satisfied the question asked was clear and Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. 
I will now move on to whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And what RSA 
would have done had it known the correct information. RSA has provided evidence by way of the relevant underwriting criteria which shows that 
part of the decline criteria is the previous claims. So had RSA been aware of the previous 
two claims it would not have provided cover for Mr Ss contents. And so I agree with RSAs 
view that Mr S made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
RSA has said Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless because he didnt take care to answer 
the question accurately. 
I have looked at what Mr S has said about what happened when he answered the questions 
on the website. I empathise with Mr Ss position here and can see why he is frustrated; he 
perhaps didnt appreciate the potential consequences of his actions. But I cant say RSA has 
treated him unfairly. 
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied RSA acted fairly and reasonably when declining 
the claim for the laptop. And its actions are in line with the actions it can take in accordance 
with CIDRA. 
The price comparison websites 
Mr S has said when he was asked whether he had made any previous claims he answered, 
yes. And the system somehow changed his answer to no. But there is no evidence that 
this happened, or explanation as to why or how it occurred. And in the absence of any 
corroborating evidence, as is the case here, I make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr S says he chose to take out a policy with RSA after going through a number of home 
contents insurance comparison sites comparing different levels of insurance. So I think its 
possible he did answer the question incorrectly given he was using a number of different 
sites which would all ask similar questions in different ways. 
Nonetheless RSA cant be held responsible for issues arising with the price comparison 
website. It sent Mr S the policy documents and the cover letter says, please read the 
enclosed Statement of Insurance very carefully and let us know as soon as possible if you 
need to make a change to your insurance cover or if your personal details are incorrect or 
missingincorrect information may result in your insurance being cancelled or a claim being 
rejected or not being paid in full. And Mr S didnt do this.
It isnt for the insurer to ensure the customer has answered the questions correctly. It is the 
customers responsibility to check they have answered everything correctly. Mr S had a 
chance to do this when he reviewed the answers he provided when completing the price 
comparison websites. And when the documents were sent to him after he took the policy 
out.
Instructing another company to investigate the claim 
Mr S complains RSA instructed another company to investigate the claim. But I dont think 
RSA did anything wrong. When a customer makes a claim the insurer will decide how to 
deal with it. When a claim is more complex or high value insurers will usually appoint a third-
party company to handle and investigate the claims on the insurers behalf. So I cant say 
RSA has done anything wrong here. 
RSA avoiding the claim Mr S says RSA has done all it can to avoid the claim. But I havent seen any evidence of 
this. RSA is entitled to conduct an investigation into the circumstances of the claim, and if it 
doesnt receive satisfactory evidence proving the claim, its entitled to make enquiries as it 
did here. And an insurer will always have to validate a claim before paying any settlement. 
So I dont think RSA acted unfairly here. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S is hoping for. But any decision I make must be both 
fair and impartial. And in this situation I think RSA has acted fairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman