DRN-2585943
The complaint
Miss C has complained about her property insurer Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
because it declined her claim made for two rings which had either been lost or stolen.
What happened
Miss C took her rings off in March 2020. She later couldnt find them. She searched for them 
but still couldnt find them, and was worried someone who had been staying with her at the 
time might have taken them. In April 2020 she made a claim to Gresham.
Gresham began investigating the claim. It spoke to Miss C, as well as the person whod 
been staying with her. It noted that whilst Miss C had reported the matter to the police, the 
police noted the date of loss as post-dating her notifying it of the claim. Gresham felt there 
were discrepancies and inconsistencies in Miss Cs account. Coupling that with what it saw 
as her late notification of the incident to it, it said it was declining her claim.
Miss C gave it some further information. Gresham said this didnt answer or explain its 
concerns. It maintained its decision to decline the claim. Miss C complained to us.
Our investigator noted that if Gresham wanted to rely on Miss Cs late notification to decline 
the claim, it was up to it to show it had negatively impacted the claim. He also said he felt 
Miss C had notified it of the claim in a reasonable time. Regarding inconsistencies, he wasnt 
persuaded these were material, or anything for Gresham to reasonably be unduly concerned 
about. He said the claim should be settled, with Gresham also paying Miss C £200 
compensation for upset.
Gresham said it didnt agree but gave no reasoning. It asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
late notification
The policy does require Miss C to:
As soon as you are aware of an event or cause that is likely to lead to a claim under this 
policy, you must:..
b. contact us as soon as reasonably possible.
From what I can see Miss C complied with this term. Miss C initially didnt think the missing 
rings would likely lead to a claim. But once she realised she couldnt find them, and when 
she had chance to do so given her busy lifestyle, she contacted Gresham. But even if I were 
persuaded Miss C had acted in breach of this term, Gresham would have to show that such 
a breach was material to the loss which occurred. I havent seen anything which might even 
suggest this is likely. 
inconsistencies
Gresham will be aware that this service doesnt usually find it fair for an insurer to decline a 
claim based on a list of what it perceives to be inconsistencies in a policyholders story. On 
occasion a list of inconsistencies can mean the circumstances of the loss seem to be 
unlikely to have occurred. And in that case, I am sometimes minded to accept an insurers 
decline is fair and reasonable. However, Im not persuaded that the concerns Gresham have 
raised here severely undermine the claim in that way.
Gresham notes that:
Miss C told it initially that she noticed her rings were lost when she went to put them on 
before work. But later that she said she last remembered seeing them when she took 
them off before going to work.
Miss C told it shed asked the babysitter to look for the rings. But Gresham thinks this 
makes no sense if she wore the rings to work.
Miss Cs ex-partner, who is also the babysitter/carer for their disabled son, had given a 
different version of events.
Miss C initially said her mother and her mothers husband had been staying with her 
before the loss, but had left five days before. Later she said her mother was there. Her 
mother has said she doesnt recall the date the rings were lost.
Miss C said there was another person staying at the property too. Gresham spoke to that 
person and they have said Miss Cs mother wasnt there.
The police noted the incident date as 9 May 2020, but Miss C had told it the loss 
occurred in March 2020.
Miss C has provided explanations to Gresham on these issues of concern. In short shes 
explained that English is not her first language and she thinks this is likely why Gresham 
feels her reports have differed. She also thinks the language issue may well be why the 
police recorded the date of loss as the date she called them. Miss C clarified that her 
mothers husband had left the property before the loss, but her mother was still there and 
she says she cant account for the other guests account. 
I think all of that sounds reasonable. And I bear in mind that in any account of a loss like this 
there is usually some speculation and/or a degree of uncertainty about what happened. 
Thats natural when one tries to think back and recall every day circumstances that were of 
no real importance at the time, and only became relevant at a much later date. Its also the 
case that different people will recall things differently. I also note that whilst Gresham has 
placed a fair degree of importance on the other guests account, it was this guest that Miss C 
felt may have taken the rings. There must have been some error with the police report as 
Miss C had made her claim to Gresham before May and I think its unlikely that shed have 
told the police she had lost the rings after she had made a claim for them.Miss Cs upset
Miss C has explained that shes been upset by Greshams actions. Whilst I think it was 
reasonable for Gresham to investigate the claim, I can understand that the way it broached 
its concerns with Miss C and its ultimate decline, made her feel as though she was being 
accused of dishonesty. Gresham couldve handled this better. And if it had taken a reasoned 
approach, as Ive done above, the decline of the claim couldve been avoided. Im satisfied 
that compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
   
Putting things right
Im not satisfied that Gresham has shown good reason to decline this claim. It will now have 
to settle the claim in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions.
I also accept that Greshams decline was upsetting for Miss C. It will have to pay her £200 
compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Gresham Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out at putting this right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman