DRN-1520231
The complaint
Miss I complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Mini Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mini Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss I - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss I was a new car with a price of £19,500 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Miss I in April 2016 under a hire purchase agreement that 
had a term of 48 months;
she complained to Mini Financial Services about a software issue in the central 
console that developed in November 2019 but it said that the fault hadnt been 
present when the car was supplied to her (but it did reimburse her for some 
diagnostic costs that shed incurred);
Miss I has paid another £90 for the fault to be diagnosed and she paid a 
manufacturers dealer £120 for the software issue to be fixed;
the investigator recommended that Mini Financial Services should: reimburse Miss I 
for those amounts (with interest); refund 10% of her monthly instalments since the 
fault presented; and pay her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the car had an issue which has been 
diagnosed and then fixed;
although Miss I didnt complain about the issue until more than three and a half years 
after the car was supplied to her, I dont consider that the fault has been caused by 
wear and tear or that its reasonable to expect a software fault that causes the centre 
console to not operate correctly to develop on a car that was new when it was 
supplied to Miss I and which cost £19,500; and
I dont consider that the car was as durable as it was reasonable for Miss I to expect 
it to be and, for that reason, I dont consider that the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to her.
Putting things right
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Mini Financial Services to reimburse Miss I 
for the £90 that she paid for the fault to be diagnosed and the £120 that she paid for it be 
fixed (both with interest).
Miss Is use of the car has been adversely affected by this issue and I consider that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Mini Financial Service to refund to her 10% of the monthly 
payments that she made under the agreement for the period from when the issue developed 
in November 2019 until it was fixed in February 2020.
Miss I has been caused distress and inconvenience by these events and I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mini Financial Services to pay her £100 to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Is complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Mini Financial Services, to:
1. Reimburse Miss I for the £90 that she paid for the fault to be diagnosed and the 
£120 that she paid for it be fixed.
2. Pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
3. Refund to Miss I 10% of the monthly payments that she made under the 
agreement for the period from when the issue developed in November 2019 until 
it was fixed in February 2020.
4. Pay £100 to Miss I to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mini Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 2 above. Mini Financial Services must give Miss I a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman