DRN-4086439
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Black Horse Limited (trading as Jaguar Financial Services) paid his 
broker commission for arranging a hire-purchase agreement to facilitate his purchase of a 
car. He says that the commission was not disclosed to him and paid without his consent.
Mr O is being represented in his complaint by a professional representative who Ill refer to in 
this decision as Mr Os representative.
Background
In February 2017, purchased a brand new car. The cash-price of the vehicle was 
£35,190,00. Mr O also purchased £898.00 worth of extras meaning the total amount of his 
purchase was £36,088.00. Mr O paid a deposit of £12,550.00 and the remaining £23,538.00 
was financed with a hire-purchase agreement from Jaguar. 
Under the terms of the agreement, Mr O had to pay 48 monthly rental payments of £286.12. 
And if he wished to keep the vehicle a final payment of £13,450.00, which included an option 
to purchase fee of £10. Mr O had to pay £3,635.76 in interest as well as the £10 option to 
purchase fee if he wished to keep the vehicle. This meant that the APR for the agreement 
was 4.9%. 
In May 2022, Mr O, through his representative, complained that Jaguar paid the broker he 
purchased his vehicle from commission for bringing about his hire-purchase agreement.          
Mr Os representative said that this commission wasnt disclosed and that this failure to 
disclose was contrary to Jaguars regulatory and legal obligations.
Jaguar didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that it complied with all the legal and 
regulatory obligations in place at the time. As Mr O remained dissatisfied, he referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os concerns. She didnt think that Jaguar had paid 
the broker commission and so didnt recommend Mr Os complaint be upheld. Mr Os 
representative, on his behalf, disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter 
and make a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Jaguar acted unfairly towards Mr O 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Jaguar has explained that it didnt pay any commission to the broker for bringing about            
Mr Os hire-purchase agreement. It says that Mr O purchased his vehicle during a period 
where it had an agreement with the manufacturer of Mr Os vehicle. During this campaign 
period the broker was required to offer the campaign interest rate of 4.9% APR and the only 
payment that was made to the broker was a Manufacturer Dealer Credit (MDC). This was a 
payment made by the manufacturer, rather than it as Mr Os lender, to the broker.
Mr Os representative has said that it doesnt believe that Jaguar took no commission due to 
the charges that occurred. Given the basis of the original complaint, Im giving Mr Os 
representative the benefit of the doubt here and proceeding on the basis that it doesnt 
believe that the broker, rather than Jaguar, wasnt paid a commission during this sale.
Ive thought about the evidence and arguments provided by the parties.
Having done so, I can to some extent understand why Mr Os representative has treated 
Jaguars assertion that it didnt pay the broker commission with a significant degree of 
scepticism. After all Jaguars final response to Mr Os complaint referred more to it having 
complied with its relevant legal and regulatory obligations, in relation to commission at the 
time Mr O entered into his hire-purchase agreement, rather than it not having paid the broker 
any commission at the time.    
However, our service doesnt just accept, at face value, what a respondent firm says in 
relation to a complaint. We require a respondent firm to provide evidence to back up and 
corroborate an argument and/or its version of events. In this case, Jaguar has provided a 
screenshot from its records on Mr Os account. Mr Os representative has been product with 
an excerpt of this.
Nonetheless, for the sake of completeness, Ill set out that this screenshot has the details of 
Mr Os agreement and it has an APR of 4.9% recorded (which is also repeated on Mr Os 
hire-purchase agreement) and an amount of 0.00 recorded for commission. There is an 
amount of £300.00 recorded as a MDC.
Mr Os representative says that the screenshot evidence looks like it could easily have been 
fabricated. This is an extremely serious allegation and I would expect a complainant, or 
where applicable their representative, to provide evidence to support such an allegation, 
rather than merely speculate over such a possibility.
In any event, having considered the content of the screenshot and seen that the rest of the 
information on it matches up with what is recorded on Mr Os hire-purchase agreement, Ive 
no reason to disbelief or doubt the authenticity of the record provided, or Jaguars assertion 
that it paid no commission to Mr Os broker in this case. 
Furthermore, I dont think the mere fact that Mr O paid interest on his agreement in itself 
automatically means that the broker must have been paid commission either. A lender will 
often pay commission to a broker for arranging a credit agreement. But this wont always be 
the case. 
In this instance, Im satisfied that the records Jaguar has provided show that it didnt pay the 
broker commission for introducing Mr O and bringing about his hire-purchase agreement. I 
dont think the fact that Mr O was required to pay interest on his agreement contradicts what 
the screenshot says, calls into question its accuracy, or necessarily means that it must follow 
that commission had to have been paid in this case.    
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Jaguar did pay Mr Os broker 
commission and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr O  especially as Jaguar didnt make its position clear from the outset. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I think Jaguar hasnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him in this instance.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman