DRN-3642311
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited (Rowanmoor). 
Represented by a claims management company (CMC), Mr C says it failed in its regulatory 
duties to carry out sufficient due diligence checks when accepting his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) application.
Mr C says Rowanmoor should have had concerns about the business which introduced his 
application and accepting the investments which have resulted in him suffering losses
Background
The parties referred to in this complaint
BLT Financial Services Limited (BLT)
The FCA database states that BLT was an appointed representative of Burns-Anderson 
Limited and regulated from 24 December 2001 until 1 July 2010.
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited (Rowanmoor)
Rowanmoor is a regulated pension provider and administrator. It is authorised to arrange 
deals in investments, deal in investments as principle, establish, operate, or wind up a 
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to make transactions in 
investments.
The Harlequin Group (Harlequin)
The Harlequin group of companies were involved in the promotion, development and 
distribution of off-plan overseas property investments and resorts  primarily based in to 
Caribbean.  None of these companies were regulated by the FCA (or its predecessor, the 
FSA).
Harlequin Management (South East) Limited promoted the investment to UK investors, 
either directly or through a network of agents and financial advisers.  Investors could invest 
into resorts developed in the Caribbean in the hope of purchasing an individual hotel room, 
apartment, cabana or villa.
The developments failed and funds invested were not always used as intended.  In March 
2013 the Serious Fraud Office, in conjunction with the police, started investigating the 
Harlequin Group of companies.  Harlequin Management (South East) Limited subsequently 
went into administration and some senior figures involved with the companies are facing 
prosecution.
Green Oil Plantations Australia Limited (Green Oil)
Green Oil offered investors the opportunity to invest in a 20-year land licence
in Cairns, Australia. Green Oil would rent this land from the investor for the purpose of
growing Millettia trees, which could grow in infertile soil and required less water than
equivalent bio-fuel crops such as Palm and Jatropha trees. 
Green Oils intention was that the trees would provide green oil and a range of by-products. 
The annual returns promised went from 4% in the first year of investment to 17% and above 
in the fourth year.
What happened
On 5 March 2010 BLT wrote to Rowanmoor enclosing the following documents:
A Rowanmoor SIPP application signed by Mr C dated 4 March 2010. This set out 
that an individual from BLT was acting as his independent financial adviser (IFA).
An adviser fee agreement which was also signed by Mr C dated 4 March 2010, with 
the adviser receiving 4% of the transfer value and then 0.5% annually on the SIPP 
anniversary.
Mr C transferred two occupational pensions into the SIPP once it was established, in the 
sums of around £71,000 and £25,000.
On 24 March 2010 BLT provided Rowanmoor with schedules for the Harlequin properties 
and the investment contracts.
On 26 March 2010 Rowanmoor wrote to Mr C providing a warning about the Harlequin 
investment and it asked him to let them know if he was going to be seeking legal advice. 
He said he wasnt, signing and returning the risk notice which said:
with all property purchases, we strongly recommend that, before acquiring the 
property, appropriate legal and other professional advice in the matter is taken, as 
this may prevent issues going forward. And reduce the possibility of incurring 
unnecessary costs in the future. If you do not wish to appoint a legal 
representative, then please sign and return the enclosed copy of this letter in 
confirmation.
On 17 April 2010 Mr C wrote to Rowanmoor explaining that he I understood there would be 
penalties in transferring his occupational pensions but asked it to proceed anyway.
On 15 June 2010 the Harlequin contracts had been signed in relation to:
PCBBSG.4 - Buccament Bay, St Vincent, with a deposit of £37,500.
PCBBSG.5  Buccament Bay, St Vincent, with a deposit of £37,500.
The total purchase price for each property was £125,000 with a £1,000 reservation fee paid 
and a target completion date of 31 December 2012.
In October 2012 Mr C made a subsequent investment of £10,000 into Green Oil. On 16 
October 2012 he signed the investment application form. The form detailed an individual as 
agent, but no FSA regulatory number was provided nor firms name. 
On 8 November 2012 Rowanmoor wrote to Mr C with a risk warning letter which he signed 
on 9 November 2012 to say he was not going to appoint legal advisers.As with all investments we would strongly recommend that before proceeding, 
you take appropriate legal and other professional advice in the matter, as this may 
prevent issues going forward, and highlight any risks involved the transaction.
On 15 November 2012 Rowanmoor contacted BLT to ask them to confirm that Mr C agreed 
with the £250 fee which was to be added to the £10,000 investment amount. They didnt 
receive a response from BLT. At this point BLT were no longer a regulated firm.
On 26 March 2013 Rowanmoor wrote to Mr C to let him know that the investment had 
completed.
Both investments subsequently failed, and Mr C has lost the funds. He made a successful 
claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the advice he was 
given by BLT, but I understand the compensation he received was below his total loss due 
to its award limits. Under the terms of the reassignment of rights granted by FSCS, Mr C 
would need to repay them out of any compensation he gained elsewhere.
Mr Cs complaint
The CMC, on behalf of Mr C, complained to Rowanmoor about the due diligence it carried 
out when accepting his business in around March 2010. It said Mr C is a retail, not 
sophisticated, investor, who had a low risk profile with little or no investment experience. By 
permitting a transfer to an unsuitable pension and the subsequent purchase of a high risk, 
unsuitable illiquid investment caused Mr C a significant loss. 
In summary, it said that Rowanmoor failed:
to meet its statutory requirements and duty of care as trustees,
to meet regulatory requirements,
to carry out adequate due diligence checks on the investment and failed to protect 
the Mr C by accepting a very high-risk alternative investment, and
to complete adequate due diligence on the introducer.
Rowanmoor responded to Mr Cs complaint. It didnt uphold his concerns, and in summary 
said that it:
does not advise on any particular investments, it insists that all SIPP investment 
business must be advised on by independent IFAs. Mr Cs application form had the 
name of an adviser from BLT noted as his IFA with permission to carry out 
investments/disinvestments,
is not responsible for advice provided by the IFA. The decision that was made to 
invest in Harlequin and Green Oil was based on advice from BLT,
accepts Mr C is a retail client and consumer,
does have corporate governance and due diligence procedures which have always 
been in keeping with regulatory requirements and compatible with what is now 
principle 2 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) principles for business which 
require all firms to conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence,was satisfied the investment assets were satisfactory considering the involvement of 
BLT.
undertook its own due diligence on the investment and satisfied itself there was no 
reason to reject the investments,
complies fully with the 6 Treating Customers Fairly consumer outcomes,
checked the IFA firm in question and the individual adviser against the FSA register 
at the time, and it didnt meet Mr C in person or speak over the telephone to discuss 
the investment choice. 
Mr C didnt agree with Rowanmoors response and so the complaint was referred to this 
Service for consideration. 
Our investigators assessment
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and reviewed everything. She concluded 
that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.  In summary she noted:
Rowanmoor said it only accepted business via regulated advisers, but it didnt have 
an introducer agreement in place with BLT, and by October 2012 when Mr C 
invested into Green Oil, BLT were no longer regulated.
Initial checks were carried out by Rowanmoor on Harlequin and the investment was 
reviewed and accepted by its technical team in 2009.  But its documented that there 
were considerable concerns with the Harlequin investment before Mr C made his 
investment.
The investigator felt that had Rowanmoor carried out appropriate checks and reached 
reasonable conclusions based upon those checks, it would not have accepted Mr Cs 
business.  So, she suggested a means of compensation to put things right and compensate 
Mr C for his losses.
Mr C accepted the investigators view and made no further comments.
Initially Rowanmoor confirmed it also accepted the investigators view and would calculate 
the redress payable to Mr C.  But following a couple of months of waiting for Rowanmoor to 
provide the calculation and pay compensation, it subsequently asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman.
Rowanmoor didnt make any further comments for consideration, but said:
While I realise we might previously have indicated that we would accept this 
adjudication, I think we would prefer to have it formally confirmed by an Ombudsman
Accordingly, the complaint has been passed to me to review and make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Whilst I have reviewed and considered everything afresh and in full, I have only referred to 
the key issues central to my decision.  In doing so, I note that Rowanmoor previously 
confirmed it accepted the conclusions reached by the investigator in the case and has made 
no further representations in relation to those conclusions.
So, where I consider it appropriate and my conclusions are broadly the same as the 
investigator, I have repeated some of the content from the initial adjudication in support of 
my decision.
What are the relevant considerations?
At the time Mr Cs application form was accepted by Rowanmoor the regulator was the 
Financial Services Authority. Later, the regulator became the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). For ease of reference Ive referred to the FCA throughout. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that 
the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It 
cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it wouldve refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley 
Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated its client 
fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, 
and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, I dont 
say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken 
account of both judgments when considering this complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain Principles, and that this 
rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options 
SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was 
actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this 
claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of 
Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS 
claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment 
of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the 
agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and functions in the 
transaction.
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Cs case, including Rowanmoors role in the transaction.  
Ive considered what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, as above, take into account relevant considerations which include: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams 
v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr 
Adams statement of case.  
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Cs complaint.
Rowanmoors role
I accept that Rowanmoor did not and could not give advice to Mr C. I have conducted my 
assessment on the understanding that Rowanmoor was not required to assess the suitability 
of the transaction for Mr C individually.
Instead, I am assessing whether Rowanmoor acted fairly and reasonably in relation to its 
distinct obligations to Mr C as a client or potential client, applying the Principles, regulation 
and regulatory publications that I have laid out above as a guide.
Its apparent to me from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, 2013 guidance and the "Dear 
CEO" letter in 2014 that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into their business models already. In addition, the regulator 
continued to express disappointment with SIPP operators' failure to have implemented such 
practices.
Taking everything into account, I'm satisfied Rowanmoor should have thought carefully 
about:
Whether accepting the business from BLT was treating Mr C fairly; taking reasonable 
care; and acting with due skill, care and diligence.
Whether accepting the investment into Harlequin or Green Oil was treating their 
customer fairly; taking reasonable care; and acting with due skill, care and diligence.To accept everything that came its way and ask Mr C to accept warnings absolving them of 
the consequences wasn't enough. Declining to accept business doesn't amount to advice 
and Rowanmoor could have declined to accept the SIPP application and/or individual 
investments without giving investment advice. I therefore need to consider whether 
Rowanmoor gave enough thought to the nature of Mr C's referral to it and the investment 
that was being requested. And whether it ought to have been aware that the nature of the 
business and/or the nature of the investment meant it shouldn't accept it as there was a 
strong possibility of consumer detriment.
Rowanmoors due diligence on the introducer, BLT
Rowanmoor has said that it only accepts business via a regulated IFA. When initially 
accepting Mr Cs business in March 2010 to open a new SIPP and make an investment into 
Harlequin, Rowanmoor checked that BLT and the adviser noted within the SIPP application 
form were regulated by the FSA. It didnt have an agreement in place with BLT setting out 
the basis for their relationship and mutual obligations  and it confirmed this wasnt 
something it arranged with introducers. 
In October 2012 when Mr C made an investment into Green Oil, BLT were no longer 
regulated to provide advice. It appears this transaction was carried out with no regulated 
adviser involved. 
Rowanmoors due diligence into the Harlequin investment
Rowanmoor has confirmed that it undertakes checks upon the body corporate promoting the 
investment, the investment structure and establish good title to any investment can be 
obtained. They check that the investment wont give rise to any unauthorised payment 
charge and that holding the investment doesnt create exposure beyond the investment 
amount. 
Ive seen internal email conversations between Rowanmoors technical team, one of the 
larger introducers of the Harlequin investment to Rowanmoor and with Harlequin directly. 
Within these emails Rowanmoor discuss its concerns and the risks it feels are associated 
with accepting the Harlequin investment into its SIPPs. 
Our investigator set out considerable detail of those emails and risks in her assessment of 
the complaint.  Both Rowanmoor and Mr C have seen the relevant quotes from the email 
correspondence and neither have made any comment in response, so I will not repeat 
everything in full here.  But in reaching my decision I have considered everything set out in 
that assessment.
In summary, the emails demonstrate that Rowanmoor had concerns about:
potential liability for the full Harlequin purchase price, where the SIPP is only being 
used to fund the 30% deposit.
how the balance of the Harlequin purchase price would be funded.
the fact that in some instances Harlequin didnt have title to land or all consents to 
enable development to proceed.
the possibility that the structure could result in fractional ownership of the Harlequin 
investment.how a customer would be able to liquidate the asset if held in joint ownership.
the impact of fees in comparison to the SIPP value.
possible difficulties in recovering monies to the scheme in the event of the developer 
going bust before the development being completed.
More generally, individuals at Rowanmoor passed comment within the email communication 
to suggest they recognised there were risks.  For example, in relation to the SIPP funds only 
covering a deposit for the Harlequin investment and requiring finance for the balance, on 
employee said said:
My own personal opinion is that if you only have £30K in a pension you can't afford an 
offshore villa. Get over it and invest somewhere else!
In another email an employee of Rowanmoor repeatedly referred to Harlequin as sneaky 
and had concerns about the transparency of the Harlequin investment agreement.
What, acting fairly and reasonably should Rowanmoor have done?
Rowanmoor carried out a variety of checks in completion of its due diligence into the 
Harlequin investment. It did lots of the things the regulator expected of it  such as  
checking that Harlequin had title over the land, requesting copies of planning permissions, 
having open discussions with Harlequin and asking lots of questions about the business 
model and how the financing would work.
Rowanmoor also acknowledges that its obligations went further than just checking the 
investment was SIPPable.  But, having made those enquiries, I dont think it reached the 
correct conclusion. 
It continued to accept business without some of the concerns it had being answered or 
addressed. About the way the investment was being marketed to consumers, the way it 
was structured, the lack of legal advice obtained to cover the risk to themselves or their 
consumers, what would happen should there not be finance available to complete and the 
type of consumers who they saw were investing into Harlequin.
So, having identified the risks, accepting they had obligations they should have done more 
to protect Mr C from the possibility of consumer detriment. I think had Rowanmoor acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr C, it ought to have refused to accept his application and 
investment. I think it had enough information available to it to conclude that allowing the 
transfer and investment would create a high chance of consumer detriment.
Rowanmoor had growing concerns about Harlequins actions as a reputable and trusted firm 
to do business with. It internally discussed not trusting Harlequin to be transparent with its 
contract amendments, referred to it as sneaky and thought it may be trying to find ways to 
get around restrictions Rowanmoor were trying to put into place. This ought to have made 
Rowanmoor even more cautious about Mr Cs transaction.
Rowanmoor also expressed concerns about the lack of legal advice which had been 
sought other than by Harlequin themselves. It detailed why this was a concern within their 
internal communications clearly. It was suggested that they ought to insist that consumers 
sought independent advice  but they didnt pursue that avenue. Instead they asked 
consumers to sign a waiver without explaining the risks to them in full of there having been 
no independent legal advice in the transaction (as they described and had considered 
internally).The documentation from the time expresses consistent concerns about how consumers 
would be able to fund the remaining stage payments to completion. In order to circumvent 
this Rowanmoor sought to protect itself by limiting the liability of the pension scheme to the 
funds value. It identified the risks in fractional ownership and expressed dissatisfaction with 
the model a competitor was using to accept a SIPP and personal contract alongside one 
another. However, Rowanmoor itself went on to create a situation where a personal 
guarantee was needed, whereby should the scheme not have been able to meet the 
payments the consumer would enter into a personal contract and incur personal liability for 
a percentage of the investment.
It simply said it expected consumers to make the stage payments as they became due. I 
dont think this went far enough, I dont think its reasonable for Rowanmoor to have 
identified a concern and simply looked to protect itself from the risk. There was no 
exploration of reassurance of whether a consumer could even secure the funds needed 
from any source to meet contractual obligations and make staged payments.
I think treating Mr C fairly and making sure he was not exposed to the likely chance of 
consumer detriment meant they should have done more to satisfy themselves that the 
consumers would also be protected.  Rowanmoor was clearly in a position to have known 
more about the risks and pitfalls than Mr C.
It became evident to Rowanmoor that rolling up stage payments until completion was a 
large selling point of the investment. By the time of Mr Cs application, it had also 
communicated with some of its consumers who let it know they had no intention of needing 
to provide additional funds into the scheme for fees or stage payments. It wasnt enough 
for Rowanmoor to know these facts but not act on them other than to simply say they 
expected consumers to make stage payments. Rowanmoor had enough knowledge about 
the business they had been receiving to conclude that a large proportion of consumers 
would struggle to meet the remainder of the investment payment.
Im not suggesting Rowanmoor ought to have considered whether or not Harlequin was 
suitable for each individual consumer. It may be that in some cases a regulated adviser did 
assess this for consumers  but in this case Ive seen nothing to show Rowanmoor sought 
that reassurance or asked to see suitability letters to address those concerns.
Again, Im not saying that Rowanmoor should have provided advice, but instead it should 
have ensured no consumer detriment by sense checking the transaction overall. Had 
Rowanmoor asked Harlequin for more information about the friendly lender mentioned by 
them, or for suitability reports to show how Mr C intended on making the stage repayments 
it would have had received confirmation of their concerns. Treating Mr C fairly it ought to 
have refused to accept his SIPP application via which it understood his intention of 
investing into Harlequin.
Investment into Green Oil
Mr C made a subsequent investment into Green Oil in October 2012. As set out above I 
dont think Rowanmoor should have accepted Mr Cs application and so a SIPP would never 
have been set up. Mr C transferred his second pension into the SIPP to cover the small 
shortfall between the Harlequin deposits. Had this not occurred then the additional funds 
would not be held in the SIPP to be invested  so, the investment wouldnt have gone 
ahead. 
For that reason, I have not gone on to consider the due diligence carried out in full at the 
time of this investment. However, BLT was no longer regulated  and Rowanmoor have said it doesnt accept direct investment business. In addition, it asked an expert for their opinion 
on the claims Green Oil was making in relation to the return on the investment. That expert 
said the following:
Essentially I find it impossible that one tree will carry 1 ton of seeds.
Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable to say the Green Oil investment wouldnt have 
gone ahead but for Rowanmoors failures, and so consider that Mr C should be 
compensated for those losses within the complaint.
Is it fair to ask Rowanmoor to pay Mr C compensation in the circumstances?
Rowanmoor failed to carry out appropriate due diligence in relation to Mr Cs business, nor 
did it reach the right conclusions from the information that was available to it.  I understand 
that another regulated party (BLT) was involved here, but Im looking at Rowanmoors 
separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive explained, I think it failed to meet 
those responsibilities.
But for Rowanmoors failing, Mr Cs pension switch and investments would not have been 
made in the first place. So, Im not asking Rowanmoor to account for losses that go beyond 
the consequences of its failings.
Mr C has already received some compensation from the FSCS for failings by BLT. But under 
the terms of the reassignment between Mr C and the FSCS, Mr C is contractually bound to 
repay the FSCS from any compensation he receives from Rowanmoor.
It was necessary for Mr C to accept the terms of the reassignment set by the FSCS in 
order for him to pursue the balance of his losses.  So, I dont think that was an 
unreasonable thing for him to do and, as he will be required to repay the compensation 
received from the FSCS from any compensation he receives from Rowanmoor, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable for me to not take the reassignment into account. 
I also note that my conclusions in this decision are in line with what was recommended by 
the investigator in the case.  Both Mr C and Rowanmoor agreed with those 
recommendations some months ago  but its only recently that Rowanmoor asked for an 
ombudsmans review and final decision.  But it did not provide any further information 
disagreeing with the investigators view for further consideration.  So, Im satisfied the fair 
compensation set out below and previously agreed by both parties is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint.
Fair compensation
To put things right, Rowanmoor should:
Calculate and compensate Mr C for the loss he has suffered as a result of making 
the transfer.
Take ownership of the investments if possible.
Pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Ill explain how Rowanmoor should carry out these calculations below:
Calculate the loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the transferRowanmoor must undertake a redress calculation in line with The FCAs pension review 
guidance in October 2017 (https: //www.fca.org.uk/publicat ion/finalised- guidance/fg17-9.pdf) 
using the most recent financial assumptions published.
Rowanmoor may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or SP2).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional deduction should be 
calculated using Mr Cs marginal rate of tax in retirement. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at a rate of 8% per year simple from the date of decision to the date of settlement for 
any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Rowanmoor to pay Mr C.
Its possible that the data gathering for the SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual 
time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period for settlement above  and so any period 
of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from 
DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Take ownership of the investment(s)
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, the investment needs to 
be removed from the SIPP. If Rowanmoor is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments 
the value should be assumed as nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Provided Mr C is compensated in full, Rowanmoor may ask him to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the investments. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr C may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP.
If Rowanmoor does not take ownership of the investments, and they continue to be held in 
his SIPP, there will be ongoing administration fees in relation to the SIPP. Mr C would not be 
responsible for those fees if Rowanmoor hadnt accepted the transfer of his pension 
provision into the SIPP. So, I think its fair for Rowanmoor to waive any SIPP fees until such 
time as Mr C can dispose of the investments and close the SIPP.
Trouble and upsetMr C has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money Mr C cannot afford to lose and its loss has caused him to lose all 
confidence in pension providers. I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to 
compensate for that upset.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Rowanmoor 
Personal Pensions Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and or costs that I think are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
The full extent of Mr Cs losses have not yet been calculated (as set out above), but it is 
possible his loss may exceed the £150,000 award limit.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Rowanmoor should pay Mr C the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000. It should also pay any interest 
accrued if the compensation is not paid within 90 days of acceptance of a final decision by 
Mr C as detailed above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Rowanmoor pays Mr C the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Rowanmoor doesnt have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court for 
the balance. Mr C may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman