DRN-3237063
Complaint
Mr K has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr K bought solar panels for his home in 2019. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr K into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr K, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Ikano didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr K was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr K fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mr K
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr K from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr K is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Ikano needs to reimburse Mr K accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr K by way of explanation.  
I understand If Mr K has settled the loan, So Ikano should pay Mr K the difference between 
what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr K first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman