DRN-2020527
The complaint
Mr M complains about Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (SBI) and their 
decision to cancel his car insurance policy and chase him for outstanding fees.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M bought a car insurance policy through a comparison website. The policy 
was sold by SBI but underwritten by another insurance company, who Ill refer to as W. After 
purchasing the policy, SBI asked Mr M to provide a proof of his no claims discount as the 
policy sold was based on him having two years.
Mr M responded explaining he had two years on his last insurance policy. But that was two 
years ago, and he hadnt been insured in the time since. SBI explained this meant hed need 
to start again with zero years no claims discount. And as this information changed the risk to 
the W, they exercised Ws right to cancel the policy.
The policy was cancelled on 12th August 2019, and SBI contacted Mr M to explaining there 
was an outstanding balance of £201.90 he needed to pay. Mr M was unhappy with this, as 
he felt the policy had been cancelled unfairly. SBI called Mr M to explain why there was an 
outstanding balance and directed Mr M to contact W to discuss the cancellation as it was W 
who exercised their right to cancel. Mr M followed these instructions and complained to W.
W issued a response to Mr M in October. In this response, they upheld his complaint as they 
thought SBI shouldve changed the no claims discount information and allowed for the 
continuation of the policy. This response was also sent to SBI. 
SBI contacted W to ask whether they were now expected to waive the fees Mr M owed in 
full. And they questioned whether they were now expected not to cancel any policies on Ws 
behalf. W responded explaining the cancellation fee of £75 should be waived. But that the 
other fees remained outstanding. They also confirmed SBI has taken the correct course of 
action when cancelling the policy, suggesting W had made an error when responding to Mr 
Ws complaint. So, SBI reduced the outstanding balance to £126.90 and contacted Mr M to 
arrange payment. Mr M was unhappy there was still a fee to pay as W had confirmed the 
policy shouldnt have been cancelled. So, he raised a complaint.
SBI responded and didnt uphold it. They explained theyd calculated the outstanding 
balance in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, they thought the fee remained 
payable. They acknowledged the conflicting information in Ws final response but explained 
W had confirmed theyd taken the correct course of action when cancelling the policy. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr W didnt agree, and he thought SBI 
were acting unfairly by not honouring the information provided in Ws final response. So, he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought the fees SBI were 
charging were reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy. He also understood there 
had been conflicting information between W and SBIs responses to Mr Ms complaint. But 
he explained Ws response had a number of factual errors. And hed seen W had confirmed 
to SBI after their response that the policy had been cancelled fairly as theyd expect. So, 
when considering these together, he thought SBI had cancelled the policy fairly. Because of 
this, he didnt think SBI needed to do anything further. 
Mr W didnt agree. He remained unhappy that SBI only issued a response to his complaint 
after W had said the policy was cancelled unfairly. He didnt think it was fair for him to be 
impacted negatively by the inconsistencies between the two decisions and thought SBI had 
a responsibility to follow the decision W made. He felt SBI were using his situation to change 
the process they follow when information needs to be altered to a policy and didnt think this 
was fair. He maintained Ws response was correct and SBI were wrong to issue another 
response that countered this and allowed them to continue charging him for a fee. As Mr M 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mr M. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting to realise his insurance had been cancelled. Especially when Mr M had given 
SBI what he believed at the time to be the correct no claims discount information. And I can 
understand why this wouldve been worsened when he became aware he was expected to 
pay an additional amount towards a policy he could no longer use. And I can appreciate the 
confusion hes been caused by the inconsistencies in the responses hes had from SBI and 
W. But my decision focuses solely on SBI and the service theyve provided. So, for me to 
say theyve done something wrong, Id need to see that theyd cancelled the policy unfairly 
or that the fees theyre chasing Mr M for are unfair and arent in line with the terms of the 
policy Mr M took out. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first looked at SBIs decision to cancel Mr Ms policy and whether this was fair. As if it 
wasnt, it wouldnt be reasonable to charge fees associated with the cancellation. Its not in 
dispute that the policy Mr M took out was based on him having valid two years no claims 
discount. And its not in dispute that this discount wasnt valid as Mr M hadnt been insured 
for the previous two years. No claims discount is based on continuous insurance periods 
where no claims were made. 
But Mr M feels it was unfair to cancel the policy and that the policy shouldve been amended 
instead to reflect that he had zero years no claim discount. Im aware this is the information 
W provided to him directly in their response to his complaint so I can appreciate why he 
thinks this is correct. But, crucially, Ive seen W confirm to SBI after their response to Mr M 
that they expect SBI to cancel any policy where the no claims discount is reduced to zero.
So, I cant say that SBI have acted unfairly when cancelling the policy. And although I 
understand Mr Ms position that SBI shouldve followed Ws instructions in the response they 
sent to him, I think its clear that Ws response contained errors. Alongside the mis-
information about how the change in no claims discount shouldve been handled, they also 
included the incorrect number of days Mr M was on cover for. I think it was reasonable for 
SBI to ask W to clarify their findings in the response they issued due to these errors. And I 
dont think it would be fair for me to say theyve done something wrong by doing so.As I think SBI acted reasonably when cancelling the policy, in line with the agreement they 
had with W, Ive then considered whether the £126.90 they are charging is fair. The terms 
and conditions of the policy explain that, when a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day 
cooling off period, they will return any amount a customer has paid them after theyve 
deducted the premium for the time the customer was on cover, their annual policy 
arrangement fee, a direct debit arrangement fee and a cancellation charge. Im aware SBI 
waived the cancellation charge on the instructions of W so this hasnt been included.
SBI charged Mr M £44.93 for the 27 days he was on cover, £140.68 for their annual policy 
arrangement fee and £50.00 for the direct debit arrangement fee. These charges all fall in 
line with the terms of the policy. Mr M was also charged an interest amount of £43.19 by a 
third-party finance company. As this wasnt charged by SBI, Im unable to direct them to 
waive this amount. So, in total, the total fees Mr M owed SBI amounted to £278.80.
Mr M had already paid SBI a deposit of £76.36 and a premium payment of £75.54, which 
together totalled £151.90. When these payments were offset against the total deductions 
SBI were charging, it left an outstanding amount of £126.90. So, I think SBI calculated the 
outstanding fee fairly and reasonably.
And the terms and conditions of the policy explain that Where the amount that you owe 
exceeds the amount that you have paid us, you will be required to make payment for the 
outstanding amount with 14 days. Failure to do so may result in {SBI} taking steps to recover 
the debt. So, I think SBI acted fairly, in line with the policy, when asking Mr M to make the 
payment of £126.90. And if the amount wasnt paid, they were able to recover the debt in a 
way they saw fit. Because of this, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably and I dont think 
they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Somerset Bridge 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman