DRN-4322760
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr V was supplied with a new car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. He paid an advance payment of £2,000 and the agreement was for £22,895 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £389.50 and a final payment of £9,130.50.
In February 2023, the car broke down due to a problem with the gears. It was recovered to 
the supplying dealership and repaired. While the car was being repaired, Mr V was supplied 
with a like-for-like courtesy car.
The car broke down again on 15 May 2023, due to the same issue with the gears. It was 
again recovered to the dealership for repair, but Mr V contacted Santander and asked to 
reject the car. Santander said Mr V couldnt reject the car, as this was the first time they 
were aware there of any issues. And they said the dealership would repair the car instead. 
Mr V was supplied with a courtesy car for the period of this repair  around four weeks  but 
the courtesy car was much smaller than the car supplied by Santander.
Mr V wasnt happy with whatd happened, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said they were satisfied there was a fault with the car, and that an attempted 
repair by the supplying dealership had failed. Because of this, he thought Mr V had the right 
to reject the car under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). So, he said that Santander 
should take the car back; end the agreement; refund the deposit Mr V paid, plus statutory 
interest; and pay Mr V an additional £200 for the inconvenience hed suffered.
Santander didnt agree with the investigator. They said the car had now been repaired and 
returned to Mr V, and there was no indication that the second repair had failed. So, they 
thought Mr V had a change of heart about keeping the vehicle, which is now in working 
order. They also said that, because Mr V hadnt raised the issue with them until May 2023, 
the second chance at repair was actually their first opportunity to repair the car, and theyve 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
After Santander asked for an ombudsmans decision, Mr V advised us that the car has 
developed an additional fault, albeit one not related to the gear issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr V was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Santander are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr V to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr V took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the cars gears, nor that this fault 
was present when the car was supplied to Mr V. As such, Im satisfied that I dont need to 
consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, Ill focus on what I think 
Santander should do to put things right.
Ive seen Santanders case notes for 15 May 2023, when Mr V first contacted them about the 
issues he was having. And its clear from this that a failed repair had already happened, and 
that Mr V was now looking to reject the car. Ive also noted Santander responded to Mr Vs 
complaint the day after they received it  before a second attempt at repair had taken place.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the dealership AND a single chance of repair for Santander  the first attempted repair is the 
single chance at repair. Whats more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if 
those faults arent related, the single chance of repair has already happened  its not a 
single chance of repair per fault.
In this instance, the single chance of repair took place in February 2023 by the dealership. 
And this repair failed. So, when Mr V contacted Santander in May 2023, asking to reject the 
car as the single chance of repair had failed, Santander were in breach of the CRA by telling 
Mr V that they also had the opportunity to repair the car  the CRA doesnt require Mr V to 
advise Santander of the fault before the dealership attempted repair.Given this, Im satisfied that Mr V still has the right to reject the car. And, as he told 
Santander that he wanted to reject the car as soon as the fault reoccurred, it cant be said 
that hed just had a change of heart about keeping the vehicle.
Its also the case that Mr V is now complaining about further faults with the car. And, while 
these may be unrelated to the issues with the gears, this doesnt mean that Santander have 
another chance to repair these faults.
So, given all the above, I think that Mr V should be allowed the opportunity to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr V has been able to use the car while its been in his possession. And while it was being 
repaired, he was also provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile. Because of this, I 
think its only fair that he pays for this usage. So, I wont be asking Santander to refund any 
of the payments hes made.
However, its clear that Mr V has been inconvenienced by having to arrange for the car to be 
repaired, and by this repair being unsuccessful. And he was further inconvenienced by being 
provided with a courtesy car that wasnt suited to his needs, which only happened because 
Santander denied him his rights under the CRA. So, I think Santander should compensate 
him for this. The investigator had recommended Santander pay him £200, which is in line 
with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling 
reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, Santander should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr V;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Vs credit file;
refund the £2,000 deposit Mr V paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr V made 
the payment to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr V an additional £200 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Vs complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. 
And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman