DRN-3764616
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the advice she was given by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays). She says she was advised to invest at the wrong time, to invest too much 
money and to take too much risk.
Mrs D is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I shall refer to Mrs D in my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs D had some savings in cash and had received an inheritance from her late father who 
died in 1998. In June 1999 Mrs D met with a Barclays adviser and was advised to invest 
£20,000 into the Barclays Managed Growth fund. £7,000 was invested in an ISA wrapper 
and a further £13,000 was invested in the same fund to roll over into ISAs over the coming 
financial years. Mrs D sold the investment in August 2018 and received £29,523.61.
Mrs D didnt think the advice she had been given was suitable for her and raised a 
complaint with Barclays.
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. It said;
It paid £150 into Mrs Ds bank account in recognition of the time it taken to deal 
with her complaint.
The investment was suitable for a first-time investor and the timing of the 
advice wasnt unreasonable.
Mrs D was prepared to invest for the longer term and the investment was 
affordable for her.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. He said;
He didnt think the level of risk Mrs D was exposed to was in line with her
requirements because of the equity exposure of the fund.
Mrs Ds objectives/goals could have been met with exposure to a lesser level of risk.
The amount invested was affordable for Mrs D and he didnt think Mrs D was advised
to invest too soon after the death of her father.
He thought Mrs D did want to take some risk with her money but that a more
balanced portfolio with a different asset allocation would have been more suitable.
To put the matter right he recommended that half of Mrs Ds investment be compared
to the performance of FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return Index and the
other half to the average rate from fixed rate bonds over the period of investment,
plus 8% simple interest on any loss suffered.
In response, Barclays highlighted that the fund was highly diversified and wasnt just
exposed to equity markets but different asset classes including fixed interest and tracker
funds. It accepted that Mrs Ds investment goals could have been achieved from a lower
level of risk, however it was her decision to select a medium risk approach.
The information given to the investigator didnt persuade him to change his mind.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I didnt it should be upheld but I asked both parties to 
give me anything they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I 
said;
Mrs Ds circumstances
Barclays has given us a copy of Mrs Ds personal review which provides a record of 
her circumstances as told to the Barclays representative at the time of the sale.
Mrs D was 46 years of age, married and had been with her current employer for 14 
years in her role as a teacher. He annual income was £22,000 which provided 
monthly net earnings of £1,415. Her disposable monthly income after normal monthly 
outgoings was £715.
She had personal possessions of around £200,000 and owned her home valued at 
around £95,000 which was mortgage free. Mrs D didnt have any financially reliant 
dependants. She intended to retire at 65 years and had an employee final salary 
pension scheme. Mrs D held a TESSA with Barclays, but no other investments were 
recorded. She had cash available of £41,611.
The personal review records Mrs D wanted capital growth and was willing to invest 
for five years or longer.
In making her complaint Mrs D has said she was a single parent supporting her 
dependant daughter through college education at the time. While this may have been 
the case, I dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser to have relied upon what 
Mrs D said her circumstances were at the time and as recorded in the personal 
review document.
Mrs Ds attitude to risk
Mrs Ds attitude to risk was recorded as being medium. I have considered how this 
risk level came about and how Barclays made Mrs D aware of the varying levels of 
risk implicit in different investments. And particularly bearing in mind Mrs D was a 
novice investor who was seeking advice because she didnt have the knowledge or 
experience to make such an investment decision unaided. So, Barclays needs to 
demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mrs Ds circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge after ascertaining her attitude to risk.
Clearly I cant know for sure what was discussed at the meeting Mrs D had with 
Barclays representative but from the documentary evidence that is available, Im not 
convinced that Barclays has been able to show us how it came to the conclusion that 
Mrs D was a medium risk investor.Barclays hasnt been able to give us any documentation of how it actually assessed 
Mrs Ds attitude risk. But Barclays has been able to give us copies of the fund 
brochure, key features document for the fund and Your guide to investment risk 
which does lay out the five levels of risk Barclays recognised  from risk averse to 
higher risk. And on the balance of probabilities I think it more likely than not that 
these documents and the various levels of risk were discussed as well as what fund 
would be appropriate for an investor willing to take that level of risk.
However, in the absence of documentation to evidence how the risk assessment for 
Mrs D was carried out I have taken into account her circumstances as recorded in 
the personal review to see whether the medium level of risk was right for her.
The Your guide to investment risk defines a medium attitude to risk as being; 
You are a reasonably cautious investor. You require a significant proportion 
of your savings to be in cash form. For the remainder of your investment, you 
are prepared to accept fluctuations in capital values to achieve your longer 
term investment objective.
Mrs Ds circumstances from the time of the sale suggest that her finances were 
stable. She was 46 years of age and in regular secure employment which attracted a 
final salary pension. Mrs D owned her home, mortgage free, and had a comfortable 
surplus monthly net disposable income of around £715. She had savings of £41,611, 
just under £30,000 of which I understand had come about as inheritance from her 
late father.
Taking this into account I havent seen anything to suggest that a medium attitude to 
risk was wrong for Mrs D. Because of her employment, age, and surplus income I 
think she could afford to take such a level of risk. Her circumstances suggest that she 
would have had sufficient time, savings, and income to make up any capital losses 
should they have arisen. And because of Mrs Ds age I think a medium to longer term 
investment term (five years plus) was also right for her and which would normally be 
necessary when taking a medium risk with investments.
The advice  was it suitable
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mrs Ds attitude to risk was 
assessed by the adviser  even though it was only as far as was recorded in the 
personal review and theres no evidence of how Mrs Ds attitude to risk was actually 
assessed  Ive considered whether what was recommended to her was right for her 
circumstances and financial objectives.
As Ive said above, without any investment experience Mr D would have been totally 
reliant upon the advice given to her. And Ive borne in mind what shed done 
previously with her money  by putting it in a risk-free environment of a TESSA and 
bank account.
Mrs D has said that as a novice investor a medium risk investment was too high a 
risk for her. But Ive seen nothing to conclude this was the case. As mentioned above 
its recorded that Mrs Ds investment objective was for the potential of capital growth 
so it seems likely that Mrs D did want to explore the opportunity to make her money 
grow more than it would do in her bank account.Ive also thought about Mrs Ds personal circumstances as she had recently received 
a lump sum from her late father and which Ive not seen any evidence that she had 
experience of handling such an amount before.
Of the £41,611 cash availabe, Barclays recommended that Mrs D invest £20,000 
leaving a balance of £21,611 which was to be retained as a capital reserve. While I 
accept that the word significant  in Barclays definition of the amount of cash to be 
retained by a medium risk investor is subjective  I dont agree that investing just 
under half of the funds available was excessive. Mrs D didnt have any evident 
planned expenditure and as Ive said above, Ive found her financial circumstances to 
have been stable.
With reference to the underlying investment recommended, as well as the fund 
documents I have referred to above, Barclays has provided us with a copy of an 
interim report for the Barclays Managed Growth Fund from around the time of the 
sale in 1999. Its investment objective was to provide long term capital growth from a 
portfolio mainly consisting of a range of existing Barclays unit trusts.
At the time it was invested just under 67% in the UK and just under 33% overseas 
with a strong bias to equity markets. Because of the information that was available 
to the investigator at the time, he concluded that the fund exposed Mrs D to too much 
equity investment.
Barclays hasnt been able to provide a complete breakdown of the fund asset split 
from the time of the sale but it did note that two of the identifiable investments held 
were invested only in funds exposed to fixed interest securities and accounted for at 
least 20% of the fund overall. And while I accept that Barclays hasnt been able to 
evidence this, I would think it unlikely that some of the other funds were solely 
invested in equity markets and didnt have any exposure to fixed interest securities.
Barclays was also able to provide a copy of its key features document for the fund 
from 2000 which was shortly after Mrs D invested which stated The money in the 
fund is used to invest into a wide spread of shares and fixed interest securities, many 
more than you could invest in individually. This reduces the degree of risk.
I also note the 1999 interim report, under the key market factors, refers to bonds as 
having fared less well than equities with yields rising steadily over the period. So, 
while I clearly cant know for sure, it might have been the case that at that time the 
fund had reduced exposure to fixed interest securities because they hadnt performed 
as well over the short term.
Taking all of this into account, I dont agree that Mrs D was over exposed to equity 
only investment. Its evident that a minimum of the fund was 20% invested solely in 
fixed interest securities and I think this exposure was likely further increased with 
fixed interest securities being held in the other funds held within the portfolio.
As Ive said above, Ive concluded I think its more likely Mrs D was given sufficient
information for her to be aware of the varying levels of risk and potential rewards 
implicit in different types of stock market investments. So, Im satisfied she was made 
aware of the alternatives that were available to her.
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower than medium risk options 
available to Mrs D at the time that could have potentially offered her better returns 
than savings. But my role isnt to re-visit the advice that she was given and what 
other options were potentially available to her. Rather its to consider whether the advice that was given to Mrs D was suitable for her at the time and as identified prior 
to the investment and whether it was sufficiently explained to her. And I am satisfied 
that it was.
The right time to invest
Mrs D has said that at the time of the advice she wasnt in the correct frame of mind 
to be making important decisions that would have a bearing on her future financial 
wellbeing following the death of her father. Im sorry for the loss Mrs D experienced 
and undoubtedly coming into money under such circumstances is a sad occasion.
But I note that Mrs Ds father died the previous year so at least six months before the 
advice was given in June 1999. And while no doubt Mrs D was still coming to terms 
with the death of her father, I think it unlikely that the advice given was too soon after 
his death to have prevented her from making an informed investment decision.
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this
complaint, I dont have anything to conclude that the advice given to Mrs D was 
unsuitable for her bearing in mind her personal and financial circumstances, her 
attitude to risk and her investment requirements. It follows that I dont intend to 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
No doubt Mrs D will be disappointed with my provisional findings, but I hope I have 
been able to explain how and why I have reached it.
Mrs D nor Barclays responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and I dont uphold       
Mrs Ds complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have I have given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint and make no 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman