DRN-2916475
The complaint
Ms G complains that lending made to her by MBNA Limited was irresponsible.
What happened
Ms G said she applied for a credit card with MBNA in late 2018, when she already had a
very considerable amount of debt. It offered to lend her £3,700, but she said this was never
affordable for her. She said that MBNA hadnt verified her income and expenditure, and if it
had, it wouldve realised that she earned only a little over £1,000 per month, and she had no
disposable income at all.
Ms G said MBNA had taken no steps to make sure she could clear the debt that she had
quickly run up on her card. She exceeded her credit limit on 7 November 2019, and MBNA
increased her limit on 3 December 2019. She said she made her last payment in May 2020.
Her account has since been defaulted.
Ms G wanted MBNA to write off her debt of over £4,000 in full, and to remove any adverse
information it had recorded on her credit file.
MBNA said when Ms G applied for her card, she had £8,546 of unsecured debt. She also
had £29,065 of debt for her car, but MBNA said it treats that debt differently, because its
secured on the car.
MBNA said Ms G had declared an income of £37,000, and its lending was based on that.
MBNA said it doesnt always ask for proof of income when its reviewing an application, and
unless there were any concerns from discrepancies in her application and credit file
information, it would accept that she earned what shed told it. It didnt think that was a
mistake.
MBNA said it had increased Ms Gs credit limit in December 2019. Her account exceeded
the credit limit and remained above the limit between November 2019 and June 2020. Ms
Gs direct debit was returned unpaid in April 2020. MBNA had given Ms G a payment holiday
after this, but interest continued to be applied during this time. When no further payments
were received after this, the account was defaulted.
MBNA said it wouldnt write off Ms Gs debt, and it wouldnt remove the default on her credit
file. It said it wanted to come to an agreement with her on resolving the debt.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought MBNA had made
proportionate checks when it first lent to Ms G, and in particular he didnt think it was
unreasonable for MBNA not to have taken further steps to verify Ms Gs income, because
there wasnt anything to alert MBNA to a problem when it first lent to Ms G. He didnt think
the initial lending was irresponsible. And he said that the credit limit increase in December
2019 stopped Ms G being charged over limit fees.
Our investigator said that credit card companies are supposed to write to their customers, if
theyve only been making the minimum payment for a while. Those letters start at eighteen
months. But Ms G stopped paying before that point, so wouldnt have triggered any of these
letters. And MBNA did write to Ms G to try to set up an agreement for her to pay what she
could afford.
Our investigator didnt think MBNA had to do any more. He mentioned sources of help if Ms
G was still struggling with her finances.
Ms G said she still thought that MBNAs lending was unaffordable, and she said this was
demonstrated by what happened after the account was opened. She asked what level of
debt would she have had to have for further lending to be unreasonable. She said that
£37,611 was a huge level of debt for a single individual. She thought it was extraordinary
that she was able to put any number down as earnings on a credit card application and this
would never be cross-checked. She said that essentially allows anyone to manufacture their
income out of thin air, putting vulnerable customers at risk. She said our investigator hadnt
mentioned that.
Ms G said that our investigator mentioned help offered by MBNA, but the damage had
already been done by the time that was offered. Ms G said shed been clear that her income
for November 2018 wasnt enough to allow any further lending. Ms G wanted her complaint
to be considered by an ombudsman, so her complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Ms Gs argument is that we needed to look at the fact that shed inflated her income, 
and there was no check on that. Essentially, Ms G says that MBNA shouldve 
checked if she was telling the truth about how much she earned. And if MBNA had 
looked into things further, it wouldve realised what her situation really was, and it 
wouldnt have lent to her.
I think our investigator did look at this. And Ive reached broadly the same conclusion 
on this as he did  that there wasnt anything in the information that Ms G had 
supplied to make MBNA think that further checks were needed.
It isnt always all right for a lender to just rely on what a customer says about their 
income. But I dont think its unreasonable for MBNA to have relied on what Ms G 
said about her employment and income in this case. Thats because I havent seen 
any information which wouldve been available to MBNA at that time, which makes 
me think MBNA ought to have refused to believe her, and required her to provide 
proof of her income.
Ms G told us that she had a very considerable amount of debt when she applied for 
this card, and detailed credit agreements totalling just under £45,000. But she 
appears to have listed her credit limits, rather than her outstanding debts. MBNA said 
that her unsecured credit was £8,546. And although she also owed a considerable 
amount on car finance, that debt was secured on the car. I dont think that this 
amount of lending, with a total declared income of £37,000, ought to have made 
MBNA think that no further lending would be affordable for her.
Ms G says this lending wasnt affordable for her, and that what happened on the 
account afterwards proves this. But I think I need to be clear on what Im looking at. 
Im not looking at whether this lending was actually affordable for Ms G in the end. 
Im looking at the decision that MBNA made in late 2018, and in particular, whether it shouldve realised then that this was going to be unaffordable for Ms G. And I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of this case, to expect 
MBNA to have realised then that this lending wasnt going to be affordable for Ms G.
Our investigator set out the expectations on MBNA, in terms of writing to customers 
about their monthly payments. And he said that MBNA had tried to point Ms G 
towards help when she appeared to be getting into trouble with her finances. I think 
MBNA did what I would expect it to when Ms G was no longer able to meet her 
monthly payments.
But there is one thing I thought that MBNA did wrong. In November 2019, Ms G went 
over her credit card limit. And in December 2019, MBNA increased Ms Gs credit limit 
by £100. Ms G hasnt suggested that she requested this increase, so it seems likely 
that MBNA offered this increase. And, although this was a relatively modest increase, 
the UK Cards Association says that credit card companies shouldnt offer any 
increase where the balance currently exceeds the credit limit. So I dont think this 
increase shouldve been offered.
Because I dont think Ms G shouldve been offered this additional lending, I think that 
MBNA should refund onto Ms Gs debt any interest she was charged for lending 
between her old credit limit of £3,700 and her new credit limit of £3,800.
Where Ms G has been charged additional interest, for lending over her new credit 
limit, I dont think MBNA has to refund that too. Thats because I dont think that 
interest charge is related to the mistake MBNA made.
I know Ms G will be disappointed, but I dont think that MBNA has to do more than 
that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Ms G didnt reply. MBNA sent a substantive reply.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA had previously told us it had no notes to tell it about the credit limit increase it made in 
December 2019. It now says that its checked, and it does have some information on this, 
held elsewhere in its organisation. It now says that Ms G did ask for this credit limit increase, 
MBNA didnt proactively offer it. And MBNA says that when it agreed to this, on 3 December, 
Ms G was under her credit limit by £25.
I have looked carefully at Ms Gs statements. I can see that when Ms G got her card, she 
used almost all of her available credit straight away, to make an interest free balance 
transfer. She made one transaction on her card, not long after she first got it, which used up 
most of the remaining credit. She then continued to pay the minimum each month for some 
time, without using the card. 
In late October 2019, the position changed, and Ms G started to use her card for purchases. 
She quickly used up all of the available credit on the card at the start of that monthly 
statement period, and by 6 November, her card was over its limit. 
I cant see exactly when, during December, Ms Gs credit limit was increased. MBNA has 
said this was done on 3 December, which was the day after Ms G had made her monthly minimum payment. That payment did briefly bring Ms Gs card back within its limit. But Ms G 
had already made some transactions on 2 December, which had pushed her back up 
towards her old credit limit when the increase was agreed. Depending on the timing of this 
request on 3 December, she may already have been over her old limit again. But even if she 
wasnt, this increase was requested at a time when Ms Gs usage of the card had clearly 
changed, and just after she had run her card up over its limit. She went on to do exactly the 
same thing that month.
I have balanced against this that the increase was a relatively modest one, and that MBNA 
would not necessarily have been aware in December that Ms G would remain over her new 
limit for some time. But I also need to consider that Ms G had never paid more than the 
minimum, and that her card usage had changed markedly and recently including exceeding 
its limit. So, on balance, I still think that there were sufficient early warning signs of potential 
financial difficulties when Ms G made this request, that this increase should not have been 
made. And that means I still think that MBNA should make a relatively modest refund onto 
Ms Gs debt, to cover any interest she was charged for lending between her old credit limit of 
£3,700 and her new credit limit of £3,800.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA limited must refund onto Ms Gs debt any interest she was 
charged for lending from December 2019 onwards, on lending between her old credit limit of 
£3,700 and her new credit limit of £3,800.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman