DRN-3122891
The complaint
Mr B, represented by a third party, complains that Morses Club PLC trading as Morses Club 
was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr B was provided with six loans between January 2014 and September 2017. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount
1 07/01/2014 14/11/2014 £200.00
2 03/09/2015 10/03/2016 £200.00
3 10/03/2016 23/08/2016 £300.00
4 23/08/2016 03/03/2017 £400.00
5 03/03/2017 25/09/2017 £400.00
6 25/09/2017 21/03/2018 £400.00
Morses Club says that affordability checks were undertaken before each loan was provided. 
It says that based on these checks the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator noted that there was a break in the lending of around ten months between 
loans 1 and 2 so they considered loan 2 as the start of a new lending chain. They didnt think 
they had enough to say that loans 1 to 4 shouldnt have been provided but said that by loan 
5 Morses Club should have questioned whether continuing to offer further loans to a 
customer who appeared to be reliant on this form of lending was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. They thought the pattern of lending from loan 5 showed that the loans from this 
point were unsustainable.
Morses Club didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said Mr B repaid all of his loans and 
didnt raise any concerns at the time about financial difficulties. It says the loans were 
relatively small and the repayments accounted for a small portion of Mr Bs uncommitted 
income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses Club should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B was provided with the first loan in January 2014 and repaid this in November 2014. He 
didnt then take another loan with Morses Club until September 2015, around ten months 
later. I think this gap in the lending at this stage in the relationship was significant and so I 
agree with our adjudicator that the loans should be treated as two separate lending chains: 
the first including loan 1; the second including loans 2 to 6.
Before the loans were provided, Morses Club has said that it carried out affordability checks. 
I have looked at the information provided and note that Morses Club has said that evidence 
of certain income and expenses was provided. While I havent seen any verification of the 
income and expenditure figures, I also do not have evidence to suggest the amounts 
provided were incorrect. Therefore, in the case of the earlier loans (loan 1 in the first lending 
chain and loans 2 to 4 in the second lending chain) I think the checks were proportionate 
and as these suggested the repayments were affordable, I do not find I can say Morses Club 
was wrong to provide these loans.
By loan 5, Mr B had been borrowing from Morses Club without any breaks for around 18 
months. He had taken out four loans in this lending chain with each loan being taken out on 
the day the previous loan was repaid. The amounts being borrowed had increased from 
£200 to £400. I think Mr Bs pattern of lending at this time should have raised concerns that 
he had become reliant on this type of borrowing and that the lending wasnt sustainably 
affordable for him. Because of this I uphold this complaint regarding loans 5 and 6.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B after loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 5 and 6, Morses Club should:
Refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 and 6 along with 8% simple 
interest* on the payments made from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about the loans is adverse, so Morses Club should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Bs credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint regarding loans 5 and 6. Morses Club PLC 
should take the actions set out above in settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman