DRN-3122606
The complaint
Mr J complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when he contacted it 
about two transactions pending from his bank account.
What happened
Mr J called Santander on 28 October 2020 having made an online purchase from a retail 
vendor. He explained that during his first attempt at the transaction the system had crashed, 
so hed processed the order again. But he later noticed that two payments were pending to 
the vendor from his Santander account. 
Mr J says that the advisor he spoke to assured him that the vendor wouldnt take both 
payments. However they did, and so he has had to spend time chasing Santander and the 
vendor to try and get a refund. Mr J also feels the advisor was very condescending toward 
him and has similarly explained that he didnt think the telephone manner of a complaints 
manager he spoke to was acceptable either. 
Santander looked into Mr Js complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had listened to both of 
the calls Mr J had made to it about these transactions, and felt hed been correctly advised 
that if both of the payments debited from his account Santander could dispute this on his 
behalf. It said it didnt think the advisor was condescending or unhelpful and so it wouldnt be 
taking any further action.
Mr J wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. To put 
things right hed like Santander to acknowledge his concerns and understand that a vendor 
may take multiple payments for an order in scenarios like this. Hed also like it to pay him 
compensation for the time he has spent resolving the issue and to reflect the emotional 
stress hes explained he has experienced as a result of its poor service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. The investigator felt that Santander 
had provided Mr J with correct information about the payment dispute process. And noted 
that hed received a refund within the process typical timeframes. 
Mr J is unhappy that the investigator decided not to ask Santander to issue him with an 
apology in response to his complaint. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr J feels very strongly about this matter and is of the opinion that the service 
he received from Santander here was poor. But having looked into what happened and 
listened to the calls Mr J and Santander have referenced, I dont feel that Santander treated 
Mr J unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr J is frustrated that he had to spend time chasing Santander and the vendor 
for a refund after both payments were debited from his account. And I dont doubt the 
inconvenience this caused him. But I dont think I can fairly say that this happened due to 
any error on Santanders part. 
Mr J has explained that he processed both transactions himself. The two transactions were 
made at different times and for differing amounts as Mr J had paid postage for the first order, 
but not the second. This meant the payments didnt meet the definition of duplicate 
payments whereby Santander mightve been able to try and get one of them reversed. 
When Mr J contacted Santander both payments were showing as pending on his account. 
And in this scenario, once the payments were pending, there wasnt any action Santander 
couldve taken to cancel either of them. Mr J had authorised the transactions when he 
processed the payments, and the money was effectively reserved for the vendor until the 
vendor completed or reversed the transactions.
The crux of Mr Js complaint stems from the telephone conversation he had with Santander 
on 28 October 2020. He feels he was incorrectly told by Santanders advisor that the vendor 
wouldnt take both payments, and that the advisor didnt listen to his concerns when he 
explained that something similar had happened to him in the past and on that occasion both 
payments had been taken.
Its clear the advisor thought it was very unlikely the vendor would take both payments. I can 
hear she told Mr J that as he hadnt received an email confirmation from the vendor for the 
first payment it would likely be reversed by the vendor and the funds released back into his 
bank account. She said shed seen this type of thing happen a lot. And that 99.9 times out 
of a 100 when it comes to the end of withholding it will just go back into your available 
balance.  But I can also hear that she correctly advised Mr J that on the very small chance 
both payments were taken then Santander would be able to raise a dispute his behalf. But 
that it was too early for Santander to be able to take any action at this stage whilst the 
payments were pending.
I can fully understand why Mr J was so disappointed when both payments were taken by the 
vendor given hed been told it was unlikely this would happen. But I dont think the advisor 
he spoke to was trying to dismiss his concerns or gave any certain guarantees that this 
definitely wouldnt happen. She offered later in the conversation to provide Mr J with the 
authorisation code for the transaction so that he could double check with the vendor directly, 
but he declined this offer and said he would wait and see if the payment was reversed. And 
Im satisfied there is nothing more Santander could have done at this stage to try and 
prevent both of the payments from being taken.
Mr J has told us he felt the advisor was condescending toward him. And I can appreciate 
why hes upset about the call if it made him feel this way. But again this isnt the impression I 
get when listening to the call. Whilst the advisor spoke briskly and directly, I feel that overall 
her tone was fair and reasonable. I also note that it was on a later call to Santander on 3 
November 2020 that Mr J said he was unhappy with the call of 28 October 2020. He didnt 
express any obvious dissatisfaction with the tone or manner of the advisor during the call of 
28 October 2020 itself. He told the advisor he understood it was too soon for Santander to 
be able to take any action in respect of the payments and agreed to wait until Saturday to 
see what happened.
Looking at what happened after the payments were debited, Im satisfied that Santander 
followed the correct process to dispute the payment for Mr J and look to recover his funds 
from the vendor. As part of this process Santander required Mr J to provide it with some 
information, including confirmation that hed contacted the vendor directly to enquire about a refund. As Ive said, I dont doubt the inconvenience this caused Mr J. But this is a standard 
part of the payment dispute process. And Im pleased to see that the vendor refunded the 
payment on 26 November 2020 and Mr J has not been left out of pocket.
Given the findings Ive set out above, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Santander to 
take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman