DRN-1252019
 
The complaint
Miss H has complained on behalf of Ms O about the level of compensation offered by UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Churchill, following delays to the repair of Ms Os house 
and other problems.
What happened
Ms Os house suffered serious water damage following a burst pipe in February 2018 and 
made a claim under her home insurance policy with UKI. UKI accepted Ms Os claim. As 
there was a lot of damage they arranged alternative accommodation for her whilst work was 
carried out. 
The repairs took many months. Some of Ms Os possessions were left in the house and 
were damaged or destroyed during the work because they werent removed or stored safely. 
They included items of sentimental value. UKI accepted responsibility, but Ms O found 
dealing with its loss adjusters over this particularly upsetting.
The repair work was meant to be completed by 29 October 2018, but it wasnt finished until 
February 2019. 
Ms O and Miss H contacted UKI about the lack of progress. They wanted work to be finished 
so that Ms O could be back in her home before Christmas. Miss H told UKI that Ms O 
suffered from anxiety which the delays, uncertainty and lack of updates were making worse. 
A contractor reported to UKI that Ms O suffered a panic attack on a visit to her home in 
November 2018.
Ms Os home was not ready until 10 February 2019. Miss H says they were only given a 
weeks notice for Ms O to move out of the alternative accommodation back into her home. 
This caused her further stress and anxiety.  
Ms O says that the problems and delays caused her further distress in addition to living in 
alternative accommodation for many months. 
UKI agrees there were problems and delays in the work being completed. They upheld the 
complaint made about this and offered Ms O £750 in compensation. Miss H does not think 
this is enough given all the problems and upset caused. She has referred the matter to our 
service. 
Our investigator agreed with Miss H and recommended a higher payment of £1,250 be 
made to Ms O, which she accepts. UKI does not agree, arguing that the offer of £750 is fair. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am upholding the 
complaint.
UKI wasnt to blame for original water damage and living in alternative accommodation for 
months would be stressful for most people. But, the additional problems, delays and poor 
service were UKIs responsibility. They made Ms Os experience worse than it should have 
been. And the problems continued over a long period. 
UKI has apologised. In their letter to Miss H, UKI accepts:
This delay of over three months is not acceptable
And that there was:
 severe mistreatment of Ms O contents
And 
numerous instances  where promises were broken, call-backs were not made, 
contractors didnt turn up and deadlines not hit  and I apologise that youve been let 
down to such an extent
UKI have offered £750 in compensation. In their response to our investigators findings UKI 
say their offer is fair and is in line with the FOS redress matrix. 
Our service doesnt apply a rigid formula for the calculation of redress, considering each 
case on its merits.  In deciding what is fair and reasonable compensation we consider what 
impact the issue or problem had on the individual customer, as the same issue can impact 
people very differently.
I consider Ms O suffered substantial trouble and upset due to the multiple problems and 
delays caused by UKI and their agents. And short-notice changes of accommodation. These 
continued for a significant period of time. 
These problems would have been distressing for anyone but especially for someone already 
known to be suffering from stress and anxiety. Ms O and Miss H have also had to spend 
their time sorting out problems that were not caused by the original water damage.
I dont agree that £750 is adequate and I consider an award of £1,250 to be fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against UK Insurance Limited. 
I direct UK Insurance Limited to pay a total compensation to Ms O of £1,250 less any 
amount of compensation already paid to her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman