DRN-3150769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc has failed to take direct debit 
payments for their mortgage.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2017. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H had some financial difficulties. And in October 2019 NatWest agreed 
to a three month payment holiday. A further three month payment holiday was also agreed 
from April 2020 to June 2020 due to COVID 19. 
In May 2020, while on the payment holiday, Mr and Mrs H agreed a new fixed rate for their 
mortgage. The new fixed rate was due to come into effect from the end of the payment 
holiday. But Mr H says that although he was told the payments would be taken by direct 
debit this wasnt done. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to NatWest but NatWest didnt uphold their complaint. It said, in 
summary, that it could not reinstate the direct debit until they had contacted the debt 
management team to address the arrears on their account and discuss if future payments 
were affordable and if any other support was required. And it explained that as they hadnt 
had an active direct debit prior to the payment holiday it would not have been able to 
reinstate this in any event. 
Our investigator didnt think that NatWest needed to take any action. But Mr and Mrs H dont 
agree and have asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that NatWest didnt take direct debit payments when their 
payment holiday ended in June 2020. And I appreciate that there may have been some 
confusion around this when they took out the new fixed rate in May 2020. In particular, I see 
that NatWest wrote to them in May 2020 to say that their new payments took effect from 31 
May 2020, when in fact they would not come into effect until after the end of the payment 
holiday. And this letter also says that NatWest would update the direct debit agreement. But 
NatWest says, and I accept, that the reason it couldnt take payments was because Mr and 
Mrs H had previous arrears on their account. And it says it contacted them to explain that 
they needed to get in touch with the debt management team to address the arrears and 
discuss if future payments were affordable. 
NatWest also explained that Mr and Mrs H hadnt had an active direct debit prior to the 
payment holiday and hadnt paid by direct debit since 2019. Therefore it would not in any 
event have been able to reinstate the direct debit without their authority to set up a new 
direct debit. 
I can see from the internal notes available to me that NatWest made efforts to contact 
Mr and Mrs H to discuss the matter. The notes show that NatWest wrote to them in July 
2020, and that it tried to contact them by phone in August 2020 before again writing to them. 
But it wasnt until September 2020 that NatWest was able to make contact with them. In that 
call, Mr H was advised to complete an income and expenditure form so that payments could 
be agreed going forward.
Mr H says that he had thought that the mortgage adviser who dealt with their new fixed rate 
had set up the direct debit. But the only relevant evidence I have seen is an email from early 
August 2020 in which the adviser informs Mr H that the payment hasnt been taken as there 
is no active direct debit, and that he should contact customer services. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that NatWest has acted unreasonably. Given the previous arrears 
and payment holiday I can understand why NatWest wanted Mr and Mrs H to complete an 
income and expenditure form before agreeing a payment arrangement. Im satisfied that it 
tried to contact Mr and Mrs H to discuss this. I am also persuaded that Mr and Mrs H were 
aware that the payments werent being taken, as evidenced by the email from the mortgage 
adviser. And, although I appreciate that Mr H has said that he tried to set up the direct debit 
on numerous occasions, I havent seen any evidence to support this. In any event, whether 
or not a direct debit was set up Mr and Mrs H still had an obligation to make the minimum 
contractual monthly payment, and they could have done this manually. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that they are being charged interest on their 
arrears. But I am satisfied that NatWest is entitled to do this under the conditions of the 
mortgage, so I am not persuaded that it has acted incorrectly. Equally, while I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs H say that the situation has had an effect on their credit record, I am not 
persuaded that NatWest has made an error by accurately reporting the position to the credit 
agencies, as it is under an obligation to do so.
If Mr and Mrs H have not already sent NatWest a completed income and expenditure form I 
recommend that they do so now so that they can agree a payment arrangement. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman