DRN-4324346
The complaint
Mr E complains about how One Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his car insurance 
policy following a non-fault accident. 
What happened
Mr E was involved in an accident in his car which wasnt his fault. He therefore called the 
broker for his car insurance policy who initially referred him to an accident management 
company (AMC) for a credit hire and repair service. A week later Mr E was referred back to 
his insurer, One Insurance, who dealt with the claim under his car insurance policy. 
When Mr E was referred to credit hire and repair hed raised concerns about who would 
repair his car as it had a manufacturers warranty. He also raised concerns about the credit 
hire agreement provided by the AMC. Mr E wasnt happy with how One Insurance was 
dealing with his claim and complained. He said his car had been repaired without using a 
manufacturing garage or a garage of his choice and was generally unhappy with the 
information provided by One Insurance. 
One Insurance reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said Mr E had confirmed he 
was happy with One Insurance carrying out the repairs and that it had also spoken with a 
manufacturing garage and been assured that as genuine manufacturer parts and repair 
methods had been used then Mr Es warranty with the manufacturer wouldnt be affected. Mr 
E wasnt happy with the response and referred the complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found Mr E had been given incorrect 
information about his claim when speaking with One Insurance. She therefore recommended 
One Insurance pay Mr E £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the poor claim handling. Mr E accepted our investigators outcome. One Insurance asked for 
an ombudsmans decision but didnt provide any comments in response to our investigators 
view. 
As One Insurance didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es policy explain what One Insurance will do in the event of 
loss or damage caused to his car. These include either paying the cost of repairs, replacing 
what is lost or damaged, or paying a settlement which is based on the cost of replacing Mr 
Es car at the time of loss. The terms also say Mr E can us his own repairer, but One 
Insurance will not pay more than it would cost to repair Mr Es car through its own repair 
network. Ive therefore looked to see whether One Insurance applied the terms in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
During the claim Mr E asked One Insurance about the repairs, in particular he asked who 
would do them and the impact on his manufacturers warranty, as he was concerned about 
the manufacturers warranty on the car. During a call with One Insurance, it was agreed to 
assess the damage to Mr Es car and let him know if it could be repaired, along with the cost 
before any work was started. This was so Mr E could make a choice on where and how his 
car was repaired. 
Mr E also spoke with the manufacturer about his warranty and was told it would be 
invalidated if not repaired in a way the manufacturer agreed with. Following this, he asked 
One Insurance on a web chat about the manufacturers warranty and was told the repair 
wouldnt affect it. This was also later confirmed in writing. However, Mr E then also found out 
his car had been repaired without it being discussed with him first. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr E had with One Insurance and reviewed the web chat transcript. 
From doing so its clear Mr E had concerns about how his car would be repaired. I can also 
see the advisors he spoke with were trying to help him. However, Im not persuaded his 
claim was handled as well as it should have. I say this because Mr E had to ask repeatedly 
about the process and made it clear this hadnt been properly explained to him. So, while I 
do think One Insurance was trying to help in the web chat and calls Ive seen and listened to, 
Im not satisfied the claim process and the next steps was clearly explained to Mr E as early 
as it could have been. He was also told the damage would be assessed and discussed with 
him before the car was repaired, but this didnt happen. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied One Insurance has caused unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience for Mr E during the claim. Our investigator recommended £250 
compensation which Mr E accepted. One Insurance asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint but didnt provide any comments on why it disagreed. Without anything to say why 
One Insurance disagrees with our investigators outcome, I see no reason to depart from it. 
Therefore, One Insurance needs to pay Mr E £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
One Insurance Limited to pay Mr E £250 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman