DRN-3049314
The complaint
Miss L complains that in the course of her home insurance claim for water damage, her 
kitchen worktop was damaged by contractors employed by Allianz Insurance Plc. 
What happened
In October 2019 Miss L contacted Allianz to make a clam after she discovered a leak from 
the flat above. Allianz accepted the claim and sent out contractors to strip and start to dry out 
the property. On 6 March 2020 the contractors returned to check for further damage. In the 
course of this the kitchen cupboard doors were removed and then refitted. After the 
contractors left Miss L noticed that her worktop had been damaged  it had a dent in it. She 
advised Allianz of this. Subsequently she found that the cupboard doors were not properly 
aligned. She paid her kitchen fitter £80 to correct this. Allianz arranged for this to be 
reimbursed.
Allianz checked with its contractors who denied being responsible for the damage to the 
worktop. They said it wasnt raised with them until sometime later and that Miss L had sent 
them a photo of a screwdriver which had allegedly caused the damage. They pointed out 
that the screwdriver didnt belong to them. 
On referral to this service our investigator was persuaded by Miss Ls account, noting in 
particular that she had raised this with Allianz the same day she said it happened.
Allianz disagreed, its loss adjuster stating that the complaint was raised in early March, but 
its contractors werent on site until 18 March.  
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nobody knows for certain who was responsible for the damage to the worktop, or what 
caused the damage. However Miss L has shown us evidence that she noticed the damage 
very soon after the contractors had left and reported it to Allianz by email that same day. 
This was 6 March 2020 
Allianzs account of what happened has been inconsistent, firstly it said Miss L had put back 
the cupboard doors herself, then later admitted its own contractors had done this. Secondly 
it now denies that its contractors were there on 6 March, only attending later that month. Yet 
we know from the papers and from the contractors own account that they attended on 
6 March and both removed and reinstalled the cupboard doors on that day. They also said 
they didnt notice any damage to the worktop. I think it likely that the damage happened that 
day.
This brings us to whether Miss Ls contractors were responsible or whether it was Allianzs 
contractors. Allianz has referred to a photo of a screwdriver Miss L provided which allegedly 
caused the dent, which the contractors have said didnt belong to them. I havent seen any 
such photo, though there are several references on the file to a screwdriver which had been 
dropped down the toilet. It seems feasible that the dent could have been caused by a 
screwdriver, but Ive not seen any clear evidence that this was the case. I am aware that 
there was a bad relationship between Miss L and the contractors.
Taking into account Miss Ls clear and consistent version of events, and that Allianzs 
contractors were working in the kitchen on that day, I think on balance that its more likely 
that the damage was caused by Allianzs contractors. The damage is minor and its said it 
wont cost a great deal to repair, so Im surprised that Allianz would make such a big issue of 
it.
I think Allianz should arrange to repair the worktop. I wont make an award of compensation 
as its a minor issue where repairing it will resolve it.
Putting things right
Allianz has reimbursed Miss L for the cost of realigning the cupboard doors, so I wont make 
any further order in respect of that.
Allianz should arrange to repair Miss Ls kitchen worktop, in respect of the damage reported 
on 6 March 2020.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman