DRN-3559340
The complaint
Mr M complained that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M took out a loan with FOL as follows: 
start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
September 
2021May 2022 4 £500 £235
Mr M complained that FOL shouldnt have lent to him because at the time, he had multiple 
financial products already maxed out and his credit score was very poor. He said his cash 
flow was nil and his credit report and bank statements would have shown clear information 
that lending to him wasnt responsible. He would also like a default, which he feels was 
unfairly added, removed from his credit file. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In brief summary, he thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr M for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided, or the information FOL 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that FOL shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr M had declared
Mr M declared monthly income of £2,100 and expenditure of £1,120 leaving £980 
disposable income monthly
the number of loans Mr M took, the loan amount and loan term meant his loan 
history, on its own, wasnt enough to have shown FOL that he mightve been 
experiencing underlying financial difficulty. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view. In brief summary, he felt that as his credit record 
was littered with red flags and FOL shouldve seen this, it shouldnt have given him the loan. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled informally it comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Im sorry Mr M isnt happy with the way the adjudicator explained his view. Id like to 
reassure Mr M that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
FOL provided Mr M with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. 
Theres no set list of checks that are proportionate. In general, what constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. And, for a first loan, less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
This means there isnt necessarily any requirement for a lender to do its own checks into a 
borrowers credit history or request to see bank statements. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
As this was the first loan Mr M had taken out with FOL, Mr M didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted FOL to any underlying money problems. It wasnt an 
unusually large loan, given the take home pay he had declared. And Mr M was planning to 
pay the loan back over the next four months  which I think was a foreseeable period of time 
when the lender could fairly assume what Mr M had said about his present financial situation 
was reasonably likely to apply over the loan term. 
Before lending to Mr M, FOL asked him for information about his financial situation. FOL 
independently checked the amount of Mr Ms pay and had no reason to think that the figure 
Mr M had declared wasnt a broadly reasonable indicator of his likely monthly income. 
FOL asked Mr M about his outgoings, including what he was spending on other loans. Using 
this information, FOL was able to see what his monthly budget typically looked like.  The information FOL gathered enabled it to work out how much money Mr M should have 
available to spend after paying all his normal monthly outgoings and it was satisfied that the 
loan repayments for this loan shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr M.
I agree that looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the 
information FOL had on record for Mr M, including what Mr M told FOL, this didnt point to 
the loan being unaffordable for Mr M. After taking into account all the information FOL had 
gathered, it looked like Mr M shouldve still had more than £700 surplus cash left each month 
after paying for this loan. 
FOL mightve wondered why someone with that much disposable income wanted to apply 
for this high cost loan. But I think its fair to say there are lots of reasons why someone in 
Mr Ms position might want a relatively small loan quickly  possibly in an emergency 
situation or to cover a one-off unexpected cost for instance.
Im very sorry that Mr M had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this 
loan turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Ms actual circumstances 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information FOL 
obtained. 
But I would expect FOL to decide Mr Ms lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. And although Mr M feels strongly that FOL 
shouldve done more or better checks, I dont think proportionate checks in these 
circumstances wouldve required FOL to probe any more deeply into Mr Ms finances or ask 
Mr M to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he 
had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. This means that if his 
credit report and bank statements showed other information that Mr M didnt tell FOL about, 
then FOL couldnt have known about it and I cant fairly say that FOL shouldve known about 
it. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account everything Mr M has said, 
including his response to the adjudicators view. But in this case, for all the reasons I have 
explained, I dont think that FOL acted unreasonably when it decided to lend this loan to 
Mr M.
Ive thought carefully about whether FOL has acted in any other way that isnt fair and 
reasonable. As far as I can see, FOL sent fair warning that it would apply the default after 
Mr M failed to make all the repayments he had signed up to and I cant fairly say that FOL 
acted unfairly when it did this. So I havent seen enough to make me think this is a case 
where it would be fair and reasonable for me to require FOL to remove the default or award 
any other redress. 
I am sorry that Mr M has been struggling financially. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment to him. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will 
help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman