DRN-3278786
Complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained about the overdraft charges TSB Bank Plc (TSB) 
applied to their current account. Theyve said that they were led to believe having a Silver 
packaged account meant theyd have an interest free overdraft of £2,500.00.
Background
Mrs M and Mr M have also complained that their Silver packaged bank account was mis-
sold to them. But weve already explained that the complaint about the sale of Silver 
packaged bank account and whether Mrs M and Mr M were misled into agreeing to it in the 
first place, will be looked at separately. So the sale of the account doesnt form part of my 
decision.  
Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint about their overdraft charges was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. She didnt think that TSB had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs M and Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
In the first instance I think it would be useful for me to set out that an interest and fee free 
overdraft of £2,500.00 isnt and never has been a benefit of the Silver packaged account. So 
Im not upholding this complaint on the basis that Mrs M and Mr M were charged in 
circumstances were the terms and conditions of their account meant they shouldnt have 
been. I know Mrs M and Mr M say that they were misled about the benefits on the Silver 
account and thats why they agreed to it in the first place. But Ive already explained that this 
matter is being looked at separately. 
Nonetheless, as Mrs M and Mr M have complained about the interest, fees and charges TSB 
added to their overdraft, Ive, in any event, looked at whether TSB, for any other reason, 
added the interest, fees and charges it did to Mrs M and Mr Ms account unfairly. Before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mrs M and Mr M if it applied these interest, fees and charges to 
Mrs M and Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs M and Mr M were experiencing financial difficulty. So 
Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Mrs M and Mr M fairly 
and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where TSB continued charging 
Mrs M and Mr M even though it ought to have known they were in financial difficulty or it 
ought to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through the account statements 
provided throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that TSB ought to have been 
aware that Mrs M and Mr M might have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Mrs M and Mr M did regularly use their overdraft and they may say that this in itself ought 
reasonably to have led TSB to realise that it was unfair to charge them. But its clear that 
significant funds were being paid into the account. And the receipt of these funds suggested 
that Mrs M and Mr M were in a position to repay the balance within a reasonable period of 
time. Equally, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs M and 
Mr Ms expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs M and Mr M 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted TSB to potential financial difficulty, or prompted it to 
take corrective action in relation to the overdraft facility. In my view, taking such action would 
have been disproportionate bearing in mind there was no suggestion Mrs M and Mr M 
werent in a position to repay their overdraft within a reasonable period of time.
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs M and Mr M, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to have proceeded adding the charges that it did 
add. As this is the case, I dont think TSB charged Mrs M and Mr M in circumstances where 
it ought to have realised that it was unfair to do so and Im not upholding Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint about the overdraft charges added to their Silver account. I appreciate that this will 
be very disappointing for Mrs M and Mr M. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for my 
decision and that theyll at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman