DRN-4279214
The complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a timeshare in 
December 2009. He also says that the credit agreements he entered into with BPF were 
unenforceable. The purchase was made by Mr T and Mrs R, but the credit agreement was in 
Mr Ts name alone. However, as they relate to purchases made by him and Mrs R, Ill refer 
to them jointly at times throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs R bought membership of a timeshare (the Club) from a third party I will call C 
21 December 2009. This cost £10,194 and was funded by a loan from BPF which I gather 
was repaid in October 2018.
In March 2021, using a professional representative (PR) Mr T made claims under s.75 and 
140A of the CCA for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship.
The reasons for the claims under s. 75 and s.140 were as follows:
A. The Timeshare sold by The Resort is Null and Void as it is not a timeshare as defined by 
the EU Directive. Due to The Resorts agreement being Null and Void, The Banks loan 
agreement creates an unfair relationship, under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
between the Bank and our Client.
The Banks loan agreement is therefore Null and Void.
B. The Bank loan agreement which includes the extortionate interest rate, creates an Unfair 
Term under the Unfair Contract Terms Regulations. In addition, the undisclosed secret 
commissions also is an unfair term. All of these terms makes the loan agreement 
unenforceable.
C. The misrepresentations made by The Resort at the time of sale of The Timeshare has 
caused financial detriment to our Client. Our Client therefore has a claim against the Bank 
for the breaches by the Resort due to the misrepresentations under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act.
As a result, the Banks loan agreement is Null and Void.
D. The Bank did not carry out an affordability assessment on the Clients ability to pay the 
Banks loan instalment in accordance with FCA regulations Conc 5.2.2 R (1) and Conc 
5.3.1G(4). As a result, the Banks loan agreement is Null and Void. The client went into an 
IVA programme in 2013.
I understand that BPF didnt issue a substantive response and a complaint was brought to 
this service in February 2022. This repeated much of what and been put in the claim to BPF 
and added:
1. Clients were not given sufficient information as to the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement required by law;
2. There were no major credit checks made as to the affordability of the repayments such as 
income versus outgoings reports;
3. The length of the loan agreements were not explained, with client under the impression 
that they were for two years;
4. Clients were pressured into signing these agreements;
5. False representations were made to clients relating to the financial impact of regulated 
agreements;
6. Clients were subject to long high pressure sales tactics to purchase the timeshares;
7. Clients were sold timeshares which were not appropriate for them;
8. Vulnerable consumers were treated inappropriately;
9. Concerns about commission arrangements and disclosure thereof.
The complaint was passed to an investigator who, having considered the information 
available, concluded that Mr Ts claim under s. 75 was out of time under the LA.
On the matter of s.140A he didnt consider there was evidence of misrepresentation. He also 
addressed the claim on an unfair relationship and said that he didnt think:
The contractual terms were so problematic as to be unfair in themselves.
There were any aspects of the relationship between Mr T and the business that were 
so unclear that he agreed to the purchase without knowing something that was 
important to that decision.
The business conduct fell so short of the standard that could have been reasonably 
expected that it made the relationship unfair.
PR disagreed with the investigators assessment. Much of what it had to say repeated what 
the Letters of Claim and Complaint said. So, I wont repeat any of that. But, in summary, it 
did say the following in relation to the limitation period that the investigator thought was 
relevant to her outcome:
Section 14A of the LA gives Mr T more time to make his claims because BPF ought to have 
known about European Directive 94/47/EC before providing Mr T with the finance to make 
the purchases in question. In PRs view, therefore, BPF owed Mr T a duty of care and 
shouldnt have provided him with finance to purchase the timeshare that was in breach of the 
relevant regulations. It set out its interpretations of s. 14 as follows:
S.14 LA Interpretation
1. CLC breached both Timeshare Regulations  1992 Act  by selling our Clients the Points 
timeshare as described above
2. The Bank breached the Timeshare Regulations  1992 Act by making payments within 
the Clients withdrawal period.3. The Bank as principal of its agent, is responsible for the actions of its agent.
4. These breaches of the law have resulted in the Bank being negligent as the Bank had a 
duty of care to the Client to ensure all laws were being complied with.
5. The Bank cannot claim ignorance of Resorts actions as a defence as the Bank and the 
Resort agreement were linked agreements so the Bank had a duty of care to ensure all 
laws were being complied with.
6. As highlighted in the Barclays Partner Finance v FCA case (Appendix 5), the Bank is 
responsible for the actions of its agent.
7. As a result of these breaches of the law where the Banks was negligent, the relationship 
between the Bank and the Client is unfair under S140A of the CCA.
8. S14A extends the time the Client has to make a claim to the Bank due to the Banks 
negligence.
9. Under S14A, the Client has to make a claim to the Bank within 3 years from the date of 
knowledge of when the Client became aware of these breaches  when the Client contacted 
[PR] which is within the 3 year limit.
10. The Clients claim is therefore not time barred.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont currently think 
this complaint should be upheld.
PR has sent us a considerable amount of information and submissions in an effort to explain 
what it thinks the outcome of this complaint should be. However, as this service is designed 
to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts, my role as an ombudsman isnt to 
address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr T) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr T made like claims against BPF under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for those 
claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 5.145 
of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would have 
been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr T had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claims.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr T entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of C.
And as the finance from BPF in 2009 was used to help pay for the purchases, it was when 
he entered into the credit agreements that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in December 2009  which means 
that, at the latest, he had six years from when he entered into the relevant credit agreements 
to make his claims. But as he didnt do that until March 2021, and as I cant see a reason 
why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, his claims are likely 
to have been too late. And for that reason, I think BPF has a defence to them under the LA.
Grounds to Extend Time
S. 14A of the LA provides claimants with a Special time limit for negligence actions [in 
which] facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual. And PR says that 
this provision gives Mr T more time to make his claims. In its view, BPF acted negligently 
when it paid the C what remained of the purchase prices in 2009 because it owed Mr T a 
duty of care to ensure that the 1992 Act was complied with by C.
The PR has suggested that both the s.140A and s.75 claims were made in time because 
s.14A of the LA. However, as I will discuss below the claim under s.140A was made in time without the need to rely on s.14A.
A claim for negligence is a cause of action in tort. And as noted in paragraph 32.35 of 
Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, s. 75 of the CCA cant find a claim in tort against 
the creditor except on the basis of a fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation. But on my 
reading of this complaint, Mr Ts allegations of misrepresentation dont set out in any detail 
the representations that are said to have been made by C  let alone assert, with that detail 
in mind, that C owed him a relevant duty of care when making such representations. So, to 
the extent that there were s. 75 claims for misrepresentation, s. 14A of the LA doesnt help 
Mr Ts cause.
The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr T and BPF were 
unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies 
to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years, and as I understand it the loan 
was repaid in 2018 and the claim was made in March 2021 and it was made in time.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr T could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against BPF anyway.
Mr Ts alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little to nothing to persuade me that BPF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mr T could afford to repay 
what he was borrowing.
PR seems to suggest that, because C was BPFs statutory agent under s. 56 of the CCA, 
BPF owed Mr T a duty of care to ensure that C complied with the 1992 Act. And PR says 
that BPF breached that duty by failing to carry out  before granting Mr T credit and paying C 
 the due diligence necessary to ensure that the product purchased by Mr T wasnt sold by 
C in breach of the 1992 Act.
However, English law recognises that there cant be a duty of care owed to everyone, in 
every situation and against all forms of harm. And there are legal tests to ascertain whether 
a duty of care is owed to someone in a given situation. They are:
1. A three-stage test set down in Caparo Industries v Dickman [1990]  which asks whether:
i. The damage was foreseeable.
ii. There was a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties.
iii. Its fair, just and reasonable in all the circumstances to impose a duty of care.2. The assumption of responsibility test in Henderson v Merrett Syndicates Ltd [1995], 
which was concerned with whether the defendant had taken on the responsibility of 
exercising reasonable care and skill towards the claimant.
3. Situations in which a duty of care was owed to the claimant by the defendant because 
such a duty had already been established by the courts.
Yet despite PRs lengthy submissions, it hasnt persuaded me with reference to any of these 
tests or relevant authorities that the lender owed the debtor and the purchaser of a 
timeshare a duty of care to ensure that the product they were purchasing wasnt sold by C in 
breach of a relevant regulation  particularly one that imposed a criminal sanction.
PR also seems to suggest that Mr T had a cause in negligence against BPF because it 
breached the 1992 Act directly by making payments to C during Mr Ts withdrawal period. 
But, in my view, it wasnt possible for BPF to breach the 1992 Act.
Regulation 10 of the Timeshare Regulations 1997 inserted the following provision into the 
1992 Act in relation to advance payments:
(1) A person who enters, or proposes to enter, in the course of a business into a timeshare 
agreement to which this Act applies as offeror must not (either in person or through another 
person) request or accept from the offeree or proposed offeree any advance payment before 
the end of the period during which notice of cancellation of the agreement may be given 
under section 5 or 5A of this Act.
(2) A person who contravenes this section is guilty of an offence and liable
a. on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, and
b. on conviction on indictment, to a fine.
See Murphy v Brentwood District Council [1991].
(3) Subsection (1) above only applies if the offeree or proposed offeree
a. is an individual, and
b. is not acting in the course of a business.
(4) Subsection (1) above only applies if
a. the accommodation which is the subject of the agreement or proposed agreement is 
accommodation in a building, or
b. some or all of the accommodation in the pool of accommodation which is the subject of 
the agreement or proposed agreement is accommodation in a building, as the case may be.
And on my reading of that provision, it was only C  or its agent  who could breach it. After 
all, it was only a timeshare provider or its agent who could enter into a timeshare agreement 
in the course of business and request or accept payment before the end of the withdrawal 
period.
As things stand, therefore, I cant see why any of Mr Ts claims were likely to have been 
made in time under the LA.
CommissionI know PR says that Mr T has concerns about undisclosed commission. But had such a 
payment been made to C by BPF, I havent seen anything to suggest BPF would have 
breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything to suggest it was under a regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Whats more, as I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like the supplier 
in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%.
So, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely that the levels of 
commission normally paid in situations like the one in question were high enough to put BPF 
on notice that not disclosing commission to Mr T risked making their debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair.
The Purchase Agreement
PRs argument that the purchase agreement was null and void was framed as giving rise to 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s. 140A. But as Ive already explained why the 
claims under that provision were likely to have been made out of time under the LA, it isnt 
necessary to consider this argument in that context.
However, providing credit or otherwise being a creditor under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services Compulsory 
Jurisdiction in December 2009. As the PRs argument here is to suggest that the credit 
agreement couldnt and shouldnt have been enforced by BPF because the associated 
purchase agreements were unenforceable, Ive considered the argument separately to Mr 
Ts s. 140A claims.
Its possible that the purchase agreements entered into by Mr T in December 2009 failed to 
comply with the information requirements in the 1992 Act. But nowhere in that Act (nor the 
European Directive 94/47/EC) can I see that a purchase agreement could be rescinded by a 
consumer if the information in question wasnt provided. And thats both a relevant and 
important consideration here as, generally speaking, a purchase agreement isnt rescindable 
simply because it  or part of it  was or became unenforceable.
The legal basis on which PR makes its argument here isnt entirely clear as it hasnt drawn 
my attention to any general points of law or authorities that deal with the situation in which a 
supply contract was/is unenforceable against the consumer.
I recognise that it was held by the Supreme Court in Durkin v DSG Retail [2014] UKSC 21 
(Durkin) that, if a debtor rescinds a supply contract that they have the right to rescind, they 
can also rescind a credit agreement whose purpose had been to finance the debtors entry 
into that supply contract.
The legal mechanism by which this occurs is an implied term that deems the credit 
agreement contingent on the survival of the supply contract.
But, in the absence of any case law, I dont think the decision in Durkin can be said to have 
any application in a situation in which a supply contract was/is unenforceable against the 
consumer. An unenforceable purchase agreement under the 1992 Act is very different from 
one that the consumer is entitled to rescind. And even when the unenforceability of a 
purchase agreement is invoked by a consumer to support a CCA claim (as here), Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that it equates to terminating the contract, let alone unwinding it 
from the start.
So, the fact that the purchase agreement entered into by Mr T might have been (and still 
might be) unenforceable against him has very different legal consequences to those which flow from the rescission of a supply contract. Any attempt to apply Durkin here would require 
a considerable extension of its reasoning by the courts. And for that reason and those 
above, Im not currently persuaded that this is a reason to uphold this complaint.
As for the judgment of the Spanish Supreme Court that PR says is relevant, I dont think it 
helps Mr Ts cause either. My understanding is that agreements with C were to be construed 
in accordance with English law.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the purchase agreement entered into at the time of the 
purchase was any different. So, I cant see how the judgment of a Spanish court can be 
applied directly to the question as to whether the relevant purchase agreement was/is 
voidable under English law. And for that reason, I dont currently think there are any 
implications on the credit agreement that justify upholding this complaint.
The Lending Decision
While PR says that Mr T suffered detriment because the right checks werent carried out 
before BPF lent to him, very little has been said about this particular allegation. And even if I 
were to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr T 
before also concluding that he lost out as a result. As I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that was the case, I dont currently think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its 
circumstances.
PR didnt agree and submitted a detailed response. In summary it said:
C had breached the Timeshare Regulations. In particular Mr T was not given key 
information about the properties. 
C had contravened the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading (CPUT) 
Regulations 2008 by not providing relevant information leading to a misleading 
omission.
As the key information had not been provided the withdrawal period was extended to 
three months and 14 days during which BPF should not have made payment to C. 
However it had paid the money over after some 17 days. 
Mr T and Mrs R were unduly pressurised and Mrs R was pregnant at the time and 
fainted during the meeting.
Mr T and Mrs R were subsequently made bankrupt.
Under s.56 the legislation for unfair relationships, s.140A, had effect and due to the 
failure to provide the necessary information this claim should succeed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C argues that R failed to provide the required information under the Timeshare 
Regulations 2010. I have only been provided with some documentation from the sale and so 
it is impossible to say what information was provided. They require amongst other things in 
Schedule 1:Short description of the product (e.g. description of the immovable property):
Exact nature and content of the right(s):
Exact period within which the right which is the subject of the contract may be exercised and, if necessary, its 
duration:
Date on which the consumer may start to exercise the contractual right:
If the contract concerns a specific property under construction, date when the accommodation and 
services/facilities will be completed/available:
Part 3 
where the contract concerns a specific immovable property, an accurate and detailed 
description of that property and its location; where the contract concerns a number of 
properties (multi-resorts), an appropriate description of the properties and their location; 
where the contract concerns accommodation other than immovable property, an appropriate 
description of the accommodation and the facilities,
Firstly, based on the extracts above and my wider reading of the Act, it makes provision for 
timeshare accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it most likely was 
drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing in the 2010 Act makes me think 
selling those types of timeshares was prohibited. 
So, I dont think all timeshare agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week 
to comply with the Act in the way PR argues. I think setting out the resorts Mr T could use (in 
other words, the pool of accommodation) was sufficient for the purposes of the regulations. 
And PR hasnt argued that Mr T and Mrs R didnt know which properties they could use, or 
that the relevant properties werent disclosed to them. So, I am not persuaded C failed to 
comply with the Timeshare Act requirements on this point.
This means I also dont think the longer withdrawal period applies, or that C or BPF 
breached the Timeshare Act by taking advance payments within the withdrawal period.
In any event, there is nothing in the Timeshare Act 2010 that means the timeshare 
agreement would be unenforceable, even if the minimum standard information requirements 
or other requirements under the Timeshare Act were not complied with. Given I still do not 
agree that C breached the Timeshare Act 2010 in the way PR argued, I also still dont think 
Mr T had a claim for negligence against either C or BPF on this basis. It follows that I also 
still disagree that section 14A of the LA should apply to extend the applicable time limits for 
Mr Ts claims under the CCA.
Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading (CPUT) Regulations 2008
PR says that information omitted by C contravened CPUT Regulations. These state: 
6.(1) A commercial practice is a misleading omission if, in its factual context, taking account 
of the matters in paragraph (2)
(a)the commercial practice omits material information,(b)the commercial practice hides material information,
(c)the commercial practice provides material information in a manner which is unclear, 
unintelligible, ambiguous or untimely, or
(d)the commercial practice fails to identify its commercial intent, unless this is already 
apparent from the context,
and as a result it causes or is likely to cause the average consumer to take a transactional 
decision he would not have taken otherwise.
I dont believe this is an argument which was raised with BPF, but I believe it is reasonable 
for me to consider it since it is linked to the other arguments raised in connection with s.140A
PR has indicated that it considers the non-disclosure of information required by regulation 12 
of the Timeshare Regulations was also a material breach for CPUT.  However, as I explain 
above I do not consider there was a failure under the Timeshare Regulations. I believe Mr T 
was aware he was buying a timeshare which gave him access to holiday accommodation. 
Not specifying a property is not misleading information.
PR said in its claim that: Our client was finding it more and more difficult to secure 
holidays This indicates that he had taken some holidays which suggests that he made 
use of his purchase. In other words I dont believe that PR has demonstrated there was a 
material omission which would allow me to uphold this complaint.
Affordability
PR has submitted a Letter of Discharge of Debtor for Mr T and one for his wife. This shows 
that he was discharged in August 2017. It appears that he entered bankruptcy in or around 
September 2013. His loan account with BPF records monthly payments of £152.96 being 
made up to and including January 2013. From April 2013 through to September 2013 Mr T 
made reduced payments. The loan balance of £9,311. 23 was written off in October 2018 
after a lump sum payment of 1,030.79. 
I have no other information about Mr Ts financial position and I cannot say what led to his 
bankruptcy. PR simply says that the bankruptcy came about due to the levels of debt, but 
does not explain with any detail the role played by this loan. Nor does it set out Mr Ts 
financial position at the time it was taken out. He was able to maintain payments for some 
three years and this does not indicate that the loan repayments were unaffordable until much 
later. 
The Sale
Mrs R has said they were put under pressure during the meeting to make the purchase. I 
appreciate that the sales representatives will have endeavoured to get a sale, but I am not 
persuaded that it was not open to Mr T to say no. He also had a 14 day window in which to 
withdraw from the agreement which he did not take. Overall, I do not consider this would 
allow me to uphold this complaint. 
Conclusion
While I have every sympathy with Mr T I do not consider I can uphold his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 September 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman