DRN-2674464
The complaint
 Mr P has complained about what HSBC UK Bank PLC has done to put things right following 
his complaint that it mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In August 2019, Mr Ps representatives wrote to HSBC to ask for details of any PPI policies 
Mr P had had with any credit cards, loans or mortgages. But HSBC said Mr Ps signature 
and address differed from the information held on its records  and so said Mr P needed to 
verify his identity and address. It wrote to Mr Ps representative to tell them this in February 
2020. 
Mr P says he sent HSBC a copy of his identity documents at that time. HSBC says it didnt 
hear from Mr P until September 2020. In either case, HSBC continued to ask Mr P for copies 
of his identity documents. In November 2020, Mr P referred the matter to this service.
Then, in December 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr P to say it had found PPI alongside three 
accounts:
a policy alongside a credit card it said began in February 2003;
a policy alongside another credit card that it said began in 2005; and
a policy alongside a personal loan that began in May 2005.
A few days later, HSBC wrote to Mr P to say it intended to uphold his complaints about the 
PPI. It offered to pay Mr P £1,452.98. This was made up of:
£460.53 for the first credit card;
£294.76 for the second credit card; and
£697.69 for the personal loan.
Mr P didnt agree with this offer.
He wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
looking at the PPI claim. He suggested compensation of £50 a month, or by that 
point, £950.
He said he held PPI for longer periods than HSBC had used when working out the 
compensation. In particular, he said (1) there was no evidence showing the start or 
end dates of the PPI alongside the loan, (2) the credit card that HSBC said started in 
2005 in fact started in February 2004 and continued until July 2006, (3) the PPI 
alongside the other credit card in fact began in 2001 and continued until March 2005. 
For these reasons, he said he should get £3,407.49.
An adjudicator looked at all of this. Based on what hed seen, he thought that what HSBC 
had offered was fair. And though it had taken a while to verify Mr Ps identity, he wasnt 
persuaded that HSBC intentionally delayed Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicator. In particular, he said it wasnt possible for him to have 
applied for PPI alongside his credit card in February 2003, as he was deployed with HM 
Forces at the time. And he provided a statement from his partner, agreeing with this and 
saying hed sent HSBC copies of his paperwork in March 2020.
Our adjudicator sent this information to HSBC, and asked if it would backdate the offer on 
that card to 2001. HSBC said it would agree to do this  and would make assumptions about 
what Mr P would have paid to the card and PPI during the periods before it had details of the 
actual premiums charged.
I issued my provisional findings on the complaint on 26 March 2021. I said that, subject to 
anything else Mr P or HSBC sent me, HSBC had now offered fair compensation for mis-
selling PPI.
As I saw it, the main issues in Mr Ps complaint were
whether what HSBC had offered to put things right in respect of Mr Ps policies was 
fair, and
whether HSBC needs to do anything further to put things right in view of the delays to 
Mr Ps complaint.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect the business to put the consumer as far as possible in the financial 
position theyd be in if they hadnt had the policy.
Here Mr P was complaining about three PPI policies. Two of them were sold to cover credit 
cards. One was sold to cover repayments towards a personal loan. I looked at each of these 
in turn.
The first credit card
I noted that HSBC had sent us extracts from its systems which stated that the PPI started in 
February 2003 and continued until it was cancelled in February 2005. However, following our 
involvement, HSBC had now agreed to assume that this policy started when the card 
opened in 2001.
As this PPI policy protected payments towards a credit card, the cost of the policy was 
charged to the credit card account when HSBC produced Mr Ps statements. This means 
hed repay the extra he was charged, with interest, as he made his regular credit card 
repayments. Mr P needed to get back the extra hed paid.
Id looked at what HSBC had done. It said it knew what it charged Mr P in premiums from 
March 2003 to August 2003; it also knew what it had charged in premiums in October and 
November 2003, and from January 2004 until April 2004. It used this information to work out 
what it had charged Mr P for the PPI. And during the periods when it doesnt have this 
information, it had made assumptions about what Mr P was charged for the PPI based on 
Mr Ps balances during the period it did have information.
I didnt think it was unreasonable that, after all this time, HSBC didnt have full records of 
what Mr P paid for the PPI. The account closed in 2005  over fifteen years ago  and HSBC isnt required to keep this information indefinitely. Wed asked Mr P if he had any paperwork 
showing what he actually paid for the PPI during this period  but he hadnt got anything. So 
in the absence of better information about how Mr P actually used the card I didnt think 
HSBCs assumptions were unreasonable.
HSBC had sent us an up-to-date calculation of Mr Ps compensation. It said that during the 
period it had information, it charged Mr P £50.51 for the PPI. It said it would add a further 
£56.37 for the period from July 2001 to March 2003, and £59.70 during the period from April 
2004 until the account closed in 2005. In the remaining months, it estimated it charged Mr P 
a further £8.30 in premiums.
In total, it said it charged Mr P £174.88 in PPI premiums. It worked out it charged £365.31 in 
interest on those premiums. It also offered Mr P simple interest of £88.23 to compensate him 
for the time hed been out of pocket. After tax, HSBC proposed to pay Mr P £610.78.
Having looked at the way HSBC worked this out, I was satisfied that the refund fairly 
reflected the premiums Mr P was most likely charged for PPI on this card. The simple 
interest reflects the charges for PPI during the period HSBC had records. Where HSBC 
didnt have statement data, it instead used a far more generous method to work out the 
interest it may have charged to the account because of PPI. This meant the interest was 
double what it says it charged Mr P in premiums  which I thought exaggerated the impact 
the PPI had on the account. And its clear that it was very generous when compared to the 
compensation payable for credit card 2 (below) for which HSBC had all the statements it 
needs to calculate a fair offer.
Overall, I thought the figure HSBC has reached represents fair compensation for the mis-
sale of the PPI alongside the first card.
The second credit card
HSBC said this card started in March 2005  and the PPI started at the same time. It had 
sent us an extract from its systems. I saw this showed a start date for the card and the 
insurance of 21 March 2005. HSBC had sent us a full list of the premiums charged on this 
account. This recorded that the first premium was posted to the account on 11 April 2005, 
and then continued to be charged each month. The final known premium was charged to the 
account on 9 November 2005. The records also stated that PPI was cancelled from 8 
December 2005.
Mr P said this was wrong. He said he own records showed the account started in February 
2004  and continued until July 2006.
Ive thought about whats most likely to have happened based on what both Mr P and HSBC 
had said. I noted that wed asked Mr P if he had any records showing he had PPI  and he 
told us he didnt have any. And so while Id carefully considered what Mr P had said, I didnt 
think that what hed said, on its own, gave me grounds to conclude that HSBCs records 
were wrong. Its consistent with the other information I had about what Mr P paid towards the 
card.
I then looked at the details of HSBCs offer. HSBC said it charged an extra £145.16 to Mr Ps 
card because of the PPI. It had worked out the interest charged on those premiums was 
£5.29. And in its original offer, it included simple interest of £180.38 to compensate Mr P for 
the time hes been out of pocket. After tax, HSBC had offered to pay Mr P £294.76.
Looking at all of this, I saw the premiums HSBC included In the offer matched the total 
premiums shown in its records  and reflected the start and end dates for the policy shown in its records. Though the amount of interest included in the refund was a lot less, the PPI 
was only a small part of the balance of Mr Ps account, and he only had the policy for 8 
months before it was cancelled. And the offer included simple interest to compensate him for 
the time he had been out of pocket. I was satisfied that, overall, the amount HSBC offered 
fairly reflects the impact the PPI had on his account.
The loan
I next considered HSBCs offer in respect of the loan.
According to HSBC, Mr P had borrowed £4,000 in May 2005. At the same time hed applied 
for a PPI policy. The policy cost £685.77, and this amount was added to the loan. This is 
called a single premium PPI policy, and meant Mr P repaid the extra he borrowed, with 
interest, as part of his monthly loan repayments. HSBC said the loan ended early, in January 
2006. It said that when the loan ended, a small refund of the extra Mr P borrowed to pay for 
the insurance was paid to the loan account  to reflect the cover Mr P hadnt used. 
Mr P needed to get back the extra he paid for the PPI.
HSBC says the payments towards the loan were £160.08 a month. This included £23.43 a 
month to pay for the PPI. HSBC had included the 8 payments Mr P made towards the policy 
in its refund. These added up to £187.42.
HSBC said Mr P repaid this loan by taking a new loan, also for £4,000, in January 2006. At 
that point, Mr P would still have needed to pay £655.99 towards the extra he borrowed for 
the PPI. But HSBC says that as Mr P had to cancel the PPI, it paid a small refund of 
£418.05. And as Mr P was repaying the loan early, it also applied an interest rebate of 
£96.11. This means Mr P only needed to borrow an extra £141.83 to repay the extra hed 
borrowed to pay for the PPI. This means Mr P needed to pay an extra £4.85 a month 
towards his new loan. As this second loan continued until October 2008, in total Mr P had to 
pay an extra £164.74.
HSBC had also worked out that Mr P paid an extra £8.76 as part of the early repayment 
charge when the first loan ended. 
In total, HSBC said Mr P had paid an extra £360.93 because of the PPI on his loan. And it 
has added simple interest  - the rate is 8% a year  to the extra Mr P paid, to compensate 
him for the time hes been out of pocket. In total it offered to pay Mr P £697.69.
Mr P was concerned HSBC didnt have evidence showing when the loans started or ended. 
And he asked whether this compensation took into account any commission staff were paid 
for selling the product.
I looked at this. I saw HSBCs records included the date the loan started, how much Mr P 
borrowed  including the amount Mr P borrowed to pay for the PPI, and the interest rate. I 
was satisfied the payments HSBC used in its calculation reflect these. It also showed the 
date the PPI was cancelled and the refund when the loan ended.
I was also satisfied the offer included the extra Mr P paid for the PPI. I acknowledged Mr Ps 
comments about commission to HSBCs staff. I didnt know whether HSBC paid its staff 
commission for selling PPI. But if that had meant HSBC sold Mr P a policy when it shouldnt 
have, Id expect HSBC to put Mr P in the position hed be in if HSBC hadnt sold the policy  
which is what HSBC had offered to do.
Mr P had also questioned some of the information shown on HSBCs records. In particular, this showed the PPI was cancelled when the loan was repaid early: Mr P said the loan in fact 
went into default. He felt that the information shown on HSBCs records was either incorrect 
or had been doctored.
But I wasnt persuaded that this information was incorrect. I think Mr P replaced the loan in 
2006 with a new loan that wasnt covered by PPI. So he used the proceeds of the new loan 
to repay the existing one.
Based on what Id seen, I was satisfied that this part of HSBCs offer reflected the extra Mr P 
paid towards this loan.
Additional compensation for the delays looking at the complaint
Finally, Mr P had said that he should get further compensation for the time it took for HSBC 
to look into his complaint. In particular, he said hed had to chase HSBC repeatedly before 
theyd look at his complaint  and that HSBC kept asking for proof of his identity even after 
hed sent them details of this.
I said I had every sympathy with Mr P and didnt doubt hed had a very difficult time. I noted 
in particular what both he and his partner had told us about his circumstances since 2019 
and the impact this had been having on him. But having considered all the information, 
including HSBCs explanation of what happened, I didnt think a further award for trouble and 
upset would be appropriate.
HSBC told us that Mr P initially got in touch with them in August 2019, giving an address 
which Ill call Address A. This wasnt an address HSBC held on its records, and so HSBC 
says it replied to ask Mr P to attend a branch to update his details  and explained that 
unless he did this, it wouldnt be able to correspond with him further.
Later that month, a claims management company wrote to HSBC on Mr Ps behalf. This time 
it gave another address, Address B, and enclosed a letter of authority in Mr Ps name. Again, 
this address didnt match the address shown in HSBCs records. HSBC was also concerned 
that the signature on the letter of authority didnt match its records. HSBC wrote to Mr Ps 
representative in February 2020 to ask Mr P to attend a branch to prove his identity and 
provide a new signature mandate.
Mr P said he then wrote to HSBC with a copy of his passport. Hed sent us a copy of this 
letter. I note this letter gave a third address, Address C. The letter says hed enclosed a copy 
of the passport information page and sent a copy to his representative. He asked HSBC to 
send all future correspondence directly to his home address.
HSBC doesnt have a record of receiving this letter in March. It says it didnt receive anything 
from Mr P until September 2020. It sent us a copy of letter from Mr P dated 21 September 
2020. This letter was very similar to the letter Mr P says he sent in March: it said that Mr P 
had recently been told by his representative that HSBC needed proof of identification, and 
enclosed a copy of the passport information page. Similarly, it said that Mr P had been 
having delay and difficulties with his representative and asked HSBC to send 
correspondence directly to him in the first instance.
A few days later, Mr Ps representatives wrote to HSBC, also enclosing a copy of the 
passport. But as Mr P had told HSBC to correspond with him directly, HSBC said theyd 
need a new letter of authority  and HSBC said it still needed proof of Mr Ps new address. It 
wrote to Mr Ps representatives on 5 November, asking him to either attend a branch or to 
use their online digital identity verification service to prove his identity or address.HSBC said that on 18 November, Mr P called them. Its notes recorded that at this time they 
told Mr P that the copy of the passport theyd received was poor, and so couldnt be used for 
verification. It appears that Mr P then wrote to the chief executive of HSBC with a copy of his 
documents. At around the same time Mr P referred the complaint to this service. HSBC now 
accepted the documents and started to investigate Mr Ps complaint.
Having carefully considered all of the above, I didnt think HSBC had unreasonably delayed 
Mr Ps complaint:
Based on what Id seen at the time, it appeared Mr P had contacted HSBC from three 
different addresses. Each time he did this, HSBC needed to verify his identity. I didnt 
think that was unreasonable. I think it would be surprising for a bank to correspond 
with someone about an account if they werent satisfied that they were dealing with 
the actual account holder.
I recognised that Mr P thinks that, as he no longer banked with HSBC, it didnt matter 
what his address was. But I was satisfied that HSBC still had a responsibility to make 
sure they were dealing with the correct person.
HSBC told Mr P and his representatives the steps he needed to take to verify his 
identity  to attend a branch or (in November) use an online ID verification service. 
When HSBC wrote to Mr Ps representative on 28 February 2020, it told them not to 
send Mr Ps identity documents to their PPI complaints department as they would not 
be accepted and would cause further delay to his complaint. HSBC told Mr Ps 
representatives this again when it wrote to them in November. Yet Mr P and his 
representatives continued to send HSBC this information by post.
I acknowledged that Mr P says he sent a copy of his passport information page to 
HSBC in March 2020  though I also noted HSBC said it has no record of receiving 
this. But HSBC had already told Mr P, through his representatives, that it couldnt 
accept this documentation that way. Mr P was writing to them from a new address, 
and the letter didnt include any other information  such as account numbers or 
complaint reference numbers  that would help them locate his complaint. So while I 
believe Mr P when he said he tried to send HSBC this information at that time, I didnt 
think it unreasonable if HSBC wasnt able to act on it.
Finally, Mr P had professional representation. He had someone to help him bring this 
complaint. I noted that Mr P had said he told his representatives to remove 
themselves from his claim, in November 2020, because he was dissatisfied with their 
poor service and lack of updates. And I also saw that Mr P had told HSBC he was 
dissatisfied with the way his representatives were dealing with his complaint in his 
letters to them.
Nevertheless, the compensation HSBC had agreed to pay includes some compensation for 
the extra time this has taken to sort out. This is because the compensation included simple 
interest to compensate Mr P for the time hes been out of pocket. 
For these reasons, I thought HSBC had offered fair compensation for mis-selling PPI to Mr 
P. And that subject to anything else HSBC or Mr P told me, I intended to tell HSBC to 
recalculate its offer, to bring the simple interest up to date before it pays Mr P, if it hadnt 
already.
The response to my provisional decision
I said Id consider any further comments and evidence I received before 25 April 2021.HSBC has replied to say it doesnt have any further points it wishes to raise.
Mr P disagrees with my provisional findings:
He says he doesnt have  and hasnt had  any links to Address A. He also doesnt 
think I should place weight on addresses as he provided a valid UK passport, the 
gold standard in ID where sufficiency is concerned.
As soon as he was aware of the additional ID verification request made by HSBC in 
February 2020, he sent the necessary information promptly. Any previous or 
subsequent address change is irrelevant as they had his ID from March onwards.
He thinks my comments surrounding the situation of the first credit card were evasive 
and selective in their facts and the weight given to his evidence. He thinks I didnt 
give weight to what hed said about his deployment abroad.
He says HSBC has used the time elapsed between 2006 and 2019 as a way of 
obscuring and obstructing the PPI redress process. He names two employees of 
HSBC who he says have lied to him, and says this is now subject to a formal 
complaint to the Financial Conduct Authority. 
He says HSBC hasnt paid him anything to date.
He feels that weve taken HSBCs side as more believable even when weve been 
presented with evidence from himself and his partner. He doesnt think HSBCs 
evidence is credible. Hes also commented negatively on HSBCs global track 
record in compliance.
As I have received a response from both Mr P and HSBC, Ive now reviewed the complaint 
again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments in response to my provisional findings.
Ive first considered Mr Ps comments about the first credit card. He says he couldnt have 
bought the PPI alongside this credit card in 2003 as he was deployed overseas  and he 
doesnt think I gave this sufficient weight in my provisional decision.
But although I didnt comment on this at length in my provisional findings, that was because 
HSBC has already agreed to update its original offer to include the period from 2001 until 
2003. Mr P has provided a plausible reason why he mightnt have been able to apply for PPI 
in 2003  and HSBC has agreed to update its offer on this basis. Im satisfied that HSBC has 
limited records from that period  and I dont think thats unreasonable given the time thats 
elapsed since the card closed. And given the uncertainty around when this policy started, I 
think that assuming it started at the same time as the card is reasonable  its one of the 
most common points at which PPI is added to a card.
With that in mind, I think HSBCs latest offer with respect to the first card is reasonable. And 
as Mr P has not made any further comments about the offers on the other credit card and 
the loan  and as HSBC hasnt sent me anything further to consider, I reach the same 
findings in respect of those as I did in my provisional decision (above) for the same reasons.I next turn to Mr Ps comments about whether he should receive an award for the delays. As 
I explained in my provisional decision, HSBCs offer does include an element to compensate 
him for the time hes been out of pocket. But Mr P still wants further compensation because 
of the time it took to sort things out.
However, while I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr P, and while Ive carefully 
considered what hes said, Im not persuaded to depart from the approach I set out in my 
provisional findings. I dont think it would be fair to award further compensation for any 
delays.
Im not persuaded HSBC did anything wrong by continuing to ask Mr P for details of his 
identity and address. Mr P and his representatives gave HSBC two different addresses, and 
HSBC thought it had received correspondence from Mr P from a third address, Address A. I 
note Mr P says he had no connection to this address. But I think that just reinforces the 
importance of HSBC checking that Mr P was who he said he was.
Mr P says he did this by sending a copy  a high resolution scan  of the information page 
from his passport. I dont know why Mr P did this. HSBCs letter to his representatives very 
clearly asked Mr P to bring his paperwork into a branch. It also very clearly said that he 
shouldnt send his documents to their PPI complaints department as they wouldnt be able to 
accept them this way and it would cause further delay to his complaint.
But in any case, HSBC still needed to verify Mr Ps address. The letter Mr P sent HSBC 
enclosed a copy of his passport. But it doesnt mention any enclosures showing Mr Ps 
address. And so even if HSBC received that letter  and it doesnt have records of receiving 
this until September  it wasnt in a position to take Mr Ps complaint forward.
Mr P thinks HSBC only needed his passport. But in my experience its very common for 
financial businesses to require both proof of identity and address.
Im also mindful that in both the letter in March and the similar letter HSBC received in 
September Mr P complained about the delays and difficulties hed been having with his 
representative. So while Mr P now says HSBC is responsible for these delays, it seems that, 
at the time, Mr P felt his representative was to blame. Im not going to tell HSBC to pay Mr P 
additional compensation if his representative didnt pursue things as it should have done, or 
because the information it gave HSBC about him  or what it told Mr P about the information 
needed by HSBC  was incomplete or inadequate.
Ive considered all the other points Mr P has raised. But these dont change my conclusions. 
While I acknowledge Mr Ps comments about the complaint hes raised with the regulator, 
and about HSBCs approach to compliance more generally, this doesnt affect my 
conclusions.
However, Mr P has confirmed that HSBC hasnt yet paid him the compensation. So before 
HSBC pays Mr P, I expect HSBC to recalculate its offer, to bring the interest up to date. This 
means his compensation will take into account the additional time hes had to wait for the 
complaint to be sorted out.My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has now offered fair 
compensation for mis-selling PPI to Mr P. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to recalculate its offer, 
to bring the interest up to date, and then pay Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman