DRN-1478529
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S remortgaged their property in 2000. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy which would have covered their mortgage repayments for up to two years at a time if 
Mr S couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. 
Mr and Mrs S say they werent aware of the PPI. They say there was no discussion about it 
and they wouldnt have bought it if there had been. They later said that they specifically told 
Halifax they didnt want PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they dont remember any discussion about the PPI. They say no questions 
were asked about it during the meeting where they applied for their mortgage and they didnt 
agree to buy it.
Halifax has provided the paperwork for the mortgage application. Theres a separate section 
for the PPI. It makes it clear that the PPI is optional and Mr and Mrs S have both signed this 
section, as well as the complete mortgage application form. They also completed a separate 
application form solely for the PPI. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S may not remember applying for the PPI but I am 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were aware of the PPI and that they elected to buy it knowing 
they had a choice about it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to take steps to make sure it was 
right for them. Looking at Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale I think that it was. 
Mr and Mrs S chose to buy it, so it seems they wanted this type of cover. Only Mr S was 
covered. Mr S wouldnt have been affected by any terms which might have made it more 
difficult to make a claim, such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment. While Mr S had an entitlement to contractual sick pay and redundancy pay, the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for considerably longer than his sick and redundancy pay would have lasted  up to 24 months for any one claim. Mr and 
Mrs S didnt have any savings to rely on if Mr S was out of work, so the PPI would have 
offered a useful additional benefit.
The cost of the cover was comparable to other similar policies on the market around the 
same time and I havent seen any evidence to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S. 
Its possible Mr and Mrs S didnt get all the information they ideally should have done about 
the policy. But I dont think it would have made a difference to their decision to buy it, 
because it was suitable for them in the way Ive described. So I dont think Mr and Mr S lost 
out as a result of anything Halifax might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, so Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman