DRN-3057776
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) continued to charge him for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr K says he has been experiencing financial difficulties since 2013, hes said he was in a 
cycle of charges which made his situation worse. Mr K complained to Halifax that it should 
have done more to help him. Halifax did not agree that it had done anything wrong, and so 
Mr K referred his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and didnt think Halifax had treated 
Mr K unfairly. Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  including the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges  on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ks complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
amounts Halifax charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. 
But Halifax wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it applied any interest, 
fees and charges to his account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr K fairly and 
reasonably.
I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably though. Mr K has said that he 
was in a spiral of debt from 2013 onwards. But looking at his statements I dont think theres 
anything that should have given Halifax particular cause for concern. While I accept that 
Mr K was using his overdraft regularly, the amount being credited to Mr Ks account each 
month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance 
at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by Mr Ks wages or by other 
credits to the account. 
I do note that Mr K contacted Halifax himself in May 2015 to advise that he was 
unemployed and needed some assistance. Halifaxs notes show that it discussed his 
financial situation with him and suggested he speak to a debt charity, but that Mr K ended 
the call and did not answer when Halifax tried to call him back. And a couple of months 
later I can see that Mr K once again began receiving a regular salary into his account, so 
I dont think Halifax needed to do anything more at that stage. Theres nothing to suggest 
that Mr K then made any further contact to say he was still struggling financially. 
And while there were occasions in later years when Mr K was receiving limited income, and 
the account was overdrawn for extended periods, Mr K was also maintaining credit balances 
in his savings accounts at that time. So when Halifax reviewed his overdraft each year I think 
that, overall, Mr Ks financial position wouldnt have caused it undue concern.
I accept that this doesnt mean that Mr K wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there 
isnt anything which I think ought to have triggered Halifax to review his account in more 
detail, or alerted Halifax to any potential financial difficulty when it did its annual overdraft 
reviews. So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did or that should have prompted 
Halifax to contact Mr K to ask if he needed help.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K, but Im satisfied that Halifax 
didnt treat him unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman