DRN-4132689
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about an attempt to repay an existing lifetime mortgage held with 
Nationwide Building Society, from the proceeds of a new mortgage with a different provider. 
The redemption process was delayed (for reasons Mr M attributes to errors and omissions 
on Nationwides part) causing the mortgage offer from the new provider to expire. A new 
offer was provided, but on a higher interest rate due to the general upward trend in rates 
during the intervening period. 
Mr M is represented in the complaint by Mrs L. Nationwide has offered redress, but Mrs L 
says its not enough as it doesnt cover Mr Ms higher future mortgage costs. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M and Nationwide. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the complaint, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In August 2021, a lender Ill call A issued a lifetime mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs M, with a 
fixed interest rate of 2.65%. On 22 September 2021, Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors  a firm Ill 
call E  requested a redemption statement from Nationwide. Due to an administrative mix-up 
between departments, Nationwide failed to issue the statement but instead, recorded the 
mortgage as having been repaid already. E chased up the redemption statement, and 
received it on 13 October 2021. 
In November 2021, the solicitors acting for A  a firm Ill refer to as K  noted that Nationwide 
had apparently released its charge over the mortgaged property. It further noted that 
Nationwide, having realised it had released its charge in error, had registered a restriction at 
the Land Registry, to protect its interest. K asked Nationwide to remove the restriction so 
that it could complete the new mortgage with A. 
Nationwide said it would remove the restriction immediately after the new mortgage had 
repaid its outstanding mortgage. In the meantime, the original mortgage offer from A had 
expired on 22 November 2021, a new offer was issued; albeit on a fixed interest rate of 
2.95%. The impasse between Nationwide and K took until January 2022 to resolve, when 
Nationwide relented by removing the restriction. The new mortgage completed, at the higher 
rate of 2.95%, and the Nationwide mortgage was repaid in full just before the end of January 
2022.
Mr and Mrs M had complained in November 2021 about the delayed redemption statement, 
and Nationwide had offered compensation of £100 by way of a cheque. Another complaint 
was made in January 2022 about the ongoing problem with the restriction; Mrs L joined the 
complaint as attorney for Mrs M. As part of the new complaint, they returned the £100 
cheque received in November 2021. Nationwide increased its offer of compensation to £350.
The case came to us in April 2022. Sadly by then, Mrs M had died. Our investigator thought 
Nationwide had made a fair offer to resolve the complaint. Mrs L disagreed and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
Under our rules, which are published by the FCA in a document called DISP, we can 
consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr M is a consumer, as was Mrs M when she was 
alive, so both met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. That 
eligibility now vests solely in Mr M, represented here by Mrs L.
Mrs L has set out, in some detail, that the dispute is not just about the events themselves, 
but also about how Nationwide dealt with the complaints they made. The problem there is 
that were not free to consider every complaint, or part thereof, we receive. Section 2.3.1 of 
DISP 2.3.1 out the activities we can consider. The relevant activities in this case are 
regulated activities, as stated in DISP 2.3.1 (1). Complaint-handling is not a regulated 
activity in its own right. 
The DISP rules at 2.3.1 say that we can consider complaints about:
regulated activities; 
payment services; 
lending money; 
paying money by plastic card; and 
ancillary banking services.
In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection 
with the above, such as advice, payment processing or account administration. However, 
complaint-handling is not a regulated activity, and isnt ancillary to a regulated activity. 
What that means is when a complaint (or, as here, part of a complaint) is about how the 
underlying complaint was handled, separate from the matter complained of in the first place I 
wont be looking into that. My review is confined to the underlying complaint about how 
Nationwide handled the redemption of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage with it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Nationwide has accepted it made 
mistakes and has offered redress to put things right. What I have to decide, is whether 
Nationwides offer is fair, or if it needs to do more. 
Nationwide initially offered £100 compensation for time, trouble and upset, but increased that 
to £350 in its response to the second complaint. In all the circumstances, I find that to be fair, 
as far as it goes. 
The sticking point is over the claim for financial losses that Mrs L believes are a 
consequence of the delay. In essence, these are the cumulative extra monthly costs Mr M 
will incur from taking a mortgage on a higher interest rate than that which he was originally 
offered by A.
At the root of this claim is Nationwides mistake in taking off the legal charge. Clearly that 
was wrong. But having done that, registering the restriction was a reasonable step for 
Nationwide to take to protect its interest in the mortgaged property pending repayment of the 
money it was owed. The alternative was to do nothing and allow the re-mortgage to go 
through, but the downside of that is that if anything went wrong and the re-mortgage for any 
reason didnt happen, Nationwide would be left with a debt and no security. 
So Nationwide protected its position by putting the restriction on, undertaking (via its 
solicitors) to remove it simultaneously with the redemption. A solicitors undertaking is a 
binding promise, and whilst its not for me to say A, or K on its behalf, had to accept it, I think 
Nationwide had reasonable grounds to expect that the undertaking would be accepted when 
it was given. 
An undertaking to remove the restriction on repayment of the debt isnt so very different from 
an undertaking to remove the original legal charge on redemption  its unusual, but the 
effect is broadly the same. Nationwide created the problem by removing the charge, but then 
in my view acted reasonably in proposing a course of action that could have allowed the 
re-mortgage to go ahead at the same time as protecting its position in the event the 
re-mortgage didnt complete. 
The timeline that Mrs L has sent us, which came from E  Mr Ms solicitors  suggests that 
Nationwide made this proposal a few days before the original mortgage offer from A expired. 
But even if that were not the case, the available evidence doesnt suggest Nationwide was 
on notice of when the mortgage offer would expire. That being the case, it could not 
reasonably foresee a new offer having to be issued at a higher rate. 
Put all of the above together, and Im not persuaded I can fairly find Nationwide responsible 
for the extra mortgage costs Mr M will now pay going forward.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Nationwide Bank UK PLC to pay Mr M £350 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman