DRN-4250346
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T complain that TSB Bank plc gave them incorrect information regarding 
charges associated with converting a transfer sent in Euros (EUR) to them.
What happened
Mrs and Mr T wanted to transfer 300,000EUR to their TSB account on the understanding 
there would be no handling percentage for TSB converting EUR to Pounds Sterling (GBP). 
They say that the various call handlers Mr T spoke to seemed unaware of the charges 
relating to these types of large transfers. Mr T says that when he pressed for details, they 
told him that only the going rate of exchange plus a £7 fee would apply. He says they were 
adamant the actual exchange rate would be the one currently available and they never 
advised their fixed in house rate would carry a fee of near 5%. Mrs and Mr T say that they 
had two alternative means to transfer the funds which would have cost a fifth of what they 
ended up being charged, but they used TSB based on the information the call handlers told 
Mr T. But this resulted in him receiving £11,019 less than what he expected. He says he 
incurred an extra £38 worth of charges on his phone bill by speaking to TSB. 
Mrs and Mr T made a complaint to TSB. But they did not uphold their complaint, so Mrs and 
Mr T brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator partially upheld Mrs and Mr Ts 
complaint. He said calls to the number Mr T rang were charged at a local rate, so if Mrs and 
Mr T were unhappy with call charges which were in excess of this, theyd need to refer this 
matter to their mobile phone provider as its not TSB Bank who applied the charge. He said 
from the calls hed listened to prior to the transfer, TSB hadnt advised Mr T to send the 
payment in EUR or GBP or advised him theyd use the exchange rate that he assumed. He 
said at no point had Mr T directly requested TSBs exchange rate during these calls.
Our investigator said that there was an opportunity for TSB on 15 November 2022 to explain 
to Mr T that if he sent the payment in EUR then TSB would apply their own rate but if it was 
sent in GBP it would be the sending bank who would apply the exchange rate. He said there 
was also an opportunity to pass Mr T to their international department to explain how the 
payment would be applied. Our investigator said as the experts they could have interpreted 
that Mr T may have benefited from telling him the exchange rate would depend on the day 
and the currency used, so he said TSB should compensate Mrs and Mr T with £150 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs and Mr T said the compensation suggested was meagre compared to the thousands 
they had lost due to the call handlers ability to answer simple questions. Mr T said he was 
advised the service was free and he couldnt understand how they interpreted his query 
about costs and that they believed no percentage charge would be added.  
TSB asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They made a number of points. In 
summary, they said their call handler tried to discuss the exchange rates which would be 
used, but Mr T advised he was not concerned with the exchange rate, and only wanted to 
discuss charges and therefore our investigator appeared to be suggesting that they should 
have ignored Mr Ts statement that he was not concerned about the exchange rate and that 
they should have forced him to listen to information about this when it was not requested. 
They said they cannot advise what the exchange rate is on an incoming payment. This is 
because the rate they use to convert an incoming payment will depend on when the 
payment is received, and they wouldnt know when the payment would arrive with them until 
it actually arrived.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read 
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of this complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
As the funds were sent in EUR, then the receiving bank (in this instance TSB) would need to 
convert the funds into GBP which is the currency the receiving account operated in. This is 
explained on in TSBs terms and conditions, which Mrs and Mr T wouldve needed to agree 
to. The terms and conditions are clear that Well convert the currency into pounds using our 
standard exchange rate on the day we make the conversion. You can find out our exchange 
rates by calling us or asking in branch. So here, Im satisfied that TSB made it clear they 
would use their standard exchange rate and not any other exchange rate which Mrs and Mr 
T may be able to find online or in the press. The TSB exchange rate would not be 
considered to be a fee or a charge. This is why this is not within the TSB banking charges 
guide. 
So Ive listened to the available calls to determine if Mr T was given incorrect information or 
misled by TSB before he initiated the transfer with the sending bank. These calls were on 14 
and 15 November 2022. On the first call, Mr T asked about the costs involved and said the 
funds would be sent in EUR. The call handler tells Mr T that she is going to pass him through 
to their international transfers department as they could help him more than she could. 
Unfortunately, TSB do not have a recording of the call with the international transfers team 
so Im unable to say what was discussed on this call, or if he was successfully transferred to 
the team. But I have listened to a call which Mr T had with TSB the following day (15 
November 2022).
Mr T asks if he should make the transfer in EUR or GBP and the call handler says it 
depends on what the sending banks exchange rate is. Mr T says hes more worried about 
the charges for the transfer as he was worried about a percentage charge. But the call 
handler says the only fee they would charge is a £7 fee for international payments. He says 
they dont have a certain percentage reduction as its not something they do and for 
incoming payments they only have one charge. Mr T says Im not worried about that, Im 
more worried about charges.
The call handler said the only charge would be the £7 fee, but the reality is, based on what 
TSBs banking charges guide shows, a Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) payment to a 
TSB account or any other payment received in Euros would not have a charge. The £7 only 
applied if they received any other payment over £100. But Im not persuaded that this had an 
impact on what happened by quoting the most they could be charged. 
Im satisfied that TSB acted within their terms and conditions Well convert the currency 
into pounds using our standard exchange rate on the day we make the conversion. You can 
find out our exchange rates by calling us or asking in branch. But Mrs and Mr T didnt ask 
TSB what their exchange rate was or an indication of what it was on any call that I listened to, but Mr T did indicate that he wasnt worried about the exchange rate. So Im not 
persuaded they were told incorrect information/misled about TSBs exchange rate. 
The letter dated 28 November 2022 which TSB sent to Mrs and Mr T confirming the 
incoming payment shows that there was no commission charged for the transfer. And it 
shows 150EUR in charges from a corresponding bank. This is something I would expect the 
sending bank to make Mrs and Mr T aware of, and I wouldnt expect TSB to be aware of any 
correspondent bank charges, as the sending bank would be responsible for routing the 
money to them. 
Ive also considered what Mrs and Mr T have said about call costs to TSB. But Mr T chose to 
call TSB, so it would not be proportionate for me to ask TSB to pay for their calls, especially 
when there may have been cheaper alternatives, such as visiting a local branch and they 
could ring through on their behalf if they were unable to answer Mrs and Mr Ts questions. 
And it would be outside of TSBs control how much Mrs and Mr Ts phone provider charged 
them. So it follows I dont intend to ask TSB to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. TSB said they had no further comments to make. Mrs and Mr T did not accept the 
provisional decision. They made a number of points. In summary, they said TSBs staff were 
repeatedly asked to confirm that there was no commission, charges, or fees with their 
exchange of EUR to GBP. They also asked the same question in the branch and the branch 
manager was consulted and Mrs and Mr T were again told what they were told on the 
phone. Mrs and Mr T said that at no time did they see or sign a document showing the rate 
of exchange and the commission involved as they could have transferred the funds at 1.5% 
commission with a third party instead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr T have said about what they were told on the phone and in 
branch. But there was no commission that TSB charged on the transfer. As I said in my 
provisional decision The letter dated 28 November 2022 which TSB sent to Mrs and Mr T 
confirming the incoming payment shows that there was no commission charged for the 
transfer. I also said in my provisional decision that And it (the letter that was sent to them) 
shows 150EUR in charges from a corresponding bank. This is something I would expect the 
sending bank to make Mrs and Mr T aware of, and I wouldnt expect TSB to be aware of any 
correspondent bank charges, as the sending bank would be responsible for routing the 
money to them. So this was not a fee that TSB charged Mrs and Mr T. 
Ive considered what Mrs and Mr T have said about at no time did they see or sign a 
document showing the rate of exchange and the commission involved. But this is because 
they initiated the transfer with their overseas bank. So there would be no requirement for 
TSB to ask them to sign a document to accept the rate of exchange and any commission 
involved (although there was no commission here as confirmed by the letter TSB sent them 
dated 28 November 2022). 
As I said in my provisional decision As the funds were sent in EUR, then the receiving bank 
(in this instance TSB) would need to convert the funds into GBP which is the currency the 
receiving account operated in. This is explained on in TSBs terms and conditions, which Mrs 
and Mr T wouldve needed to agree to. The terms and conditions are clear that Well 
convert the currency into pounds using our standard exchange rate on the day we make the 
conversion. You can find out our exchange rates by calling us or asking in branch. So here, Im satisfied that TSB made it clear they would use their standard exchange rate 
and not any other exchange rate which Mrs and Mr T may be able to find online or in the 
press. The TSB exchange rate would not be considered to be a fee or a charge. This is why 
this is not within the TSB banking charges guide. That is what happened here. TSB acted in 
line with their terms and conditions and applied their standard exchange rate on the day they 
made the conversion. 
Mrs and Mr T did not ask TSB from the calls Ive listened to (or any evidence that either 
party have provided me) for the exchange rate that TSB would use to make such 
conversions from EUR to GBP. If they had done so, in line with the terms and conditions 
You can find out our exchange rates by calling us or asking in branch.  then they may have 
had an indication of what exchange rate TSB were using at the time, and they could have 
compared this with other providers to see if another company had a more preferential 
exchange rate that they applied. But the call handlers did proportionately answer the 
questions Mr T asked them on the phone. So I cant say they made any errors with what 
they told Mr T that would change the outcome of this complaint. 
In summary, Mrs and Mr Ts response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs and Mr T will be 
disappointed, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman