DRN-3688415
Complaint
Mr H says that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly declined a loan application which 
would have helped him clear his credit card debts.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
I can understand why Mr H is unhappy at being declined for a loan which would, if approved, 
have consolidated his debts and reduced his monthly credit commitments. However, lenders 
are required not to lend irresponsibly by ensuring that credit which is affordable is provided 
to prospective borrowers.
Each lender will have its own criteria for assessing applications. And HSBC didnt believe 
that Mr H could sustainably repay any further credit based on information it obtained from  
Mr H and credit reference agencies. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr Hs loan 
application was declined for any other reason. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Hs financial position. But it simply wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for me to say that HSBC should have lent to Mr H in circumstances where it carried out an 
assessment and the results of that assessment appears to have suggested it shouldnt have 
lent. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr H should approach his existing card providers should it be the case that he 
is finding it difficult to make his credit card payments, as an existing lender is required to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should a borrower have difficulties making their 
payments because they are struggling financially.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman