DRN-3667416
The complaint
Mr E complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited failed to adequately negotiate the 
settlement paid to a third party on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E was involved in a road traffic incident during May 2019 which led to a third party being 
injured. The matter ended up in court, with Mr E receiving a driving ban, fines and 
community service.
Admiral dealt with the third party claim against him and paid a settlement amount of around 
£7,500. They then took steps to recoup that from Mr E, because he wasnt covered in the 
circumstances which had arisen.
Mr E complained that the settlement was too high and that he ought to have been able to 
have a say in negotiating the amount  particularly as he was the one liable for it.
An investigator here looked into the matter, but felt Admiral had acted fairly. Mr E didnt 
agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two important things for me to address here. The first, is whether or not Admiral 
should have included Mr E in their settlement negotiations. The second, is whether  in not 
doing so  Mr E has lost out.
A good starting point is the terms and conditions of the insurance policy, which say:
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
This means it is for Admiral to decide how a claim is settled. That isnt to say they shouldnt 
do so fairly, or that they cant involve a policyholder in the process. But, ultimately, it is 
Admirals decision on how the matter is handled. And I am unaware of any rules requiring a 
consultation with their policyholder before doing so.
In view of that, I dont believe Admiral should have consulted Mr E in the negotiations, even 
though they could have done.
I can see that a large part of Mr Es dissatisfaction relates to the amount Admiral paid out, he 
thinks it was too high. But Admiral have explained that they negotiated the settlement 
downwards, so didnt pay the full amount claimed. I believe that demonstrates attempts were 
made to ensure Mr E wasnt out of pocket unnecessarily.
And while Mr E disagrees, he hasnt said or provided anything to make me think hed have 
been able to make better negotiations than Admiral did. They are an insurer and are used to 
negotiating claim settlements. I note Mr Es comments that they may not have tried as hard 
as usual, because they knew theyd be able to recover the settlement from him.
But, Im not persuaded by that argument. Theres no guarantee Admirals recovery from
Mr E would be successful so I consider it likely that would have been a factor in this case. 
And, in any event, Ive seen nothing to persuade me they paid out more than they ought to 
have done.
Overall, Admiral didnt treat Mr E unfairly.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman