DRN-4161642
The complaint
Mr L complains that MPA Financial Management Limited removed itself as the adviser
attached to his pension as an act of malice, which meant his funds were unmanaged and
frozen until he appointed another adviser.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 May 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
in part were set out in that decision. Ive reproduced the relevant parts of it below and it 
forms part of this final decision. 
Provisional decision
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the
complaint to both parties in November 2022. The background and circumstances to the
complaint were set out in that assessment. However to recap, Mr L had previously
complained about MPA in 2020. He referred the matter to us, and ultimately an Ombudsman
issued a decision on his complaint awarding him compensation.
As part of the Ombudsmans final decision, issued on 18 October 2021, the Ombudsman
said:
Based on what Ive seen, the relationship between Mr L and MPA appears to have broken
down. It may be best for both parties if he appoints a new adviser, but that of course is up to
him..
Mr L had accepted the Ombudsmans decision and MPA contacted him on 6 December
2021 to arrange settlement of the Ombudsmans decision. This was for MPA to pay Mr L a
proportion of the ongoing adviser fees it had been paid. In its e-mail to Mr L dated 6
December 2021 MPA said, amongst other things:
Secondly, as you currently hold a proportion of your [name of provider] SIPP assets through
MPA, with a [name of discretionary fund manager], which [the discretionary fund manager]
state can only be held through an IFA, could you please advise us of the IFA who you wish
to advise you on these Investments going forward.
I ask this, as when we contact [the discretionary fund manager] to remove MPA as your
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), they will ask us to name the IFA who will be taking
over as your IFA..
Mr L called MPA on 7 December 2021 to discuss settlement of the Ombudsmans decision,
which MPA followed up with an e-mail confirming its adviser needed to discuss Mr Ls 
ongoing relationship with MPAs Managing Director. There was a series of e-mails 
exchanged between Mr L and MPA, but there was no mention that Mr L was retaining MPA 
as his adviser. Neither Mr L or MPA provided call notes/ or recordings establishing what was 
discussed between Mr L and the Compliance Manager at MPA. However the investigator 
said the e-mails made clear a number of phone calls regarding both the compensation 
payments and delaying the removal of MPA as Mr Ls adviser had taken place. There was 
then no further correspondence until 14 February 2022.
On 14 February 2022 Mr L called the Compliance Manager at MPA as he had been
contacted by the SIPP provider alerting him that he had no financial adviser in place, and
that it was now Mr Ls responsibility to ensure he had sufficient funds to cover the fund
charges. The investigator said this was the first Mr L was aware that MPA had been
removed as his adviser. 
MPA wrote to Mr L on the same day saying this wasnt a deliberate act, but an unintended
consequence of it ensuring it didnt receive any additional ongoing fees from the SIPP
provider given the Ombudsmans decision. In its letter, MPA made clear that it was in
agreement with the Ombudsmans statement regarding their relationship, and that it also
believed it was in Mr Ls best interests to find an alternative financial adviser. It formally
resigned as Mr Ls adviser.
Mr L e-mailed MPA on 15 February 2022 saying he felt MPA had gone behind his back,
and he wanted MPA to re-assign itself as his adviser. MPA reissued its letter confirming it
had resigned.
Our investigator said when reviewing Mr Ls complaint he could see why, based on the tone
and language of the exchanges between Mr L and MPA, the Ombudsman had said it might
be best for Mr L and MPA to part ways.
The investigator thought it was logical given Mr Ls previous complaint was about paying
ongoing fees for a service he didnt feel MPA had delivered. He said whilst neither Mr L or
MPA were able to provide call recordings or notes from its discussions, it appeared Mr L was
only told MPA was no longer acting for him on 14 February 2022.
The investigator said although MPA didnt provide Mr L with advance notice both MPA and
Mr L had the right to terminate the relationship. The investigator said it didnt appear that
Mr L used MPA for investment services in the period between the initial Ombudsman
decision and 14 February 2022. And MPA didnt charge for that period. The investigator said
the relationship had essentially been terminated, albeit without a formal resignation from
either party.
The investigator noted that Mr L had said hed asked MPA to defer it removing itself as his
adviser as he was moving to a new house and wasnt in a position to appoint a new adviser.
However the investigator said as Mr L had now confirmed that his move was complete, it
was reasonable to assume he was now able to find a new adviser for his investments.
Mr L said he would be charged thousands of pounds to find a new adviser and complained
that he had paid MPA fees already. The investigator said Mr Ls previous complaint had
dealt fully with what Mr L considered were inappropriate ongoing fees, and this shouldnt
form part of this complaint. And he said a new advisers fee depended on the adviser, and
he didnt think MPA was responsible for any charges incurred appointing a new adviser.
The investigator said it was clear that the relationship between Mr L and MPA has been
strained throughout. He said MPA had made Mr L aware he would need to seek a new
adviser in its e-mail dated 6 December 2021, but it didnt appear he had taken steps to do 
so.
The investigator didnt think it would be fair for MPA to be forced to remain as Mr Ls adviser
despite the difficult relationship. He thought it was Mr Ls responsibility to find a new adviser.The investigator said he was satisfied that MPA acted within its rights in their termination of
the business relationship, and it wasnt responsible for any charges or time delays in
appointing a new adviser.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for his complaint to be
passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion to the investigator about MPA providing
notice to Mr L; I dont think it was reasonable for MPA to end the relationship without
providing a reasonable and set notice period. However having said that, I dont think the
losses that Mr L has claimed flow from MPAs failure to provide such notice.
I accept that MPA had asked Mr L for details of a new adviser in December 2021 and
indicated its intention to not act for him itself. However I note that in its final response to Mr L
dated 25 August 2022 MPA said that shortly after the Ombudsmans final decision on Mr Ls
original complaint it had instructed the SIPP provider to turn off its ongoing fees. And that
due to an error on the SIPP providers part it had removed MPA as the agent, so MPA
couldnt access information on Mr Ls plan. It went onto say:
Prior to this you had askedour Compliance Manager to delay severing the relationship
with MPA as you were moving house and initially, we agreed to do so. However when this
error occurred with [the SIPP provider] we couldnt access any information on your plan it felt
appropriate to resign.
Like the investigator, Im satisfied it was reasonable for MPA to want to end the relationship
in the circumstances  Ive seen no evidence of malice - the previous Ombudsman had
suggested it was the best course, and MPA told Mr L of its intention in December 2021.
However, although I accept Mr L may have been aware of MPAs longer-term intention, the
evidence suggests he wasnt aware from what date that would be, and the first time he was
told it was actually no longer acting for him was 14 February 2022. MPA didnt provide any
notice period at this point. I accept that Mr L had been alerted to its ultimate intention  but
didnt know when.
The notice period for either party to end their agreement or relationship is usually set out in a
Terms of Business/ Client Agreement or some similar document. The only document that
refers to a notice period I have seen is the MPA Client Service Agreement. This said that
Mr L was required to give written notice if he wished to cancel the agreement for MPA to
provide ongoing services. And that it would then cease payments taken for those services
within 7 business days. The agreement was silent about the amount of notice that MPA was
required to provide to Mr L.
Section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 requires that I determine a
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
of the complaint. The FCAs Principles for Business require that firms must pay due regard
to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Whilst I accept that there doesnt 
appear to be any express agreement between Mr L and MPA about the amount of notice it 
needed to give Mr L, I think in meeting its obligation to pay due regard to Mr Ls interests and 
treat him fairly, MPA should have given some notice.In my experience of these types of agreement, notice of 14 to 28 days is commonly given.
MPA had already told Mr L of its ultimate intention not to act for him. And in all the
circumstances, I think 28 days notice would have been reasonable.
Mr L has said that he wasnt able to arrange an alternative adviser for several months given
all the regulatory and due diligence requirements in order to do so. I accept that Mr L wasnt
an expert, and he would have needed to have found an adviser and gone through the
process of appointing one. But in my experience it shouldnt ordinarily take several months;
MPA had alerted Mr L of its intention in December 2021, and if it had given specific notice on
14 February 2022 I think there should have been sufficient time for Mr L to appoint a new
adviser.
Mr L has said that as a result of having no adviser in place his fund was frozen and the fund
manager wasnt able to make to changes to his fund to stem losses. I think if the fund
manager hadnt been able to make changes that hed intended prior to 14 February 2022, he
would likely have alerted Mr L to this restriction. Im not aware this was the case.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think 28 days notice from 14 February would have
been reasonable, meaning I think Mr L could have had alternative arrangements in place by
around 14 March 2022. The graph that Mr L has provided showing fund performance shows
the value of his fund didnt change significantly during this period  in fact may have
increased slightly. However even if taken from the start of January 2022, Mr Ls fund
appears to have performed on average as well or better than a range of other funds.
Benchmarks that can be used as indicators of market wide fund performance for different
degrees of risk show a general downtrend in returns, for all degrees of risk, during the period
1 January 2022 to 14 March 2022. Mr Ls fund, according to his graph, fell in value by
around 6 to 8%. However even the cautious benchmark fell by around the same amount 
the balanced benchmark by 8 to 10%, and the aggressive by about 12%.
Mr Ls fund didnt perform badly in the period 14 February 2022 to 14 March 2022 (it may
have increased slightly, and performed marginally better than the benchmarks Ive referred
to above by around 0.5 to 1%). And it performed as well or better than the benchmarks for
the period January 2022 to 14 March 2022 as Ive explalned above. Ive seen no persuasive
evidence that not having an adviser attached to his plan caused Mr L losses for the period
up to 14 March 2022.
Taking all the above into account and in all the circumstances
I think MPA should have provided Mr L with a set notice period of its resignation as 
his adviser
I dont think the lack of a set notice period caused the financial losses that Mr L has 
claimed
I do think it caused Mr L a degree of distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part.
I intend to order that MPA Financial Management Limited pays Mr L compensation of £250
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter.
I asked Mr L and MPA to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr L said, in summary, that he was disappointed with the suggested compensation of            
£250. He said he thought it was insulting for the undue stress and upset MPAs actions had 
caused him. He asked that I contact the DFM to accurately ascertain his losses. And his 
financial planner to find out why it took several months from the time he authorised her to re-
activate his account. He thought it was fair that his losses be calculated on the time his 
account was frozen. Mr L also said the compensation didnt compensate him for the time 
hed spent on the complaint, never mind his actual financial losses.
MPA said that it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said, in summary, that Mr L 
had had several months to find an adviser following the adjudication and it had tried as hard 
as it could to satisfy Mr Ls claims for delay due to his moving house. My provisional decision 
had stated Mr L had had enough time to find an adviser but had then said MPA should have 
given him an extra month. It didnt agree with this, albeit said that it would respect the 
ultimate decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision 
but having done so Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in that decision. 
My role here is to assess if MPA did anything wrong and, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, whilst I think it should have given some notice, in my opinion Mr L could reasonably 
have had alternative arrangements in place by 14 March 2022. So I dont think its 
responsible for the whole period suggested by Mr L. I accept this would have caused a 
degree of distress and inconvenience to Mr L, but only for the limited period that, in my 
opinion, MPA are responsible for. Im satisfied that the £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Exactly what the DFM would or wouldnt have done during the period MPA was responsible 
for, and then, if it would otherwise have made different decisions during that period, what it 
would have done subsequently to change the make-up of the fund, is a matter of 
speculation. As Ive said, Mr Ls funds performance was comparable or better than a 
number of benchmarks against which losses might be compared against during the period 
up to 14 March 2022. Ive seen no persuasive reason for any need to contact the DFM.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part.
I order that MPA Financial Management Limited pays Mr L compensation of £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman