DRN-4373946
The complaint
Miss C, trading as J, complains about the way that TSB Bank plc handled her business bank 
account.
What happened
Miss C originally held two business bank accounts with TSB before closing one account. 
When Miss C opened the second business bank account in late 2022, she had issues 
logging on and using the account. Miss C also found she wasnt receiving One Time 
Password (OTP) notifications by text, so experienced ongoing issues making online 
payments.
After Miss C raised her concerns with TSB, it managed to resolve the problems logging on to 
the second account and paid £100 compensation. 
Miss C found that she still couldnt make online payments so she complained again to TSB 
in November 2022. After not hearing anything, Miss C chased TSB for a response in early 
2023. TSB told us that as it had already sent a final response in October 2022, when Miss C 
complained again about the same issue, it didnt respond. 
TSB sent Miss C a final response in February 2023 apologising for the upset caused and 
awarding £50 compensation. TSB said it couldnt see any errors on its side which would 
have caused the problems not receiving the OTP notifications. But TSB said Miss C could 
contact the digital team for further help if needed. 
When our investigator first considered Miss Cs complaint she thought TSB had already paid 
and offered to do enough to put things right.
After Miss C provided further information, our investigator reconsidered her view and 
recommended that TSB pay a further £150 compensation. This was on the basis that TSB 
missed an opportunity to update Miss Cs mobile number when she complained again in 
November 2022. So, it took another complaint to TSB in early 2023, for Miss Cs incorrect 
mobile number to be updated. 
Our investigator noted that TSB had agreed to consider any expenses that Miss C had 
incurred due to the problems if she submits evidence of these. 
TSB has provided a copy of a recording with Miss C from October 2022 and says that its 
decision about the complaint remains the same. As TSB doesnt agree with the investigators 
recommendation, the complaint has come to me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I think its agreed that TSB has made some mistakes with Miss Cs second business account 
so my decision focusses less on what has gone wrong and more on whether TSB should do 
more than it already has to put things right.
Although I can see that TSB has already paid a total of £150 compensation, I agree with the 
investigator that this doesnt adequately reflect the impact the mistakes have had on Miss C. 
This is because the problems that Miss C has had with the online payments isnt the only 
difficulty that she faced. When Miss C opened the second account, TSB told her that it 
should have been linked to the first business account she held. And that this created issues 
when trying to log on and use the second account. For this, TSB paid Miss C £100 which 
might have been fair had TSB fixed the problem with receiving OTP texts to make online 
payments. 
However, from listening to the call that Miss C had with TSB in February 2023  the mobile 
telephone number it had for her was wrong. I know that TSB doesnt think that it was 
responsible for the wrong number but I cant be sure that this was the case. Particularly 
given the fact that in October 2022, TSB had to delete the log in details for the second 
business account as a workaround for the problems Miss C had encountered trying to log on 
and use the new account. 
As the fix in October 2022 didnt resolve the OTP text issue  Miss C complained again in 
November 2022. But as TSB thought that this was the same complaint for which it had 
already sent a final response in October 2022, TSB didnt respond. It seems to me that by 
taking this approach, TSB missed the opportunity to sort the OTP problem out sooner by 
updating Miss Cs mobile number  as it did in February 2023. I think that this resulted in 
unnecessary inconvenience and upset when Miss C had to complain again. 
For the inconvenience and added stress, I agree with the investigator that an award of £150 
on top of the £150 already paid is fair. This takes the total amount of compensation to £300 
which sits at the top end of the kind of award the Financial Ombudsman Service might make 
where the mistake has required a reasonable effort to resolve and where the impact has 
been felt over weeks. Our approach to awards like this can be found on our website.
TSB has said that it will consider any additional expenses which Miss C incurred because of 
the issues she faced with the account. If Miss C encounters problems with TSB after 
submitting evidence of any additional expenses, I dont see why she couldnt make a further 
complaint. If she was then unhappy with TSBs response, Miss C could come back to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for further assistance. Hopefully this wont be necessary. 
Finally, when our investigator contacted Miss C in March 2023, Miss C said shed not 
received any OTP text codes to make online payments but that she could only test this again 
when she had to make another payment. If Miss C discovers that she still doesnt receive the 
OTP text codes when attempting another online transaction  she would first have to raise 
her concerns with TSB. Putting things right
To put things right, TSB should pay Miss C £150. For the avoidance of doubt, this in addition 
to the £150 it has already paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to put things right in 
line with above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C trading as 
J to accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman