DRN-3253466
The complaint
Mr M has complained that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED were showing a 
default that should have fallen off his credit file.
What happened
Mr M went through an insolvency that started in 2015. As part of that, he had a credit card 
default. The default should have fallen off his credit file in April 2021, but Mr Ms credit card 
company had recorded it incorrectly, so it was due to stay on until April 2022 in error.
Mr M reported this to TransUnion via a credit file checking website. In August 2021, 
TransUnion told the website the account was no longer present. But it continued to show on 
Mr Ms file. Mr M had to raise the issue again. TransUnion disputed things with the credit 
card company on his behalf, and got the entry removed in October 2021.
Mr M says that in the meantime, he was prevented from buying an investment property as 
he reckoned his mortgage application would be rejected, so hed pulled out. He wants 
compensation for the loss of profits he estimates to be around £80,000.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained the credit card company 
were responsible for the wrong entry and any resulting losses, and that in any case the 
losses Mr M had set out were too speculative. They did find that TransUnion were 
responsible for a relatively short delay in getting things sorted out, and awarded £100 
compensation for that.
Both sides didnt agree. TransUnion felt it was unfair for them to pay compensation when the 
wrong entry was the credit card companys fault. Mr M felt TransUnion were responsible for 
him being unable to buy the property.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TransUnion were not responsible for the incorrect default entry. They do not own the data on 
Mr Ms credit file  it is the lenders providing the data who own it. So in this case, it is Mr Ms 
credit card company who owned the default entry, it is the credit card company who reported 
the entry incorrectly, and so it is the credit card company and who bear the primary 
responsibility for that issue.
With that in mind, it would not be reasonable for me to hold TransUnion responsible for any 
problems Mr M had in getting a mortgage due to the credit card companys error. Mr Ms 
complaint would be better directed to the credit card company there.
With that said, even if I did think TransUnion were responsible for Mr Ms potential losses, 
I agree with our investigator that the losses hes set out are far too speculative. For example, 
I note that Mr M never actually applied for the mortgage or got declined  he simply thought 
he might get declined, and didnt go ahead. But I can see that his decision in principle was 
already based on searches of his TransUnion data, so the mortgage provider shouldve 
already seen the default before it made that decision. Indeed, this was a satisfied default for 
an amount that was not especially large, from over half a decade ago. So there was every 
chance the mortgage would have still gone ahead on those terms regardless of the default.
Or to look at things another way, a decision in principle is not a mortgage offer or guarantee. 
So even if the default had not been there anymore, the provider may well have changed their 
mind and decided not to lend on those terms regardless.
The point is, Ive got nothing to substantiate that the default was a significant factor here. 
And of course, theres no guarantee that the purchase wouldve gone through, or that the 
redevelopment wouldve gone to plan, or that the estimated costs would substantially reflect 
the actual costs, or that the subsequent sale would go through or at a particular price  and 
so on.
In order to award the compensation Mr M is looking for, Id have to be able to say that, but 
for the default, he wouldve made around £80,000 profit. But theres nothing to substantiate 
that the default was even a key factor here at all, and there were plenty of other things that 
could have gone wrong and prevented his plan or affected his profits. So even if TransUnion 
were responsible for the incorrect entry on Mr Ms credit file, I could not fairly award such 
compensation here  its far too speculative.
Of course, as I said before, TransUnion were not responsible for the incorrect entry. That 
was the fault of the credit card provider who made the entry. So TransUnion are not fairly 
responsible for what happened with the mortgage in any case.
What TransUnion are responsible for is a delay in resolving things. In the August, they told 
the file checking website that the incorrect entry had been removed when it had not. This 
caused a delay in getting Mr Ms credit file fixed. This, in turn, caused Mr M some trouble 
and upset as he was trying to sort things out.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation for non-
financial losses such as stress and inconvenience  to acknowledge their error and the 
impact it had. So while the credit card provider may have been responsible for the error on 
Mr Ms credit file, its fair for TransUnion to pay some compensation for the trouble and upset 
they caused in delaying things.
In terms of the amount of compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve 
complaints informally, not to punish businesses or issue fines. And we have guidelines about 
what levels of compensation to award. Taking everything into account, including the 
relatively modest length of the delay, I agree with our investigator that £100 is fair to 
compensate Mr M for the delay TransUnion caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, and direct TRANSUNION 
INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to pay him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman