DRN-2834430
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back 
Loan from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Ws director, Mr W, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. He is represented by his 
son, but for ease Ill attribute his actions and comments to Mr W throughout.
What happened
W banked with Barclays and wanted to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. Mr W 
attempted to apply online on 11 May 2020, but was unable to submit Ws application. When 
attempting to do so, a message advised him that he needed to speak to the bank. 
Mr W attempted to contact Barclays over the weeks that followed. Unable to speak to 
anyone over the phone, he sent the bank a message through its online messaging facility on 
20 May 2020 asking for a call back. It later explained that it needed some further information 
from Mr W before it could proceed with the loan application, which would have to be done 
over the phone.
While awaiting a call back, Mr W wrote to his local branch to chase things up. Barclays 
called him on 22 June and arranged a video call to obtain the further information it needed. 
This was to update its records so that they aligned with information about W held with 
Companies House. The call took place over 26 and 27 June. 
Barclays then updated its records and confirmed on 3 July that Ws application could 
proceed. Mr W duly submitted an application online, which was approved and the loan was 
drawn down on 6 July. 
Mr W complained about how Barclays had handled Ts application. The bank apologised for 
the delay, but said that this was due to the need for further information  which it needed in 
order to carry out the checks expected of it before lending. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so he referred the complaint to us. Barclays subsequently offered 
W compensation of £200 for the inconvenience it had experienced in submitting its 
application. The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators, who agreed that 
Barclays had caused an unreasonable delay but thought £200 was fair compensation for the 
inconvenience to W. As Mr W didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders were required to undertake certain checks before approving an application for a 
Bounce Back Loan, including Know Your Customer, anti-money laundering and anti-fraud 
checks. I think it was reasonable for Barclays, in fulfilling these, to ensure that the 
information it held about W was accurate.
It was, therefore, always going to take a little more time for W to complete its Bounce Back 
Loan application, while this was attended to. And once the bank was in touch with Mr W to 
obtain the information it needed, the changes and checks were all completed within a 
reasonable time. 
But, as the bank has since accepted, it still took much longer to get to this point than it 
should have done. Mr W first attempted to apply on 11 May and was in touch with Barclays 
shortly thereafter to address the issue that was preventing him from completing the 
application online. He messaged the bank on 20 May asking for a call, but didnt receive one 
until 22 June.
I appreciate that at the time of Ws application, Barclays was dealing with the significant 
impact of the pandemic as well as the unprecedented level of demand for borrowing under 
the government-backed loan schemes. But W was entitled to expect its application to be 
assessed quickly as envisaged under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, and I think the delay 
of just over a month to get things moving was excessive. While waiting, Mr W contacted the 
bank on a number of occasions to chase things up, including writing to his local branch, 
sending online messages and attempting to reach someone by phone.
Taking all of this into account, I think it would be fair for Barclays to compensate W for the 
inconvenience it was caused by delays on the banks part. To that end, I think the £200 that 
Barclays has now offered is fair compensation. 
I know Mr W doesnt think that £200 is sufficient, and thinks that this should be increased to 
£1,000. But hes not provided us with details of any financial losses that W incurred as a 
result of the delay. And while I dont doubt that the matter caused some stress and worry to 
him personally, as the complaint is brought by W that isnt something I can compensate him 
for. So all I can fairly require Barclays to compensate W for is the inconvenience it was 
caused, for which I think £200 is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay W compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman