DRN-1758022
 
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has only processed a partial refund on a 
chargeback.
 What happened
Mrs M had arranged to hire a motorhome in December 2019. She had paid for this in 
advance using a credit card to pay the deposit and the remaining balance on her Santander 
debit card. However, when she went to collect the vehicle, she found it was damaged, dirty 
and not fit for use. Mrs M asked for another vehicle but was told there were no 
others available, and she says she felt pressured into taking it.  Mrs M brought the vehicle 
back three days early as she didn't want to use it and it wasn't fit for purpose. 
Mrs M asked Santander to do a chargeback claim on the payments she had made on her 
debit card totalling £876.00.
Santander considered the evidence provided by Mrs M, but it only felt it could defend a 
partial refund against the rules of the card scheme provider. This was successful and Mrs M 
received £262.80. 
Mrs M is unhappy that she hasn't received the full payment she made on the debit card so 
brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She empathised with the situation Mrs M found 
herself in. But she didn't think Santander had made any error with how it had processed the 
chargeback and it had followed the card scheme provider's rules. 
Mrs M felt she had done everything she could've done on the day that she picked up the 
motorhome and wanted the complaint looked at again. So, the case has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, 
for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I think it might be useful to set out a brief summary of how the chargeback scheme works at 
the outset. Chargeback is a way of settling disputes when theres an issue over a card 
payment. The process is operated by the card scheme provider. And it allows the customer 
to ask for a transaction to be reversed in certain situations  for example, if there's a problem 
with goods or services that were paid for but turn out to be faulty or not as described.
I think its important to note that theres no automatic right to a chargeback and no guarantee 
it will lead to a refund. Having said that, we would generally expect a bank to attempt a 
chargeback  if it looks like it would have a reasonable chance of success.I can see Santander did accept to take on Mrs M's chargeback request and it was raised 
under dispute condition 13.3: Not as described or defective merchandise/service. However, 
there are rules set by the card scheme provider under each dispute condition that has to be 
met before a claim can succeed. Santander has said it considered all the evidence Mrs M 
provided and based on this it felt it could only defend a partial refund for the unused portion 
of the cancelled service.
Mrs M doesn't agree and thinks it should have been a full refund. Mrs M has said that she 
felt pressured to sign for the vehicle. But unfortunately, this isn't something that has 
been evidenced and is incredibly difficult to prove. And therefore, Santander has to go on 
what it has, and this includes Mrs M signing for the vehicle and agreeing the vehicle was in 
an acceptable condition. I understand Mrs M has told our investigator that she felt she did 
everything she could on the day of picking up the vehicle and although I can empathise with 
the position Mrs M found herself in, she did ultimately choose to take the vehicle and make 
use of it. So, Santander had only one option available under the card scheme rules and that 
was a partial refund for the unused days.
Santander has to adhere the card scheme rules and based on the evidence I've 
seen Santander has handled the claim as I expect it to. So, I won't be asking it to do 
anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman