DRN-3861583
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money failed to update 
her address which resulted in her receiving late payment fees and adverse information being 
recorded on her credit file.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
On 17 August 2021 Miss M called Virgin Money to complete a money transfer. She 
has explained that she also wished to set up a direct debit and was under the 
impression this had been done successfully. Virgin Money said that Miss M 
terminated the call, as such no Direct Debit was set up. I have reviewed the evidence 
provided and it appears the call was terminated prior to Miss M providing her details. 
As such no direct debit was set up.
I have also reviewed the terms and conditions of the account and they say:
Each month there is a payment into or out of your account or there is a payment due on 
your account, we will let you know that there is a free statement which you can view and 
download in the app. If you have also requested a free paper statement we will post it to 
you.
Prior to completing the money transfer Miss M would have needed to ensure she had 
read the terms and conditions of the account. As such, I am satisfied she would have 
been aware that each month there was a payment due on the account and that she 
ought to be receiving paper statements (if she selected to do so).
With that in mind, I think it is unreasonable to suggest, that due to her not receiving 
the paper statements, she would have been unaware that the direct debit hadnt 
been set up on her account. And as such, she was unaware she had missed 
payments. I say this because, Miss M ought to have realised she hadnt received 
paper statements (if she had requested a free paper statement) and she also had the 
option to check her statements on the app. She would have also seen that direct 
debits were not being taken from her bank account to Virgin Money.  
The terms and conditions of the account also say that Miss M must notify Virgin 
Money if she doesnt receive a statement or she is unable to access her statements. I 
appreciate that Miss M did contact Virgin Money on 13 November 2021, but as she 
failed to pass security, her address was not updated. Miss M did not successfully 
update her address until 22 February 2022. As no payments were made during this 
time, late payment fees and interest were applied to the account, in line with the 
Terms and Conditions. Therefore, I cant say Virgin Money acted unfairly in doing so 
and I wont be asking them to refund any further charges or interest.
As late payment fees were applied to the account correctly, Virgin Money have a duty 
to record accurate information to credit reference agencies. As such, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further in relation to the data it has provided to those credit 
reference agencies.
Virgin Money has acknowledged that there were areas of the service it provided 
which had fallen below its service standards. It accepted its call waiting times were 
longer than it would have liked them to be and that Miss M received contradictory 
information about whether the promotional rate would be reinstated (the terms of the 
account say that the promotional rate will be removed if the minimum payment is not 
received). Because of this, it agreed to refund interest applied to the account 
between February 2022 and November 2022, reinstated the promotional offer and 
offered £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Our investigator felt a higher amount of compensation was warranted due to the 
issues Miss M had trying to raise a complaint and the time taken for Virgin Money to 
investigate the complaint. He recommended a total amount of £150 should be paid to 
Miss M. Virgin Money agreed but Miss M remained unhappy and wanted all interest 
and charges refunded dating back to 17 August 2021.
Having listened to the calls and considered how long it took for the issue to be 
resolved I do agree that Virgin Money made some errors with the service it provided. 
However, I feel that £150 recognises the distress and inconvenience Miss M 
experienced. I am also pleased to see that Virgin Money reinstated the promotional 
offer (which it didnt need to do as the terms of the agreement had been broken) and 
refunded interest. So overall, I am satisfied Virgin Money doesnt need to do anything 
further
Putting things right
So, with the above in mind, I agree that Virgin Money should pay Miss M a total of £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused. However, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay Miss M a total of £150 for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jade RoweOmbudsman