DRN-4008477
The complaint
Mr M complained that he was advised by an Appointed Representative of Lincoln (for which 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Ltd. (SLoC) now has regulatory 
responsibility) to take out two Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
pension plans and shouldve been advised to take out in-house Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (AVC) plans instead. He believes he has lost out financially and would like to be 
compensated.
What happened
Mr M Met with an Appointed Representative of Lincoln in September 1995. The file recorded 
that he was aged 28, single and working for a bank, which he had joined around age 17. His 
risk profile was recorded as 4/5 and he wanted to retire early so would need to make 
additional pension savings to allow him to do so. The adviser recorded that Mr M was aware 
that his employers offer an in-house AVC scheme, but prefers the FSAVC. Mr M accepted 
the recommendation to set up a new Lincoln FSAVC.
Later, in November 1997, Mr M spoke with another Lincoln representative. This time it was 
recorded that he wanted to retire on full benefits at age 55. The reasons why letter said 
Having been referred to your employer you are aware of the availability of in-house AVCs & 
their preferential costs, but value the choice, portability & flexibility of a free-standing 
arrangement. Other generic differences discussed & understood. He was advised to take 
out another FSAVC plan, and again accepted the recommendation.
In October 2021 Mr M complained, through his representative, that both FSAVCs were mis-
sold. They said, among other things, that alternatives had not been considered and Mr M 
had not been referred to his company scheme for full details of their options so that he could 
make an informed choice.
SLoC partially upheld the complaint. They said that the adviser hadnt done enough to meet 
the requirements in place at the time of the 1995 advice. But that in 1997 Mr M had been 
referred to his company scheme, generic differences had been discussed and understood 
and the preferential costs of the in-house AVC had been highlighted. So in 1997, Mr M was, 
or ought to have been, aware of the advantages of the AVC route and chose the FSAVC. So 
SLoC limited the compensation on offer to the difference in costs between the FSAVC and 
the AVC from the start of the 1995 plan to the time of the second piece of advice.
Mr M (via his representatives) did not accept that response. They said that both sales were 
unsuitable and, if the 1995 advice had been done correctly, there would have been no 
meeting in 1997. So capping the compensation at the time of the 1997 advice was not 
justified.
The case was referred to this service and after gathering information our investigators 
opinion was that SLoCs offer was fair. Our investigator agreed that the adviser had met the 
requirements in force at the time for the 1997 recommendation, so it was reasonable to cap 
the compensation at that date, when he was fully informed.
Mr M and his representatives did not agree so the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the events in this complaint date from many years ago, and might normally be time 
barred for that reason, in this case SLoC have given their consent for the complaint to be 
considered despite the time that has elapsed. So this is a complaint that I can consider.
Mr M was advised by tied advisers who could only advise on Lincoln products. They were 
not required to carry out a detailed comparison of the in-house options and FSAVC, nor 
could they advise Mr M to take out anything but Lincoln products. For FSAVC advice tied 
advisers had to:
Draw the customers attention to the in-house alternatives
Discuss generic differences
Direct the customer to their employer or the pension scheme for more information
The most important generic difference was that the AVC was likely to cost less (and 
therefore produce higher net returns) than an FSAVC due to economies of scale and 
potential employer subsidy. 
SLoC have provided the files from both pieces of advice, including the profile/fact find and 
contemporaneous notes/ reasons why.  
I dont think the requirements were met for the 1995 advice. Although the file does refer to 
the in-house option, the note that served as the reasons why letter at that time, said only that 
Mr M was aware that his employers offer an in-house scheme but prefers the FSAVC. 
This does not meet the requirements because it does not make it clear that the charges on 
the FSAVC are likely to be higher; there is no evidence of any discussion of the generic 
differences; nor was Mr M directed to contact his employer or the pension scheme to find out 
more. I dont need to labour the point  both parties agree that the 1995 sale fell short of 
what was expected.
As a result I dont think Mr M was able to make an informed decision about whether the 
FSAVC or the AVC was right for him in 1995.
But the documentation from the 1997 advice goes further. It says Having been referred to 
your employer you are aware of the availability of in-house AVCs & their preferential costs, 
but value the choice, portability & flexibility of a free-standing arrangement. Other generic 
differences discussed & understood. In the unlikely event of working to 60 with [Mr Ms 
employer] there would be overfunding & you are aware that any excess would be returned 
less tax.
So, this time, Mr M was directed to his employer/scheme to find out more; he was told that 
the AVC had preferential costs; and there is evidence that the other generic differences were 
discussed and understood. So I think that, in 1997, the adviser met the requirements and Mr 
M was able to make an informed decision. 
The note also showed that, because of Mr Ms potential length of service, it was possible 
that he would overfund his pension. I think that this shows that added years was considered 
but discounted.Mr Ms representatives say that he should have been advised to take the in-house AVC or to 
buy added years. But Mr Ms advisers were tied and could only recommend the Lincoln 
products. 
Once the adviser had referred him to his scheme/employer it was his decision whether to 
explore this or not. 
So I am satisfied the 1997 adviser met the requirements by providing Mr M with the 
information needed to make an informed choice and he chose to continue with the FSAVC. 
Mr Ms representative takes the view that, had the 1995 advice been done correctly then Mr 
M would have taken out the in-house AVC. This also meant that the 1997 advice would not 
have taken place, they said, because Mr M would not have had a relationship with the 
business.  
But when Mr M was told about the preferential costs of the AVC in 1997 and was referred to 
the scheme for more information he chose to take out the FSAVC. From the information on 
both files there doesnt seem to be any material difference to Mr Ms personal or financial 
circumstances between 1995 and 1997, so I cant see any compelling reason why he would 
not have made the same choice in 1995 as he did in 1997. And in any case, Mr M didnt 
have a relationship with Lincoln in 1995 when he approached them for advice the first time. 
So I dont agree with his representatives analysis on this point. 
I think that Mr M may well have chosen the FSAVC in 1995 if he had been given the right 
information by his adviser. But because he was not given that information, I think it is fair for 
SLoC to honour its offer in relation to that sale.
But I also agree with SLoC that, by 1997, Mr M had been given the correct information. He 
had been signposted to his employer as the regulations required, and he had been told 
about the preferential costs. At this time he would have become aware that there was a 
lower cost option available, and if he had been in any doubt he could have raised it at the 
time. Since Mr M did not do so, I think that it is fair for SLoC to cap the calculation of 
compensation at the date of the 1997 advice. 
Therefore I find that, although the 1995 advice was not compliant, SLoC have acted fairly in 
how they have handled Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things right
Im satisfied with SLoCs approach to performing a loss assessment for the first FSAVC
plan for the period up to 20 November 1997, when Mr M ought reasonably to have been 
aware of what he needed to know about the in-house options. 
SLoC have said that the compensation is to be calculated on a Charges basis and I think 
that this is fair because, as explained above, the added years option was unlikely to be 
appropriate. So a comparison with the charges of the in-house AVC is fair. If SLoC has 
already done its loss assessment and paid any compensation due to Mr M, there is nothing 
further for it to do. Otherwise, SLoC must undertake a redress calculation in accordance with 
the regulators FSAVC review guidance in relation to the first policy for the period up to 20 
November 1997.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Ltd must put things right for Mr M by following the steps above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman