DRN-3993092
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Canada Life Limited has declined a claim he made on a critical illness 
policy.
What happened
Mr M is a member of his employers group critical illness policy. He joined the scheme in 
early June 2021. In November 2021 Mr M received a diagnosis of Lymphoma. 
He claimed on the policy, but the claim was rejected. Canada Life said the exclusion for pre-
existing medical conditions applied. Mr M appealed but Canada Life maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
Canada Life had fairly declined the claim based on the policy terms and the medical 
evidence. Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Canada Life has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I dont think Canada Life acted unreasonably when they declined the claim because: 
The policy terms say there is no cover for pre-existing conditions which existed 
before Mr M joined the scheme. That includes conditions where the insured person 
had symptoms, had received advice or treatment, even if there was no formal 
diagnosis. 
Mr M started having appointments about chest and stomach symptoms in March 
2021. That was before he was covered under the policy. Thats also the date that Mr 
Ms GP first recorded he was consulted by Mr M about this issue and that symptoms 
had been present for a few weeks. Thats also consistent with the information Mr M 
gave Canada Life when he claimed on the policy. Mr M joined the scheme in early 
June 2021, so I think its reasonable to conclude the relevant definition set out in the 
policy was met.
Mr M received his diagnosis for Lymphoma in November 2021, following 
investigations and tests. I dont think it was unreasonable for Canada Life to conclude 
that there was a link between the symptoms in June 2021 and the diagnosis in 
November 2021 bearing in mind the available medical evidence.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments that he wasnt presenting with classic 
symptoms of Lymphoma. Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about the 
timeline of events. But, ultimately, it was the investigations into Mr Ms stomach and 
chest problems which gave rise to the diagnosis of Lymphoma. And I think it was 
reasonable to conclude the symptoms were linked to the eventual diagnosis. Thats 
consistent with the medical evidence and I dont think Canada Life have acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman