DRN-2374673
The complaint
Mr M complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) cancelled his policy 
and charged a cancellation fee. 
The policy was administered by a third-party business but, for ease, Ill refer to all actions 
and comments as those of Skyfire. 
What happened
Mr M first took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire in February 2017, using an online 
comparison website. He then renewed the policy in 2018, 2019 and 2020. 
Skyfire contacted Mr M on 28 January 2020 and asked him to provide a copy of the front and 
back of his photocard driving licence and his unique check code from the DVLA. Skyfire said 
this was because Mr M had generated multiple quotes online, with different information 
about motoring convictions, and so it wanted to be certain the information it had about Mr M 
was accurate. Skyfire told Mr M the policy would be cancelled if the documents werent 
received by 18 February 2020 and that an administration fee of £75 would be charged. 
Mr M provided Skyfire with the requested documents on 5 February 2020.
 
Skyfire reviewed the documents and said Mr Ms driving licence showed he was not born in 
the UK, while information it held in relation to his car insurance policy said he had lived in the 
UK since birth. As a result, Skyfire asked Mr M to provide it with confirmation and proof of 
when he began living in the UK. It asked for this by 18 February 2020 or the policy would be 
cancelled.
Mr M contacted Skyfire and confirmed the information on his driving licence was correct and 
he had not lived in the UK since birth. He told Skyfire he moved to the UK in 1999, when he 
was a child. He also said he was certain he didnt enter the wrong information when he set 
up the policy. 
Skyfire issued a cancellation notice to Mr M because it said it hadnt received all of the 
documents it requested in order to validate Mr Ms policy. It said Mr Ms policy would end on 
18 February 2020. 
Skyfire contacted Mr M on 17 February 2020 and said the date of his UK residency was not 
sufficient and it required proof of residency. It said the additional documents provided by Mr 
M  his passport and a tax notice for a UK flight  were not enough to confirm residency. It 
said proof was needed of the day he started living in the UK. Skyfire said it provided a list of 
acceptable documents that could be provided as long as they were dated from 2014 or 
earlier. It then extended the policy cancellation deadline to 3 March 2020. 
 
And after sending a further notice of cancellation, Skyfire then cancelled the policy on 9 
March 2020, with effect from 4 March 2020. Mr M complained to Skyfire.
Skyfire responded to Mr Ms complaint on 26 March 2020. It said all of the information it held 
on Mr M was information entered by him when he applied for the policy using the 
comparison website. It said it provided Mr M with a list of documents it would accept to prove 
residency and also advised that other documents might have been accepted. It said it 
appreciated, given his age, that Mr M had nothing from around that time to confirm the move 
to the UK. So it said it told him it would accept anything from the list of documents dated 
2014 or earlier. Skyfire said the policy was cancelled because it hadnt received the 
requested documents. It said it refunded £307.13 and this took into account a £75 
cancellation fee which it kept. It said the policy documents outline all of its fees. 
Mr M was unhappy with the response from Skyfire and so complained to this service. He 
said the £75 cancellation fee was charged in spite of the cancellation being done at Skyfires 
behest. He said being asked for documents he was unable to provide has caused 
aggravation and stress. He asked for the cancellation fee to be refunded. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said it was reasonable for Skyfire to 
request more information from Mr M and to cancel the policy when he failed to provide this. 
He said the documents requested should have been relatively easy to get hold of. He also 
said Skyfire had extended the cancellation deadline to give Mr M an opportunity to provide 
the documents. Our investigator said the cancellation fee was fairly applied. 
Mr M didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted both Skyfire and Mr M to let them know I intended to come to a different 
conclusion to that of our investigator and uphold Mr Ms complaint. This was because I 
thought it was unreasonable for Skyfire to ask Mr M to prove when he started living in the 
UK, when the relevant policy term only required him to have lived in the UK for three years 
prior to the date he first took out a Skyfire policy. So I thought Skyfire should have asked him 
whether or not he could prove hed lived in the UK since at least early February 2014.
 
Skyfire didnt agree. It said it acknowledged in later correspondence with Mr M that he could 
provide documents from 2014 or earlier, as it understood that providing information from 
when Mr M was a child might be difficult. Skyfire also said it cancelled the policy because of 
the failure to provide the documents requested and not because of any failure on Mr Ms part 
to meet the residency term of the policy. 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. I asked Mr M to provide documentation from the 
beginning of 2014 in order to prove he was a UK resident at that time. Mr M provided that 
information.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
Ive first of all looked at whether it was reasonable for Skyfire to request copies of Mr Ms 
driving licence and check code details. And Im satisfied it was. Skyfire became aware that 
Mr M had requested multiple quotes online, and these quotes contained different 
information, provided by Mr M, about motoring convictions. So I think it was reasonable for 
Skyfire to want to double check whether the information it had about Mr M was correct. Im 
also satisfied the documents it requested from Mr M would have allowed Skyfire to confirm 
Mr Ms details on its systems were correct. So, at this stage, Skyfire made a reasonable 
request and the documents asked for were necessary.   Mr M sent a copy of his driving licence and the check code to Skyfire as requested. His 
driving licence showed he was born outside the UK and this was different to the information 
Skyfire had on its system. Skyfire said Mr M told it at the application stage that he was born 
in the UK. Skyfire contacted Mr M and he told it the information on his driving licence was 
correct, and he moved to the UK when he was a child. Mr M wasnt able to account for why 
the information provided at the application stage was incorrect, as he felt certain he had 
entered it correctly. 
I can see that Skyfires policy terms indicate that in order for a driver to be eligible to take out 
a policy with it, the driver must have resided in the UK for at least three years prior to taking 
out a policy. So Im satisfied that when Mr M confirmed he hadnt been born in the UK, it was 
reasonable for Skyfire to ask him for further information so that it could check whether he 
met the residency requirement in the policy. 
And in order for Mr M to show that he met the residency requirement, he just needed to 
provide information showing hed lived in the UK since the beginning of February 2014, 
which is three years before Mr M took out his first policy with Skyfire. But this wasnt what 
Skyfire asked him to provide. Skyfire asked Mr M to provide proof of the date you began 
living in the UKProof of the date you started living in the UK. But I cant see why it was 
necessary for Skyfire to have evidence of when Mr M started to live in the UK, when the 
policy term it needed to check Mr M met was whether he was resident in the UK in the three 
years prior to the first policy being taken out in 2017.
Skyfire, or any other insurer, cant ask policy holders for unnecessary or irrelevant 
information. And once Mr Ms driving licence showed the correct date he moved to this 
country, all it needed was proof that he met the residency requirement. I cant see that the 
fact that he moved to the UK as a child, or when this happened, makes any difference to 
whether Skyfire would have offered him a policy or the terms it would have offered.
From what I can see, Mr M tried to provide Skyfire with some documents to show when he 
moved to the UK, but these werent in the format requested by Skyfire. And when Mr M 
brought the complaint to this service, he said he didnt know how he was expected to provide 
proof of having been resident in the UK since he was a child. I dont think Skyfire gave Mr M 
an opportunity to provide the information that was actually needed for him to prove he met 
the residency requirement, and this is because it didnt ask for the information that was 
actually needed. 
Skyfires failure to ask for the correct information has placed Mr M at a disadvantage and led 
to his policy being cancelled and a £75 cancellation fee being charged. So Im satisfied 
Skyfire acted unfairly when it cancelled the policy and charged the cancellation fee. 
Its the case that some information was needed from Mr M to show he met the residency 
requirement. With this in mind, I contacted Mr M and asked him to provide information, in the 
format needed by Skyfire, to show that he was a UK resident from at least early 2014. Mr M 
provided this information to me  a bank statement and an MPs letter confirming a former 
address in January 2014. So I think that if Skyfire had asked Mr M for the correct 
information, its highly likely he would have been able to provide it. 
When I contacted Skyfire and told it that I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint, it said that in 
a later email to Mr M, it changed what it asked him to provide and indicated to him that 
documents dated from 2014 or before would be acceptable. However, the full request made 
to Mr M in that particular email was for him to provide  proof of the date you started living 
in the UK. we can accept any documents on this list that are dated from 2014 or earlier. 
So while I can see that he was told documents from 2014 would be acceptable, the information Mr M was asked to provide remained unchanged. He was still asked to prove 
when he started living in the UK. 
In order to put things right, Skyfire need to do the following: 
Refund the £75 cancellation fee to Mr M. 
If the cancellation has been registered on any relevant motor databases, then this 
should be amended so that it doesnt indicate Mr Ms policy was cancelled by an 
insurer. 
Pay an amount of £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I require Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited to carry out the actions listed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman