DRN-1273332
The complaint
Mr J complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001 when he applied for a credit card.
 
What happened
Mr J complained to this Service. He initially said there was no conversation about PPI but 
more recently said he told the representative that he didnt want PPI because his employer 
covered any absence from sickness and also paid him statutory sick pay; he said he bought 
the PPI during a telephone call and then Capital One sent him a form for his signature. He 
didnt know PPI had been added. He didnt require or need it. He said that nothing was 
explained to him about the terms and conditions and he was not assessed properly.
Our adjudicator thought the claim should not be upheld. Mr J disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr J, so Ill explain why.
Mr J says the PPI was sold over the telephone and then he was just sent a form to sign. He 
said no-one explained anything to him at the time of the sale and that he wouldnt have 
agreed to it if it had been explained. Capital One says he applied for the credit card and PPI 
on a postal application form. I have seen Mr J's credit card application form. It wasnt 
specifically addressed to him, but I can see Mr J completed the form with his personal 
details, his salary and his other credit cards. He also said no to another offer but ticked the 
Yes box for PPI. So I think it is reasonable to assume this was a postal sale.
I can also reasonably assume the form was completed by Mr J with his personal details  
which means he did more than just sign the form. I can also see from the form that he signed 
it to say he wanted to be enrolled in the payment protection scheme. So I can reasonably 
assume Mr J completed the form carefully and ticked Yes for PPI - whereas he could have 
ticked "No". So as he had that clear choice, I think PPI was shown to be an optional product. 
So I think its likely Mr J knew he had a choice about taking out PPI and ticked the box 
because he wanted it. 
Capital One said the sale was non-advised - and this is most likely as there was no 
interaction with Capital One for Mr J's postal application. So for non-advised sales, Capital 
One didnt recommend the policy to Mr J, it just gave him information about PPI. But the 
information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
It is likely Mr J would have received some documents with the application form that would 
have given him the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. That 
being said even if Capital One did give all the information Mr J needed to make an 
informed choice, I think he would have still taken the policy because at the time of the sale:
He was eligible for the PPI due to his age, country of residence and employment.
I dont think he would have been caught by any of the main things not covered by 
the policy (the exclusions) which could have made it difficult to make a successful 
claim. So I dont think that more detailed information about the exclusions would 
have put him off from buying PPI.
Mr J said he didnt have any savings, but he told us he would get sick pay from 
his employer. So I think the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition 
to his employee benefits if he made a successful claim. And I think he would have 
seen PPI as a useful benefit.
I dont know how Capital One explained the PPI cost and benefits to Mr J. But theres 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for him in 2001, so I dont think that more 
detailed information would have put him off from buying PPI. So as I think he chose to 
have PPI because he wanted it, I think he bought the policy as it was probably of benefit to 
him.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said - including what he has said about his employee 
benefits. But this doesnt change my decision, so I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. 
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman