DRN-3614359
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that his car dealer declined to cover the cost of repairing damage to his 
Motability Scheme car under warranty. He complains that Motability Operations Limited 
(Motability) should challenge the dealers decision about this.
What happened
Mr S had an agreement with Motability to supply him with a car. 
Unfortunately, the cars armrest got damaged. Mr S contacted the dealer, thinking this would 
be covered under warranty. But the dealer said they wouldnt cover the cost of the repair. 
Mr S was aware that hed be eligible for a good condition bonus from Motability if he 
returned the car in good condition at the end of the lease. He was worried that he wouldnt 
get this bonus unless the armrest was repaired. He contacted Motability to ask about this.
Motability told Mr S that, as a goodwill gesture, theyd make sure the damage to the armrest 
didnt affect his good condition bonus. They said they wouldnt challenge the dealers 
decision, but they confirmed they wouldnt charge Mr S for any repair that needed to be done 
to the armrest. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with this response. He felt Motability should challenge the dealers 
decision not to cover the cost of the repair. He brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Motability had treated Mr S unfairly - she thought theyd gone 
above and beyond what they needed to do. She didnt think there was any need for 
Motability to challenge the dealer about repairing the armrest, because theyd agreed to 
cover this cost themselves. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said it was evident that Motability 
show favouritism towards the dealer network, resulting in unfair treatment to customers. He 
said the terms of the Motability scheme severely hinder consumer rights  and that a 
customer outside the scheme would have better levels of support to dispute and challenge a 
supplying dealer. 
The case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration on being told the damage to the armrest wouldnt be covered 
under warranty. Im not going to comment on the dealers decision, because Mr Ss 
complaint is about Motability.
I can understand Mr Ss concern that the dealers refusal to repair the damage might cause 
problems when he returns the car. Ive reviewed what Motability agreed to do after he 
contacted them about this. 
Motability have confirmed Mr S wont be charged for any repair thats needed to the armrest. 
And theyve said this damage wont affect his eligibility for a good condition bonus. Im 
satisfied this has resolved any potential issues the damaged armrest might otherwise have 
caused when the car is returned.
I can see Mr S feels strongly that Motability should support his dispute with the dealer, by 
challenging their decision about whether the repair would be covered by the warranty. He 
feels this has restricted his consumer rights, resulting in him being treated less favourably 
than a customer outside the scheme. Ive considered this point. 
I appreciate Mr S went to a dealer to get the car. Ive seen a copy of the agreement he 
signed. It explains that Mr S entered into a hire agreement with Motability, who are the 
owners of the car. 
Im not persuaded that this agreement - or any of the terms and conditions set out within it - 
hindered Mr Ss consumer rights in this case. I think the Motability scheme provided him with 
a better level of support than he would have received if hed bought the car direct from the 
dealer. I say this because, when the dealer refused to repair the armrest under the warranty, 
Motability agreed to resolve the problem. 
For these reasons, I dont find Motability to have treated Mr S unfairly. So, I wont be 
directing them to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman