DRN-3798142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) failed to fully assess 
their claim, resulting in avoidable delays.
Mr and Mrs F had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by RSA. Mr F is the named 
policyholder so, for ease, Ill refer to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr F claimed under his policy for extensive damage to his home caused by a leak under the 
floor. RSA accepted the claim, but Mr F wasn't happy about the extent of its investigation 
into the damage. He said there was far more damage evidenced than RSA had identified. 
Initially, RSA made a cash settlement offer, but Mr F didnt think it was enough to cover the 
costs of the full repairs needed. Eventually, RSA accepted that it hadnt fully identified the 
damage that needed repairing and agreed to provide a list of works and timetable. RSA said 
it would cash settle the claim upon receipt of quotes, it apologised for the delays it had 
caused, and paid Mr F £250 by way of apology.
However, RSA didnt provide the list of works, despite chasers from Mr F, so he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
While the complaint was with our service, RSA provided the list of works, as Mr F had 
requested. 
So, the issues our investigator considered were those relating to delays handling the claim, 
and the extended stay in alternative accommodation. He agreed thered been avoidable 
delays caused by RSA failing to fully assess the damage and the repairs needed. When it 
did understand the full extent of work required, RSA failed to send a work list to Mr F until 
some months later. Our investigator upheld the complaint, and in recognition of the 
avoidable delays, he recommended that RSA pay Mr F a total of £400 by way of apology for 
the delays.
Mr F didnt agree. He felt a four-figure payment was more appropriate given that he and Mrs 
F were living in a caravan through winter months, and RSA hadnt sent them the work list 
promptly.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint. But, while I realise Mr F will be disappointed, I wont 
be asking RSA to do any more than our investigator proposed. Ill explain why here.
Schedule of work
RSA has now sent Mr F a schedule of work and agreed a cash settlement. Given that this 
issue is no longer in dispute, I wont comment on it any further. That said, I will take it into 
consideration when thinking about the avoidable delays.
Delays
I note Mr F was unhappy with the number of different contractors that RSA used when 
dealing with his claim. Its common for insurers to use several different contractors during a 
claim. Thats because they will each address the issues relevant to their area of expertise. 
That said, it clearly contributed to the lack of communication Mr F complained about, and the 
resulting delays. 
RSA agreed it hadnt communicated with Mr F as well as it shouldve done. Because of that, 
Mr F experienced delays which could otherwise have been avoided. For example, mould 
growth and water damage that werent initially identified meant drying was needed. That 
couldve begun much sooner, but didnt actually start until four months later.
Theres no dispute that Mr F shouldnt have suffered those delays, so Ive taken them into 
consideration when deciding on the level of compensation. 
Compensation
RSA paid £250 by way of apology. Ive thought about this, the compensation proposed by 
our investigator, and Mr Fs request for at least four figures.
In all, the delays meant Mr Fs claim wasn't dealt with properly until around four months later. 
During that time, and at his request, RSA provided a caravan for Mr and Mrs F to live in 
while their home was uninhabitable. But because of the delays, they were still in the caravan 
during winter. I note that RSA contributed towards the additional heating costs, so the 
inconvenience was the additional time being in the caravan during the colder months.
I cant say that RSA treated Mr F unfairly by providing a caravan rather than another form of 
alternative accommodation. Thats because he specifically requested it. Mr F gave the 
reasons for wanting to stay near his home, which I completely understand. But it doesnt 
change the fact that he did have the option to be in more suitable accommodation. So, the 
delays didnt cause Mr F to be in the caravan, though they did cause him to be in it longer 
than necessary.
The compensation, then, is to address the avoidable delays, but I cant fairly increase the 
compensation because of the circumstances around the caravan in winter because, as I 
said, that was Mr Fs choice. 
Im satisfied that RSA shouldve handled this claim sooner than it did and the failure to do so 
caused delays of around four months. I agree that £250 isnt quite enough to address this, 
but Im satisfied a total of £400 is a fair and reasonable sum. Therefore, Ill be asking RSA to 
increase its payment by £150 bringing the total to £400.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance plc must:
increase its compensation payment to Mr F by £150, bringing the total to £400.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman