DRN-3385029
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly recalled a Bounce Back Loan after initially approving it. P has also 
complained that the bank conducted a credit check as part of the loan application process 
and stopped an attempted payment.
Ps director, Mr D, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
P wanted to apply to NatWest for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. NatWest 
required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. So P applied for one and the bank opened a business current account 
for it. 
P proceeded to apply for a Bounce Back Loan of £48,000. NatWest initially approved the 
application and the funds were drawn down on 18 May 2020. But the bank later reversed its 
decision and recalled the loan. It used the remaining account balance of £40,380 to reduce 
the loan balance on 2 June 2020 and closed Ps account. 
NatWest subsequently recovered a further £7,000 to reduce the outstanding loan balance, 
before sending P a formal demand for the remaining £620 on 3 March 2021.
NatWest says P wasnt eligible for the loan, which it should not have initially approved. This 
is because the companys turnover wasnt at the requisite level. It says its actions in closing 
Ps account and recalling the loan were taken in line with the applicable terms and 
conditions. The bank also says that it didnt conduct a credit check as part of Ps loan 
application, but rather as part of its usual process when opening the bank account.
NatWest has accepted some mistakes were made in how it handled things. Primarily, that 
the Bounce Back Loan was opened in error. It also says it opened a business current 
account for P instead of a feeder account as requested. And it says that while it correctly 
declined Mr Ds request to transfer some of the loan funds from the account before their 
removal, it incorrectly advised him that this payment had not been stopped. The bank has 
offered P compensation of £1,000 for the inconvenience these matters caused it.
Mr D doesnt think NatWest has treated P fairly. He says that the company was eligible for 
the Bounce Back Loan and believes he has provided satisfactory evidence to demonstrate 
that it had the necessary turnover amount. He also thinks that the banks actions were 
influenced by an interaction he had with a member of staff in branch.
Our investigator thought that NatWests decision that P was ineligible for the loan was 
reasonable  and that the actions it had taken in light of that were legitimate in the 
circumstances. But she thought that the bank had caused P further inconvenience after 
offering to review the companys eligibility again  engaging Mr D in further correspondence 
about the matter for nothing, as the decision wasnt going to change. So she recommended 
that NatWest pay P a further £200 compensation. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view and NatWest didnt respond to it. So the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, setting out why I didnt intend to uphold Ps 
complaint. I said:
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover  for which the 2019 calendar years 
turnover was to be used. 
P applied to NatWest for a loan of £48,000, so the company needed to have a 
turnover of £192,000 to be eligible for this. The banks record of Ps application 
shows that Mr D declared a turnover for 2019 of £250,000. So NatWest approved the 
application on this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that they met the 
eligibility criteria.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds 
having been utilised, NatWest was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep 
matters under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I 
dont think it didnt anything wrong in conducting a review of the loan. 
Im sorry to see that Mr D thinks the banks actions were based on the interaction he 
had with a member of the banks staff, during which he feels he was judged on his 
appearance. But I think it was the transactions  and how Mr D was using the loan 
funds  that prompted the banks review. 
Regardless of the reason, the bank was prompted to look at the Bounce Back Loan 
application again  and its legitimate concerns as to Ps eligibility were reasonable 
grounds for it to freeze the loan funds pending further investigation. I dont think 
NatWest did anything wrong in rejecting Mr Ds request to transfer some of the funds. 
The bank has acknowledged its mistake when advising Mr D that it had not blocked 
this transaction  given how events transpired, I dont think this had a material impact 
on things.
NatWest proceeded to review Ps eligibility for the loan, ultimately deciding that the 
company wasnt eligible on the basis that it couldnt verify the turnover figure 
declared in the application. I think the banks decision on this was reasonable. I say 
this because:
P didnt hold any existing accounts with NatWest, so it had no record of any 
business activity.
Mr D didnt provide any statements for an account held by P showing its 
turnover in 2019. He provided statements for one other account that P held 
elsewhere but the statements only date back to September 2020 and dont 
verify the companys trading activity and turnover from 2019, as per the Loan 
Scheme eligibility criteria.
Mr D provided a spreadsheet setting out the funds that he says P received 
through 2019 totalling around £218,000, but hasnt evidenced these payments (by way of a bank statement or corresponding invoices, for 
example).
Mr D provided statements of an account in his own name. While showing 
some activity between P and himself in 2019, they dont demonstrate the 
companys turnover. They simply show payments from one account  
sometimes in the name of P, but often not  to his own. Even if I were to 
accept them as evidence of Ps income, they dont total anything near the 
£250,000 figure declared in the loan application or the £192,000 required for 
P to have been eligible for the loan it requested.
Mr D didnt provide any other documentary evidence to demonstrate the 
turnover figure provided in Ps application for the Bounce Back Loan, when 
something more conclusive  like a tax return  ought reasonably to have 
been available.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, NatWest was entitled to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. 
This included where any of the information provided within the application was found 
to have been misleading, incomplete or incorrect. As the bank had reasonable 
grounds to consider that the turnover figure Mr D provided was incorrect, I think it 
was entitled to terminate the loan. The bank was also entitled to recover the funds 
from Ps account in the manner it did, in accordance with its right of set off under the 
applicable terms and conditions.
I can see that there was some protracted correspondence with Mr D as to Ps 
eligibility, with NatWest inviting him to provide further evidence to demonstrate the 
companys turnover and trading activity. However, I dont think it would be fair to say 
that this was an error on NatWests part. Mr D wanted to appeal the banks decision 
and NatWest gave him the opportunity to do so. So Im not intending to require 
NatWest to pay P any compensation for any inconvenience that it mightve been 
caused by following up on matters with the bank, given that it was the companys 
choice to pursue the matter in this way.
I note Mr D was concerned that NatWest had conducted a credit check on him and/or 
P when it processed the Bounce Back Loan application. Loans provided under this 
scheme werent subject to credit-scoring, and Ive not seen that this was a factor in 
the banks decision. NatWest says that it only carried out a credit search when 
considering the companys application for a new account  which it was entitled to 
do.
NatWest has already accepted that it opened a business current account for P 
instead of the feeder account  an account designed only to facilitate the loan 
drawdown  that it had requested. P only wanted a feeder account to utilise the loan 
 but, for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was entitled to that loan. The type 
of account that P had didnt have any bearing on the subsequent recall of the loan. 
So I dont think this error caused P to lose out in any way. NatWest later closed the 
account, in light of its review. That was a decision it was entitled to make and it 
proceeded to close the account in accordance with the applicable terms and 
conditions.
Taking all of the above into account, Im not currently intending to require NatWest to 
take any further action in response to this complaint. NatWest previously made an offer to pay £1,000 to P to settle the complaint. Mr D 
should contact the bank directly if he wishes to accept this in light of my decision.
I invited both parties to respond with any further information they wanted me to take into 
account. 
NatWest said it accepted my provisional decision but pointed out that Mr D had already been 
in touch to accept the £1,000 compensation, which had since been paid. Mr D didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no further information or evidence for me to take into 
consideration, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. 
I should, though, clarify that as NatWest has already paid the £1,000 compensation that 
there is nothing further it needs to do in response to this complaint. Save for that, this final 
decision simply confirms my provisional findings as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman