DRN-1421034
The complaint
Mr N complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
when he made a claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N holds a Home Care policy with British Gas that provides servicing and breakdown 
cover for his boiler. The boiler was installed by British Gas in 2013 and it had serviced the 
boiler at regular intervals since then. In June 2019 Mr Ns boiler broke down and he called 
British Gas who sent an engineer to investigate. The engineer inspected the boiler and 
repaired it by replacing some parts British Gas later said had broken due to wear and tear. 
Mr N wasnt happy as he said this was the second time the boiler had stopped working and 
he was concerned it would stop again. He also said the engineer had ticked things on the 
customer checklist he hadnt checked.
British Gas said boilers come with a five-year warranty and components might fail after this 
time. It said the parts were replaced due to wear and tear. And it said Mr N didnt need to 
sign the checklist and could have raised his concerns with the engineer during the visit. 
Mr N remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said there was no 
option for him to sign the checklist. He also said his Home Care policy represents poor value 
for money and asked why his annual service hadnt picked up the wear and tear. He said he 
would like a reasonable refund of the payments hes made to British Gas over the years.
Our investigator said she couldnt assess the quality of the boiler and she therefore focused 
on whether British Gas had done anything wrong in relation to its obligations under the 
Home Care policy. She concluded that it hadnt done anything wrong. She also said the 
evidence suggested the engineer had carried out the relevant checks on the checklist and 
although Mr N disputed that, there wasnt enough information to comment further. 
As Mr N remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from his correspondence that Mr N isnt happy with the quality of the boiler installed 
by British Gas in 2013. He says its stopped working on two occasions over the last six 
years, while his previous boiler had lasted 32 years. Hes also questioned the value of the 
Home Care agreement he bought from British Gas. Having discussed these issues with our 
investigator, Mr N clarified that his complaint was solely about the events of June 2019. He 
understood this service couldnt consider the installation of the boiler in 2013 and that any 
concerns he had about the way the Home Care agreement had been sold to him would need 
to be raised as a separate complaint. 
So my role is to look at whether British Gas fulfilled its obligations under the Home Care 
policy when it repaired Mr Ns boiler in June 2019. When Mr Ns boiler stopped working in June 2019, he contacted British Gas who sent an 
engineer to investigate. The only evidence of what happened next is a customer checklist 
completed by the engineer and Mr Ns account of what happened. The checklist notes that 
the engineer replaced two faulty parts and that the appliance safety checks were ok. Hed 
ticked all the boxes on the form to say hed completed all of the relevant safety checks and 
annual service checks.
Mr N says the engineer didnt carry out all the checks he said he did. While I have no reason 
to doubt Mr Ns account of events, the evidence is contradictory and without some further 
evidence of whats happened, I dont think theres enough information for me to reach a firm 
conclusion on this matter. So I cant comment on this aspect of his complaint any further.
With regard to the Home Care agreement, Mr N has Boiler and Controls cover as well as 
Plumbing and Drains cover. The policy document explains that the insurance policy covers 
parts and labour and an unlimited number of repairs. The Boiler and Controls section of the 
policy says it covers all repairs to the boiler. It also says it covers the following:
       A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
Its less that seven years old
Or, its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by British Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare agreement
Or, it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your annual 
service within every period of agreement since we first covered you.  
 
In June 2019 the engineer identified why the boiler had stopped, replaced the relevant parts 
and got the boiler working again. British Gas therefore met their obligations under the Home 
Care agreement, which was to repair the boiler in the event of a breakdown. I think British 
Gas therefore did as it was supposed to do under the terms of the policy.
While Mr N might have lost faith in his boiler, I think it would have been unreasonable to 
have expected British Gas to replace the boiler under the Home Care agreement. His policy 
only covers a replacement if British Gas cant repair the boiler. As the engineer did repair the 
boiler in June 2019, this part of the policy wasnt relevant on this occasion. 
I recognise that Mr N isnt happy the boiler has broken down twice before and is worried it 
might do so again. But his insurance should provide him with peace of mind that if a problem 
does arise it will be repaired by British Gas within a reasonable timescale. I note that theres 
no limit on the number of repairs needed.
So, in summary, I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest British Gas are at fault in 
these circumstances and I dont think it needs to do anything more.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman