DRN-3959890
Complaint
Ms D has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable and therefore should never have been provided to her.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Ms D with a loan for £10,000.00 in May 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 43.8% and a term of 48 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£19,499.04, including interest, fees and charges of £9,499.04, was due to be repaid in 48 
monthly instalments of just over £400. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ds complaint and he thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Ms D with her loan. So he thought that Ms Ds complaint should be 
upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ds complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Ms D such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Ms D could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
and obtained bank statements before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that 
Ms D was already significantly indebted and that a significant proportion of her monthly 
income was already going towards repayments to credit. And even then Ms D was over her 
credit limit on some of her revolving credit accounts.
Furthermore while Ms Ds monthly income was relatively high, its clear from the transactions 
on her bank account (which Everyday Loans will have seen) that her expenditure exceeded 
her income by some way. So its unclear to me how Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
been satisfied that the monthly disposable income figure that it arrived at for Ms D was 
accurate.
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Ms D has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Ms Ds indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Ms Ds version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Ds existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Ms Ds 
circumstances would more like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have 
provided this loan to her. As Everyday Loans provided Ms D with this loan, notwithstanding 
this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms D ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms D lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms D
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms D by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms D paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms D to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Ds credit file, if it remains, as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman