DRN-2824770
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat her fairly after she 
fell victim to a scam.
  
What happened
In 2019, Mrs Z fell victim to a cruel scam, in which she was tricked into believing she needed 
to move her money to a safe account to ensure it wasnt stolen. As a result of this, Mrs Z 
transferred a payment of £900 out of her Halifax current account. This sum cleared the credit 
balance of her account and took her into overdraft. The sum actually exceeded Mrs Zs 
original overdraft limit which was increased during the course of the scam.
 
Mrs Z reported the scam to Halifax later that day - on 2 December. Halifax is a signatory of 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances.
On 6 December, Halifax refunded a portion of the resulting overdraft balance. But it didnt 
accept it was liable for most of the £900 payment. This left Mrs Z out of pocket by the initial 
credit balance shed held on her account prior to the scam plus the amount remaining on her 
overdraft balance. Mrs Z didnt think this was fair and complained.
On 9 January, Halifax contacted Mrs Z to say it had reviewed the original outcome it had 
reached and was now willing to refund her in full. It offered to pay her the balance of the 
money shed lost, plus interest and overdraft charges, and the sum of £100 to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience shed had.
Mrs Z didnt think £100 was a fair reflection of what shed been through. In particular, she 
said:
- she was unhappy with how Halifax had handled matters when shed claimed and 
subsequently, having made several calls - including some lasting over an hour;
- she was unhappy with how shed been treated by Halifaxs staff when shed called in, 
having been already very distressed by what had happened;
- Mrs Z explained not being refunded the money sooner had ruined Christmas for her 
and her family;
- shed been stressed by the worry of being told she need to repay the remaining 
overdraft balance just before Christmas; and,
- shed had to move money from a credit card account to ensure she had sufficient 
money available for day to day costs.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened. She believed the figure of £100 was a fair 
offer in the circumstances. She explained that she thought the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs Z had suffered was mainly due to the actions of those responsible for the scam shed 
fallen victim to. She didnt consider Halifax was responsible for the actions of the scammers.
Mrs Z didnt agree with the investigators findings. So her complaint has been referred to me 
to reach a final decision on the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the account Mrs Z has given of the full impact she and her 
family suffered through the fraud. This was a cruel and sophisticated scam ultimately 
designed to steal Mrs Zs money. It must have been extremely distressing to have lost such 
a large sum. I have considerable sympathy for the situation Mrs Z found herself in as a 
result.
Halifax has now agreed to refund Mrs Z in full for the amount she lost. Its also agreed to pay 
interest and charges on that amount. The issue outstanding, and which I must decide here, 
is what would be a fair award for the distress and inconvenience Mrs Z suffered as a result 
of Halifaxs handling of the matter when it looked into her scam report.
Ive reviewed everything weve been sent by both sides to the complaint. In particular, Ive 
carefully reviewed the calls she had with Halifax, with a mind to the impact she has 
described.
The primary source of the distress Mrs Z suffered here was the scammer, rather than 
Halifax. Had Mrs Z not been the innocent victim of a cruel and very cynically timed crime, 
then she would not have had to go through everything that followed.
But while I cannot see any reasonable grounds to hold it responsible for the actions of the 
scammers, there is part of what happened over which Halifax did have control. 
In thinking about what is fair here, I therefore need to consider the actions Halifax took and 
what share of the impact Mrs Z suffered was due to Halifax alone  and not a result of the 
criminal actions of the scammer.
Halifax did respond promptly to Mrs Zs report of the scam. It offered Mrs Z a partial refund 
relatively quickly. But it initially declined to reimburse Mrs Z under the provisions of the CRM 
Code, leaving her considerably out of pocket and overdrawn to the full extent of her original 
overdraft facility. 
Ive considered the circumstances of the scam as reported during the various phone calls 
and the submissions of both sides. I find Halifax reasonably ought to have reached the 
decision to reimburse her under the CRM Code at the time it first considered her claim. Had 
Halifax refunded her at that point, then the further impact Mrs Z describes could have been 
substantively avoided. In particular, I am mindful here of the stress and worry of being short 
of money in the run up to the Christmas holiday period, and the worry Mrs Z felt about being 
told she was liable to repay the overdraft sum that had resulted from the scam.
Having listened to the calls I can hear how distressed Mrs Z was. I am very sorry to hear 
how much this affected her. In some calls the conversation did become heated. This was 
particularly so when the discussion turned to how much information Mrs Z may or may not 
have given to the scammers inadvertently. I can understand why at times Mrs Z might 
reasonably have felt she was being blamed for what had happened. 
Further, I consider that given Mrs Zs evident distress, Halifax could have explained better 
what was happening and checked that Mrs Z understood this. This didnt always happen.During the various calls, I consider there were points where Mrs Z was left unclear about 
what the next steps would be, including whether a separate complaint was being raised 
about the service shed received. This ultimately added to Mrs Zs distress at an already 
difficult time. In saying that, I believe that predominantly the call handlers did attempt to deal 
sensitively with Mrs Z at what was understandably a very distressing time
In thinking about what is a fair and reasonable outcome here, I have taken careful account of 
our approach to these types of awards, and our published guidance. Mrs Z has described 
the impact in detail, and I am persuaded that Halifax could have mitigated this had it acted 
as it should sooner. In all the circumstances, I consider an increased award of £250 is fair 
and reasonable compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Zs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax and require it to settle her complaint as follows:
-  pay Mrs Z a total of £250 in respect of the material distress and inconvenience 
caused to her by its decision not to refund in full when it first assessed her claim 
under the CRM Code. For clarity, if the banks initial offer of £100 has already been 
paid to Mrs Z then Halifax should pay the remaining balance of £150 to reach an 
overall figure of £250.
- make this payment within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman