DRN-2247217
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Aviva Life Services UK Limited sold them individual critical 
illness policies and a joint income protection policy they didnt need. The policies were sold 
alongside their interest only mortgage. Mr and Mrs B said they were told the policies were a 
condition of their mortgage, but their financial circumstances meant they didnt need them. 
Mr and Mrs B want Aviva to return all the premiums theyve paid.
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only mortgage for £68,000. The mortgage had a 
25-year term. At the same time, Aviva sold Mr and Mrs B joint mortgage protection in the 
form of a HomeProvider endowment policy. This policy offered a guaranteed pay out of 
£68,000, on death or on diagnosis of a specified critical illness. Mr and Mrs B have repaid 
their mortgage, but the endowment is still in place. Its current value is around £54,000 and it 
matures on 20 June 2025. Mr and Mrs B have told me they want to keep this policy, and this 
isnt the basis for their complaint.
Aviva also sold Mr and Mrs B individual HomePartner critical illness policies for family 
protection. Mr Bs policy provided £25,798 worth of cover. Mrs Bs policy provided £24,362 
worth of cover. The couple were also sold a joint HomePartner income protection policy. 
These policies are also still in place.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Aviva that it mis-sold them the individual critical illness policies 
and the joint income protection policy. They said they didnt need them, but said Aviva told 
them they had to have them as a condition of their mortgage.
Aviva was unable to locate documents to show exactly what happened when the policies 
were sold. But it said it wasnt aware of customers being told such cover was mandatory, 
and it thought the policies Mr and Mrs B were sold were suitable to meet their needs at the 
time.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Based on the information 
available to him at the time, he upheld it. Mr and Mrs B were happy with this outcome.
Aviva didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said 
the policies Mr and Mrs B were sold werent unsuitable, and there was no evidence Mr and 
Mrs B werent advised correctly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, 
particularly as I've reached a different outcome to our investigator. I gave Mr and Mrs B and 
Aviva the chance to comment further before issuing my final decision. But no comments 
were received. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. This includes more information thats been provided 
to me by both Mr and Mrs B and by Aviva. In this decision Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I should also add that Ive not seen copies of any paperwork from the point of sale, and so I 
dont know what exactly was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and Aviva about their needs 
or requirements. Nor have I seen any documentation showing any conditions attached to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage in respect of protection products. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive obtained further evidence as part of my review that wasnt available to the investigator. 
This evidence has made it clear what policies Mr and Mrs B were sold and what they were 
designed to do. Mr and Mrs B have also clarified exactly which policies they think were mis-
sold and why. With that in mind, my review focuses only on the sale of the individual critical 
illness policies and the joint income protection policy.
I dont know for sure if Aviva told Mr and Mrs B that taking out the individual critical illness 
policies and the joint income protection policy was a condition of their mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs B are adamant that was the case, given the policies were sold alongside the mortgage.
Ive seen nothing to corroborate Mr and Mrs Bs account of what they were told. But these 
policies didnt provide mortgage protection for Mr and Mrs B. Rather their purpose was, and 
still is, to provide family protection, in the event of illness or being unable to work due to ill-
health or an accident. So, whilst Aviva mightve recommended that such cover was worth 
having, I think its unlikely Aviva wouldve said it was a mandatory condition of Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage.
Its not unusual when getting advice around mortgage protection for other aspects of cover 
to be considered. Whilst I can see Mr and Mrs B had critical illness cover as part of the 
endowment policy, that was specifically to protect their mortgage. Having additional critical 
illness policies as family protection doesnt seem strange to me  and is in fact very sensible 
to protect their lifestyles in the event of changes to their health. Nor is it unusual to have a 
policy to protect them against a potential loss of income. And so, I dont think these policies 
were wholly unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B have said the critical illness policies and the income protection policy were 
unsuitable because they didnt need them as they were able to cover the mortgage 
payments. But these policies are not designed with that specifically in mind. They 
provide overall family protection in the event Mr or Mrs B were unable to work or diagnosed 
with a critical illness during their lifetime. And whilst they mightve been able to easily meet 
the mortgage payments, as well as other financial commitments back in 2000, unforeseen 
changes in their health or employment meant that couldnt be guaranteed. And so, I maintain 
that this cover wasnt unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B as it offers a guaranteed future benefit.
Ive looked also at the affordability of the policies. Again, I dont have any paperwork on this 
from the point of sale. But given Mr and Mrs B havent raised this as a specific concern and 
have kept all four of the policies in place, I cant say the policies were mis-sold on the basis 
they were unaffordable.Taking everything into account I dont think Aviva mis-sold the individual critical illness 
policies and the income protection policy to Mr and Mrs B. And so, I wont be asking it to 
take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman