DRN-3822747
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded her for money she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
Miss F brings her complaint with the aid of professional representation, but for clarity in what 
follows I will refer throughout just to Miss F.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Miss F was looking for a job working from home, and shed put a post on social media to 
help with the search. She says she was then contacted by someone who said they had an 
opportunity to make money.
This was described as being a part-time employment opportunity, working for a company Ill 
refer to as P. The premise was that the employee had to pay money up front as a deposit 
and then do work for P by liking social media posts. Each time a post was liked a small 
commission would be paid. 
By recommending others (referred to in the app as subordinates) a user of the app could 
increase the money theyd receive back. P had a mobile app, which Miss F downloaded. 
This included a link to a group chat, through which Miss F says she saw someone else had 
invested a sum of £100 successfully. She says there appeared to be a large number of 
people involved.
Miss F believed P had been trading for some time. She saw a page indicating the company 
was active in the US, and says she thought there was a chance this was real. She also 
thought the app, the terms and conditions and the support function all looked persuasive.
Miss F says she decided to join the free trial. She later sent an initial payment of £100. This 
was to pay for a package of work on the app. She sent this payment from her Monzo 
account to a business account by Faster Payments bank transfer. She was given a payee 
name to use which was a different name to that of P.
Just over a week later, Miss F sent a further payment. This was for the sum of £1,000. This 
payment went to a different payee than payment one. Again, the payees name didnt appear 
to have any connection to P.
It seems that Miss F was told initially withdrawals could be made to a bank account. But she 
was later told withdrawals would be made using cryptocurrency.
However, it seems Miss F was unable to recover her money and the app stopped working. 
Around a month after the last payment shed made, Miss F reported this as a scam to 
Monzo.
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from 
Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams) such as this one. But Monzo said it wouldnt 
refund Miss F because it didnt think shed taken enough steps to check who she was paying 
and what for. 
Miss F didnt accept this. One of our Investigators looked into what had happened but didnt 
think Monzo needed to pay her back what shed lost. He didnt think Monzo had any reason 
not to make the payments Miss F had instructed it to make. He said she had made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for belief that the transactions were legitimate.
Miss F disagreed, so I have been asked to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Miss F. I can understand why she wants her 
losses to be refunded to her. However, while I have sympathy for Miss F in what happened, I 
have to recognise that the principal cause of her losses here were the scammers who 
deceived her. I must also take into account that Monzo has a primary obligation to carry out 
the payment instructions its customers give it. As a starting point, a customer is therefore 
assumed liable for a payment they have instructed to be made.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payments Miss F made fall within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement). 
Relevant here, this includes where the customer made a payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, or that the 
payees were who the customer was expecting to pay.
Monzo says this exception applies here. It reviewed Miss Fs claim against the CRM Code, 
but it didnt think it was required to reimburse her. 
In deciding this complaint, I must first determine whether Monzo has established this 
exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Miss F made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. 
In determining these points, I have carefully considered everything Miss F has submitted as 
well as the evidence submitted by the bank.
This scam had some features that made it seem more genuine to Miss F, including an app 
with support functions and what appeared to be a community of active users. But there were 
other features that I think should have led Miss F to have genuine concerns that all might not 
be as it seemed. 
Miss F has explained how she was contacted by someone on a messaging app who she 
assumes found her contact details on her social media page. Having been contacted in this 
way she was being offered what seemed an easy way to make money.
When she reported the scam to Monzo Miss F said: I thought there might be a chance this was real [] but I did have my doubts because it sounded too good to be true. It does seem 
therefore that Miss F had significant doubts about the legitimacy of P. She went on to say 
that shed screenshotted their terms and conditions thinking it may help in the future if they 
do end up running away with my money.
Taking everything into account I think Miss F was right to have the doubts she did and the 
concerns she had about losing her money to P were valid. 
She was asked to make payments to two different company accounts  the names of which 
had no obvious connection to P. Its not clear why Miss F would reasonably have believed 
these payments were being made to the company P. Yet that was the company she had 
researched and to which she thought she was sending money to for the package of tasks in 
the app.
The larger second payment was made to what appears to have been an import/export 
company  not a social media firm and again with no apparent link to P. I find Monzo has 
established Miss F made these payments without a reasonable basis for believing that she 
was paying whom she believed she was paying. 
In passing, I note that it does appear that some funds were returned to Miss Fs Monzo 
account by the second payee on 25 January  a credit of £458. Its unclear what this credit 
was for, or if there might have been other payments back from the scheme. So, while I 
appreciate this observation is likely to be only of limited consolation, if any, to Miss F it does 
perhaps mean that her remaining loss from the payments she sent is lower than she might 
otherwise fear.
Ive considered the evidence here thoroughly including everything Miss F has said. Overall, 
Im satisfied that Monzo has fairly established that the exception to full reimbursement under 
the CRM Code can be applied to Miss Fs payments.
Ive considered whether Monzo met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. I dont 
consider these two payments were remarkable enough for Monzo to have been required to 
provide Miss F with an effective warning at the time she was making them. Neither do I find 
the bank had cause to intervene or sufficient reason not to carry out Miss Fs instructions.
It appears the scammers had moved money on from the receiving accounts very quickly. 
Miss F noted that the scammers withdrew all our money as soon as they got it and its 
basically impossible to get it back. Unfortunately, it is a common feature of APP scams such 
as this, that recovery of the funds will prove impossible due to the funds being rapidly moved 
onwards from the initial receiving account. Here, the scam didnt come to light until almost a 
month after the last payment Miss F sent to the scheme. 
In all the circumstances, I simply dont think there was any reasonable prospect that 
recovery in full (or part) could have been possible here  everything Ive seen suggests that 
the scam operated in such a way that any funds received were rapidly removed.
I also dont consider that I could fairly require Monzo to refund Miss F for any other reasons. 
I realise this will be a significant disappointment to Miss F. She has lost out to a scam that 
seems to have been designed to deceive her into sending money to a fake company. But as 
Ive noted above, the blame for this lies with the scammers who engineered this scheme, 
and I have not found that Monzo is liable to reimburse Miss F for her losses.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman