DRN-3408784
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that advice he received to invest into an unregulated Scion Film 
Opportunities LLP (Scion) holding was unsuitable. Mr W says this advice was provided by a 
representative of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (Quilter).
What happened
At the relevant date, Quilter was known as Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd 
(Positive Solutions) and so, for ease of reference, Ill simply refer to Positive Solutions 
throughout this decision.
Mr P of Regent Wealth Management (Regent) was a Registered Individual (RI) of Positive 
Solutions. Ill explain more about the term RI later in the decision, but for now its sufficient to 
say that Mr P was an agent of Positive Solutions and authorised to give advice on its behalf. 
Mr P ceased to be an RI of Positive Solutions altogether in 2011.
As I understand it, both parties accept that Mr P carried out a Fact Find with Mr W on 10 
October 2008. That Fact Find wasnt completed as a part of the advice Im reviewing in this 
complaint. But it was noted, amongst other things, in the Fact Find that Mr W:
Was 62 years old.
Had an income of £65,000.
Had a little over £250,000 in a pension plan with Skandia.
Had an overall risk profile of medium.
Mr W says he invested in a Scion holding in February 2009, on the advice of Mr P. And that, 
as a moderate risk investor, the Scion investment was unsuitable for him.
Weve seen no suitability report or recommendation letter for the advice. But weve been 
provided with some documentation from the period of the transactions complained about.
A Scion Film Opportunities LLP frequently asked questions document, dated 24 December 
2008, explains a bit about the Scion investment. It says, amongst other things, that:
Individuals would be subscribing for a share in a UK limited liability partnership.
The Partnership would trade in film industry activities and would finance films.
Each investment would be for £27,000, investors would contribute £9,000 of their 
own money and the remaining £18,000 would, subject to approval, be funded by a 
full recourse loan.
Each investor would need to commit for a seven-year period; the loan term would be 
no less than seven years and the capital would be repayable by 31 March 2016.
The loans would be secured against the investors interest in the Partnership. And 
the Partnership would also grant security over its own assets to the lender.
The indicative annual rate of return on the cash payment, before interest and tax, 
was projected to be 14% a year.
At the end of year seven, it was hoped that members would receive sufficient profits 
to repay the loan and enjoy an above market return on the money theyd invested.
Members would be personally liable to repay the loan if the Partnership assets didnt 
generate sufficient income to do so.
In accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, at the end of any 
accounting period, trading stock or work in progress held on the balance sheet 
should be written down to the lower of its cost and its net realisable value.
Given the nature of the Partnerships activities, future income might be uncertain, and 
this might result in the Partnership having to write down assets. This was particularly 
likely in the Partnerships first accounting period, when most of its capital was 
committed and before significant income mightve been secured.
The tax implications of subscribing to the Partnership were fairly uncontentious, and 
were incidental to the commercial objectives, so external tax Counsel hadnt been 
sought. But legal, accounting and tax advice had been taken from external advisers.
The Partnership was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) and 
could only be marketed by individuals authorised under the Financial Services and 
Markets Act (FSMA) 2000.
A Method of Cash Payment form for the Scion investment was completed for Mr W. This 
records that hed be investing £9,000. The form has been signed by Mr P on 19 January 
2009 on behalf of Regent as the introducer and Positive Solutions Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) number 184591 is given in the form. By signing the form, the introducers 
confirmed, amongst other things, that the issuing of the Information Memorandum and other 
promotions to Mr W had been made without contravention of sections 21, 238 and 240 of 
FSMA 2000.
Also on 4 February 2009, Mr W signed and Mr P witnessed, a subscription deed for the 
Scion investment. Its explained, amongst other things, in the deed that:
The subscriber (Mr W) had read, understood and agreed to the matters set out in the 
Information Memorandum for Scion Film Opportunities dated 9 January 2009.
The subscriber is experienced in business matters and recognises that the 
Partnerships a speculative venture and has no history of operations or earnings.
Membership of the Partnership might result in total capital loss and/or in the 
subscriber incurring additional liability.
There was no established market for interests in the Partnership.
It may be difficult to sell an interest in the Partnership, or to obtain reliable information 
about the value of the interest.
The Partnership wasnt authorised under FSMA 2000 and ordinary members 
wouldnt be able to claim under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) if the Partnership defaulted.
And, on the same date, Mr P signed an Introducing Advisers Certificate form for the Scion 
investment on behalf of Regent to confirm that, amongst other things, the identity of the 
subscriber had been verified. Positive Solutions FSA numbers also given in this form.
A Scion Loan Agreement has also been signed by Mr W on 4 February 2009, the 
agreement contains details about the loan and confirms its for £18,000.
Theres also a Scion Borrower Information form. This records that Mr Ws a co-director, that 
his total income is £70,000 and that hes got about £650,000 of prime assets (including 
property). The approximate total amount of his other assets was £250,000. Again, this form 
was signed by Mr W on 4 February 2009.
Mr W says that, aside from the signature which he acknowledges is his, the rest of the Scion Borrower Information form was completed by Mr P. Mr W doesnt know if he signed the 
form before or after values were added but hes highlighted that the figures arent quite 
accurate. Mr Ws explained that in February 2009 he and his wife jointly owned their home, 
which had a mortgage on it. Mr W says that they sold their home for £630,000 in 2016 and 
that its value in 2009 was around £500,000. Apart from this, Mr W says that the other assets 
he owned when the Scion investment was made in February 2009 were as follows:
About £5,000 in cash deposits.
A 26% share in his own company, this share was worth around £24,000.
About £6,000 in stocks and shares.
Around £250,000 in pension plans.
On 26 March 2013, a few years after hed made the Scion investment, HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) wrote to Mr W. HMRC believed thered been an error in Mr Ws tax return 
for the year ending 5 April 2009. It explained that, during that year, Mr W had included a 
sideways loss relief claim as a partner of Scion Film Opportunities LLP. But, as he was a 
non-active partner in the Partnership, HMRC was concerned Mr W might not have been 
entitled to sideways loss relief. And the assessment it was sending was to enable Mr W to 
make good the underpayment of tax that resulted from his sideways loss relief claim.
HMRCs assessment of the sum Mr W needed to pay was £9,538. A breakdown clarified 
how HMRC had arrived at this sum. Mr Ws 2009 loss relief claim had been for £23,845, and 
40% income tax on £23,845 was £9,538.
Mr W then paid the £9,538 to HMRC on 23 April 2013.
Scion Financial Partners Limited wrote to Mr W on 18 December 2014 and explained that:
It was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) authorised operator of the Partnership.
The Partnership was an UCIS.
It was intending to wind up the Partnership.
HMRC enquiries into the Partnership had been closed and Mr W would receive a 
separate letter confirming how this should be reflected in his personal tax returns.
SIF UK Limited (the lender for members loans) had agreed not to make any claims 
under members personal loans against members personally.
With the winding up, after the liquidators fees and expenses were met, it was 
anticipated that members should each receive about £2,140.
Mr Ws told us that:
During the HMRC investigation hed requested a copy of his original Scion 
application. He didnt recall having seen the application in detail before this. Hed 
been asked to sign pages by Mr P, with the document essentially being completed 
and submitted by Mr P.
The Scion investment was recommended by Mr P on the basis that hed only have to 
make an initial payment of £9,000 and he could claim this back on his next tax return 
as an allowable expense. It was essentially a cost neutral investment but with the 
potential to provide very good returns.
The investment was made around 4 February 2009.
His initial investment was £9,000 and the £18,000 was viewed as a loan, as the 
commitment had to total a minimum of £27,000.
Mr P said that the Scion proposal was different to other similar tax avoidance 
schemes as it was investing in film production directly.
HMRC, after a number of years, took a different view and he ended up having to pay more than £9,000 back to HMRC.
Apart from two UCISs in his pension fund that were the subject of a previous 
complaint we considered involving the same parties, hes not previously invested in 
any other UCISs.
In response to Mr Ws complaint Positive Solutions has said, amongst other things, that:
It doesnt have any record of Positive Solutions giving Mr W advice on the Scion 
investment.
It didnt authorise Mr P in relation to this investment, it didnt process this business 
and it didnt receive any commission.
Until he left in early 2011, Mr P was authorised to act as an Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA) with Positive Solutions.
Mr P was contracted to Positive Solutions as a self-employed IFA on a 'contract for 
services' basis and he was free to enter into contracts and agencies outside of his 
contract with Positive Solutions.
Mr P says that he informed Mr W that Positive Solutions didnt offer advice on 
unregulated investments.
It has no records of any agreement to provide an ongoing service to Mr W, and its 
asked us to consider the Terms of Business Mr P provided to Mr W.
More than one investigator was involved with reviewing Mr Ws complaint. Most recently, an 
investigator reviewing the complaint said the complaint should be upheld. That investigator 
found that Positive Solutions was responsible for unsuitable advice Mr W had received to 
invest in the Scion holding, and that Positive Solutions should redress Mr W for this.
Positive Solutions didnt agree with the investigator and said that Mr P knew the limitations of 
his authority and went outside that authority in presenting the Scion investment to Mr W. 
Further, that Mr Ps actions were unknown to it, and clearly werent sanctioned under Mr Ps 
agreement with it.
As agreement on this complaint couldnt be reached it was passed to me to review and I 
issued a provisional decision on 24 February 2022. In summary, I said that the complaint 
was one we could consider, that Positive Solutions was responsible for the complaint and 
that the complaint should be upheld.
I asked both parties to make any further submissions theyd like me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. In response to my provisional decision Positive Solutions has said, 
amongst other things, that:
The adviser acted outside his permissions in respect of the investments offered.
It hadnt seen copies of some of the documents referred to in the decision and asked 
for copies of these.
It doesnt agree with the decision and doesnt believe its liable for the advice.
In the comments Id made about the fact that I didnt think Mr W was a sophisticated 
investor, and I didnt think it was most likely hed have signed something to say that 
he was, I appeared to be preferring the verbal testimony of Mr W to that of Mr P.
Mr W had nothing further to add in response to the provisional decision.
Positive Solutions was provided, amongst other things, with a copy of any material 
information wed received about the Scion investment and the correspondence wed seen 
from HM Revenue & Customs to Mr W. Following on from this, Positive Solutions made 
some further comments for my consideration, including that:It doesnt appear that Mr W actually took a loan out, it was just a mechanic of the 
product and his outlay was therefore only his initial investment of £9,000.
Its also unclear what Mr Ws losses are.
Following on from this I wrote to both parties to clarify the redress wording Id set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Ive considered the further submissions both parties have made, and reviewed all the 
available evidence and arguments again. Having done so, my findings remain those I arrived 
at in my provisional decision. For completeness Ive set out my findings on this complaint in 
full below.
What Ive decided  and why
jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint.
As a preliminary point, I should explain that although Mr W set out his concerns to us in one 
letter, and Positive Solutions issued one response, the expression of dissatisfaction referred 
to this service by Mr W comprised more than one complaint. And, in this decision, Im only 
looking into Mr Ws complaint about the advice and arrangements to invest in the Scion 
holding.
There are two jurisdiction principal issues that need to be addressed, has the complaint 
been brought in time and is Positive Solutions responsible for the acts complained about?
Has the complaint been brought in time?
Positive Solutions has previously submitted that some of the issues Mr Ws complained to us 
about, across the complaints hes made, havent been made in time. Its not clear whether 
Positive Solutions are arguing that this complaint is time barred. So, for completeness, Ive 
considered whether this complaint about the Scion investment was brought in time.
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) chapter of the FCAs Handbook sets out the rules and 
guidance we use to decide whether we can look at a complaint. It explains that there are 
time limits for making complaints, DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became 
aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had 
cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limits in DISP 2.8.2R or DISP 2.8.7R was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances
The event being complained about is the advice and arrangement to invest into the Scion 
holding.
As I understand it, Positive Solutions first received the complaint in February 2015, and this 
followed on from us receiving Mr Ws complaint in December 2014.
Theres no suitability report or recommendation letter for the advice. So, Ive got to consider 
the wider context to establish when its most likely to have happened.
From the evidence I think its most likely that any advice process concluded shortly before 
the application form for the Scion holding was signed by Mr W and Mr P in February 2009. 
And Im also satisfied that Mr P was integral to the arrangements to complete the Scion 
investment; Mr P was recorded as the introducer on the application form, Mr P also verified 
Mr Ws identity for the transaction and Mr W says that he just signed the application form 
and that Mr P completed the other sections.
February 2009 was within six years of us receiving Mr Ws complaint in December 2014. So, 
Im satisfied Mr Ws complaint was raised within six years of the event complained about.
Therefore, my finding is that this complaint isnt time barred. 
Is Positive Solutions responsible for the acts complained about?
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility)."
So, I need to be satisfied that Mr Ws complaint relates to regulated activities and, if so, that 
Positive Solutions accepted responsibility for those acts.
Positive Solutions hasnt got any record of advice being given on the holding. Mr W contends 
that Mr P advised on and arranged this investment. Positive Solutions seems to disagree, 
and it certainly says it didnt authorise Mr P to give the disputed advice or arrange this 
investment.
Theres no written record of the advice that Mr W says Mr P gave on the Scion investment. 
But Mr Ps details were noted in the investment application documents, and Regent was 
recorded as the introducer. Mr W says that Mr P recommended the Scion investment, and 
that Mr P completed and submitted the application forms hed been asked to sign.
And we also know that a few months before the Scion investment was made that Mr P was advising Mr W on pension provisions he had, including on unregulated investments.
The Scion investment was a UCIS. Advising on the merits of investing in UCISs is a 
regulated activity our service has jurisdiction to look at. Arranging such investments is also a 
regulated activity. On balance, and having carefully considered all of the available evidence, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr P advised on, and made arrangements for, the Scion 
investment. So, Mr Ws complaint relates to regulated activities.
As such, the next issue to address is whether Mr P was acting as an agent of Positive 
Solutions and whether his acts or omissions are in respect of activities for which Positive 
Solutions accepted responsibility.
Mr P wasnt an employee of Positive Solutions, he was its agent and he had an agency 
agreement with it to be one of its RIs. This meant that Positive Solutions authorised Mr P to 
carry out certain regulated acts on its behalf.
The agency agreement was non-exclusive, it didnt prevent Mr P acting independently or for 
another firm at the same time. But I dont think thats what happened here. Im satisfied that 
in giving the advice and making the arrangements this complaint concerns that Mr P was 
acting as an agent of Positive Solutions. I say that because:
Mr Ps details with Positive Solutions authorisation number appears on the Scion 
investment application forms.
As an agent of Positive Solutions, Mr P had been advising Mr W about his pension 
arrangements a few months earlier in October 2008.
So, I now need to go on to decide whether the advice and arrangements given and made by 
Mr P are acts for which Positive Solutions accepted responsibility. If not, then we wont have 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint against Positive Solutions.
Did Positive Solutions accept responsibility for the advice?
The law recognises more than one type of agency. Agency is where one party (the principal
here Positive Solutions) allows another party (the agent  here Mr P) to act on its behalf in 
such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. An agent may have actual 
authority, where the principal has expressly or impliedly given its assent to the agent that it 
may act on its behalf. Or the agent may have apparent authority, where the principal has 
made a representation to a third party that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and 
the third party has relied on this representation.
Theres an express agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr P. The agreement sets 
out that Mr P must account to Positive Solutions for all business and only advise on 
investments that it had pre-approved. Theres also a general point in agency of this type that 
the agent is required to act in the principals best interests.
As I understand it, the Scion holding wasnt an approved investment, and Mr P doesnt 
appear to have notified Positive Solutions about what he was doing. So, it doesnt appear as 
if Mr P was acting in accordance with the actual authority hed been given. And I cant 
conclude that Positive Solutions accepted responsibility for acts complained about by Mr W 
by way of actual authority.
Thats not however the end of the matter, because theres also agency based on apparent or 
ostensible authority. It arises when the principal represents to third parties through words or 
conduct that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and the third party reasonably relies 
upon that representation. The essence of apparent authority isnt concerned with what was actually agreed between the parties (for example by way of the agency agreement), but 
rather, how the relationship between those parties appeared to third parties. In this 
complaint, Im concerned with how the relationship appeared to Mr W.
The case law makes it clear that whether a claimant has relied on a representation is 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. So here, I must consider whether, on 
the facts of this individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr W that Mr P had Positive Solutions 
authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains about; 
and
Mr W reasonably relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he 
now complains about.
I need to decide whether Positive Solutions placed Mr P in a position which would objectively 
generally be regarded as carrying its authority to enter into transactions. Put another way, 
did Positive Solutions knowingly  or even unwittingly  lead Mr W to believe that Mr P was 
authorised to conduct business on its behalf of a type (namely, advising and arranging 
investments) that he wasnt in fact authorised to conduct? If I find that it did, I also need to 
decide whether Mr W reasonably relied on any representation Positive Solutions made.
Did Positive Solutions represent to Mr W that Mr P had the relevant authority?
I think Positive Solutions placed Mr P in a position which would objectively generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr W complains about. I say this for the 
following reasons.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an IFA firm that gave advice and offered products from 
the whole of the market after assessing a clients needs. No information was provided to 
clients or potential clients about the agent being authorised in relation to approved products 
only.
Positive Solutions authorised Mr P to give investment advice on its behalf and Mr P was held 
out by it as authorised to give investment advice on its behalf. Positive Solutions arranged 
for Mr P to appear on the regulators register in respect of Positive Solutions. And Mr P was 
approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Positive Solutions accepts Mr W was given its Terms of Business by Mr P. This showed that 
Mr P could advise on and arrange investments for Positive Solutions customers. None of 
these activities would be unexpected for an IFA firm. Theyre all the type of activity that IFAs 
are usually authorised to do.
Any restrictions on the authority to give advice, such as using only certain investments 
wouldnt have been visible to Mr W. So, for example, he wouldnt know that an adviser 
should only recommend approved investments, should obtain clearance from Positive 
Solutions before giving certain types of advice and should present the advice in certain 
ways.
It was in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mr W, to understand that 
it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. Im satisfied that 
Positive Solutions intended Mr W to act on its representation that Mr P was its financial 
adviser. I say this because, the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive 
Solutions business. It said in its terms of business that its Partners would give impartial, 
independent financial advice. I dont see how Positive Solutions couldve carried out its 
business activities at all if the general public hadnt treated registered individuals like Mr P as having authority to give investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions.
Positive Solutions placed Mr P in a position which would, in the outside world, generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr W complains about.
So I think that all of these points taken together mean that Positive Solutions did represent to 
Mr W that Mr P was authorised to give the advice he gave to Mr W and make the 
arrangements he did.
Did Mr W reasonably rely on Positive Solutions representation?
Positive Solutions has said that Mr P recollects telling Mr W that Positive Solutions didnt 
offer advice on unregulated investments. But, on balance, I dont think Mr Ps recollections 
about this are consistent with evidence weve seen in this complaint. And theyre also not 
consistent with the evidence we saw in a previous complaint involving the same parties in 
which two UCIS investments were made in Mr Ws pension fund. In that complaint, we were 
satisfied that Mr P gave advice on unregulated investments as a Positive Solutions adviser.
As Ive explained above, I think the forms completed as part of the application for Scion 
make it clear that Mr P was purporting to act as an agent of Positive Solutions in these 
matters.
Mr Ws also said he understood Mr P to be acting as a Positive Solutions adviser when he 
gave the advice and made the arrangements that this complaint concerns. And I havent 
seen any evidence to show that Mr W knew or should reasonably have known that Mr P was 
acting in any capacity other than a Positive Solutions adviser.
In my view, the evidence does indicate that Mr W proceeded on the basis that Mr P was 
acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with authority from Positive 
Solutions so to act. In other words, Mr W reasonably relied on Positive Solutions 
representation that Mr P was authorised to give the investment advice he gave to Mr W.
Its therefore my finding that Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice Mr W complains 
about and that we can consider his complaint.
merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided submissions to support their position and Im 
grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I 
trust that they wont take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to address every point 
raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.The Scion investment appears to have been an UCIS. And, as such, was subject to the 
scheme promotion restriction (s.238 FSMA). Adviser firms had a choice between two 
different sets of exemptions from the s.238 restrictions under the Promotion of Collective 
Investment Schemes (Exemptions) Order 2001 SI 1060 (as amended) and under FSA rules 
exempting the promotion of UCIS under certain circumstances. Relevant exemptions 
included:
Certified high net worth individuals.
Certified sophisticated investors.
Self-certified sophisticated investors
Ive seen no evidence that Mr W was someone who was certified as a high net worth 
individual or a sophisticated investor.
With regards to the third category, self-certified sophisticated investors, Positive Solutions 
has previously said that Mr P recollects Mr W completing and signing certificates to confirm 
he was a self-certified sophisticated investor. But Mr W didnt agree with Mr Ps recollection 
about this, and weve seen no evidence of the certificates Mr Ps mentioned. Mr Ws said 
that There is again no documentation to supportthe certificates referred to, to entertaining 
the notion that any of us could possibly consider ourselves, or be allowed to consider 
ourselves as sophisticated investors, self-certified or otherwise.
On balance, and having carefully reviewed all of the evidence, I dont think its most likely 
that Mr W was a sophisticated investor. And I also dont think its most likely Mr W wouldve 
signed something to say that he was.
To be clear, as Ive mentioned previously, I dont think Mr Ps recollections that he told Mr W 
that Positive Solutions didnt offer advice on unregulated investments is consistent with the 
evidence weve seen in this complaint. Theyre also not consistent with the evidence we saw 
in a previous complaint involving the same parties in which two UCIS investments were 
made in Mr Ws pension fund. In that complaint, we were satisfied that Mr P gave advice on 
unregulated investments as a Positive Solutions adviser. And, in my opinion, that lack of 
consistency does make Mr Ps recollections, and from the same general period, about Mr W 
having completed and signed certificates to confirm he was a self-certified sophisticated 
investor less credible.
Ive also carefully considered any other exemptions that might have applied.
At the time, there was also an exemption in COBS 4.12.1R that potentially applied if a 
consumer held other similar UCIS investments. This service concluded in a previous 
complaint involving the same parties that UCIS investments Mr P arranged to be held in Mr 
Ws pension plan werent suitable for Mr W. These were the only previous UCIS investments 
Mr W had made. I dont think those other UCISs were substantially similar to the Scion 
investment, but even if they were it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for a firm to seek to rely on 
a COBS 4.12.1R Category 1 person exemption when a consumers only previous 
participation in UCISs was the result of unsuitable recommendations for which that firm was 
responsible.
All that said, the Scion holding could still have been promoted to Mr W by Mr P under 
another exemption if Mr P had assessed the Scion investment as being suitable for Mr W.
Im satisfied that Mr W was a financially unsophisticated retail client and as I mentioned 
above, based on all of the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that he received and 
acted upon advice from Mr P to invest in the Scion holding. So, Ive gone on to carefully 
consider whether advice to invest in the Scion holding was suitable for Mr W.In advising Mr W, Mr P ought to have made a recommendation that was consistent with
Mr Ws circumstances, objectives, attitude to investment risk and capacity for loss. And Mr P 
ought to have explained in writing the reasons he thought the Scion investment was 
appropriate for Mr W, including an explanation of the risks associated with the advice, but 
this doesnt appear to have happened.
As I understand it, the Scion holding was a specialist investment intending to trade in film 
industry activities and film financing. The investment documentation says that the 
Partnership was a speculative venture, with no history of operations or earnings and that 
membership of the Partnership could result in the loss of the capital invested and that 
investors might incur additional liability. I think this investment would generally be considered 
a higher risk investment.
This was an unusual holding, operating in a very specific way. And it might reasonably be 
described as a sophisticated and/or complex investment; and could suffer significant losses, 
the nature of which would be difficult to predict or estimate at the outset. I consider the 
holding exposed investors to significant risks such as illiquidity and risks inherent in 
unregulated investments. The investment wasnt subject to regulation in the same way as 
regulated funds. And investors potentially didnt have recourse to the FSCS or this service.
These factors were, or shouldve been, apparent to Mr P at the time and shouldve been 
taken carefully into account in assessing the suitability of this investment for Mr W.
Mr W says the Scion investment wasnt suitable for his moderate risk profile. Mr Ws overall 
risk profile was recorded as being medium in an October 2008 Fact Find, this was a few 
months before the Scion investment was made. The Fact Find was compiled when advice 
was being given on Mr Ws pension monies, whereas the Scion investment was made with 
monies from outside of Mr Ws pension arrangements.
Mr Ws financial position in February 2009 was relevant to the level of risk he could afford to 
take and his capacity for loss. Ive not seen a Fact Find from the relevant period in which Mr 
Ws total assets and liabilities were fully recorded. But, as mentioned in the Background 
section above, Mr W has since provided us with details of his financial position at that time.
Mr W says Mr P told him that hed be able to claim the £9,000 investment back in his next 
tax return, so hed understood that the Scion investment was cost neutral. And that, on top 
of this, the investment would also have the potential to provide very good returns. Mr W then 
made a sideways loss relief claim linked to the Scion holding in his 2008-2009 tax return.
So, on balance, I think its most likely that Mr W relied on what Mr P said and that this led Mr 
W to believe the risk of suffering an overall loss on the £9,000 invested was low, as monies 
would be claimed back in his tax return and the investment would also have the potential to 
provide good returns. And that Mr W then agreed to proceed with the investment on this 
basis.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the risks associated with the Scion investment 
were significant. Further, Mr Ws exposure to loss wasnt limited to the £9,000 he was 
investing, he also had to take out an £18,000 loan as part of the Scion investment and Mr W 
was personally liable to repay this loan if the Partnership assets didnt generate sufficient 
income to do so.
In my view, the Scion investment was non-standard, higher risk and specialist. I take the 
view Mr P ought to have been aware of the fact that such a holding was unlikely to be 
suitable for Mr W. Its important for advisers to take these matters into account when assessing the suitability of the products for an individual investor. And for potential investors 
to understand that such investments presented a significant risk to the monies being 
invested. From what Ive seen, the risks involved in investing in this holding werent 
adequately explained to Mr W by Mr P. And, in my view, the Scion investment wasnt a 
suitable investment for an individual in Mr Ws circumstances, with his risk profile and with 
his capacity for loss.
So, I think that the advice Mr W received from Mr P to invest in the Scion holding was 
unsuitable. And I think that Mr W should be compensated for any losses hes suffered as a 
result of this.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr W has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice he 
received, I think that the loss of these monies has caused Mr W some distress, and I think 
that its fair for Positive Solutions to compensate him for this as well.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr W to the position hed now be in if suitable advice had been given. I 
think if suitable advice had been given that Mr Ws monies wouldve been invested in a 
manner that was appropriate for Mr W allowing for his circumstances, attitude to risk and 
investment objectives.
Ive no way of determining definitively into what holdings, and in what proportions, the 
monies in question wouldve been invested had suitable advice been given. So, I think its 
fair and reasonable to ask Positive Solutions to perform a notional redress calculation, and 
using a benchmark with the qualities of investments of the type Mr W would likely have 
made.
I think its fair and reasonable for Positive Solutions to redress Mr W for all losses which 
have been caused by monies being unsuitably invested in the Scion holding.
To be fair, any redress calculation needs to allow for any monies that were returned to Mr W 
from the Scion investment, such as any monies that were returned to investors when the 
Partnership was wound up. Scion Financial Partners Limiteds letter of 18 December 2014 
suggests that the sum to be returned might be around £2,140 each. And Mr W will be 
expected to assist Positive Solutions in obtaining such information as it might need to 
complete the redress calculation set out below. For example, by providing it with evidence of 
the date and amount of any payment he received when the Partnership was wound up.
So, in summary, I think Mr W wouldve invested differently and its not possible to say 
precisely what he wouldve done. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
With regards to the sum Mr W had to pay to HMRC in April 2013; from the content of the 
assessment that HMRC sent to Mr W, the £9,538 Mr W paid to HMRC appears to solely 
consist of the underpayment of tax that resulted from Mr Ws earlier sideways loss relief 
claim. So, to be clear, as I understand it from HMRCs 26 March 2013 letter, the £9,538 Mr 
W had to pay to HMRC was just the additional tax he ought to have paid during the tax year 
ending 5 April 2009. And Im satisfied that Mr W has suffered no additional loss by way of 
paying a sum to HMRC in 2013 that ought to have been paid to HMRC previously.
As Mr W paid the full sum HMRC requested back in 2013 then, as I understand it, the issues 
between Mr W and HMRC about the sideways loss relief claim are now resolved. However, 
for completeness, I want to highlight to the parties that were this to change in the future, and 
were HMRC to request some further payment from Mr W, its very unlikely that Mr W would be able to refer a subsequent complaint to us about this. I appreciate that the likelihood of 
this happening over eight years after Mr W made the requested payment to HMRC is 
remote, but its still important that were open and clear with the parties about the likelihood 
of us being able to look at any related complaint in the future.
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Quilter must do all of the following:
1. Calculate what the £9,000 Mr W personally invested in the Scion holding would 
be worth, as at the date of this decision, had it achieved a return from the date 
of investment equivalent to:
For half the investment the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index.
For the other half of the investment the monthly average rate for one-
year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for 
each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
As part of this notional calculation, Quilter must make an allowance for the 
following notional withdrawals:
Any monies that were returned to Mr W from the Scion investment, 
including monies that were returned to investors when the Partnership 
was wound up.
2. Interest at the rate of 8% simple per year should be added to the final sum 
calculated in step 1. from the date of this decision to the date of settlement if 
compensation isnt paid within 28 days of the business being notified of 
acceptance of this decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Quilter 
should give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
3.Pay Mr W directly £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Mr Ws been caused some distress by the events this complaint relates to, and 
the loss of a significant portion of the monies invested into the Scion holding. I 
think that a payment of £250 is fair to compensate him for that upset.
4.Quilter should also provide Mr W with a copy of its calculation, showing its 
calculation of the compensation due in a simple and easy to follow format.
Finally, Quilter may require, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr W of any claim he may 
have against third parties in relation to his Scion investment. If Quilter chooses to take 
an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment of compensation is made. 
Quilter would need to meet any costs in drawing up the assignment.
Why is this remedy suitable?Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives with the 
monies this complaint concerns. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably 
put Mr W into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr W wouldve invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr W couldve obtained from investments suited to his 
objectives and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation that 
isnt paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance of the 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above it is my decision that we can consider Mr Ws complaint 
against Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited.
It is also my decision that the complaint is upheld and that Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited must pay fair compensation to Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman