DRN-3661382
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Zs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr Z approached NTM in late November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
NTM says he was referred to it by a work colleague. He was concerned about the future of 
his employer and the related DB scheme. He wanted to consider his options and was 
particularly concerned about his pension moving to the PPF. 
NTM completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Zs circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he:
Was 37 years old and single with no dependents. I understand he was in a new 
relationship, but they kept their finances separate at the time.  
Earned £50,000 and was living within his means. 
Had £7,000 in cash.
Wanted to purchase a property in the near future.
Mr Z had deferred benefits in the BSPS scheme. The Cash Equivalent Transfer Value 
(CETV) that he had already received showed that Mr Z had around eight and a half years 
service in the BSPS. The transfer value was £87,415 and it would provide an annual pension 
at the date of leaving of £4,141.01.
Mr Z had also joined his employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme and he, and 
his employer, would be contributing a combined total of 16% of his income into this 
NTM also carried out an assessment of Mr Zs attitude to risk, which it said was low. 
He didnt have any investment experience and the statement he said summarised his 
attitude to risk was that he would take a small degree of risk, but would be more concerned 
about the potential losses than the gains and would look to avoid larger falls in his 
investment value. 
On 21 December 2017, NTM advised Mr Z to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a third party personal pension using funds that met his 
attitude to risk. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: 
To prevent Mr Zs pension moving to the PPF. 
Facilitate his early retirement at age 57 with a net income of £1,800 per month. 
He wanted to have control and flexibility over his income in retirement and maintain 
his income. 
He had no dependents and so the death benefits could be extended to his wider 
family. 
He could access a greater amount of tax-free cash to minimise the tax he would pay 
in retirement.
Mr Z complained in 2021 about the suitability of the advice he was given to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension. He contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service initially and 
the complaint was forwarded to NTM to consider it.  
Mr Z complained that NTM had said the BSPS2 was underfunded and would likely not 
survive. He was concerned about his pension moving to the PPF. He was also concerned 
that his pension is now subject to stock-market risk when it wasnt before, and he is now 
paying fees that he wouldnt be if he had joined the BSPS2.
NTM didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint. It said:
The advice was suitable for him at the time and met his needs. The fact-finding 
process was robust.  
It was correct to note that the BSPS was underfunded, but the adviser said he didnt 
comment on the funding position of the BSPS2. 
But there was some uncertainty about the BSPS2, and this would have influenced 
Mr Zs decision to transfer. 
Mr Z was told that the personal pension wasnt guaranteed, he wasnt told that the 
pension would grow at 5% per year. Mr Z has since indicated his is pleased with the 
fund performance.
Mr Z was provided with full information about the sale of the plan. He was made 
aware of the fees and charges payable, both at the time and on an ongoing basis 
Mr Z referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended NTM pay compensation. He said that he didnt think the transfer was 
financially viable and Mr Z was now likely to have lower pension benefits. The transfer was 
also likely to have had too much risk for him. Mr Zs retirement aims seemed generic. The 
main driver was his perceived unhappiness about the situation with his employer and the 
BSPS. 
NTM disagreed, saying:  
Whilst it appreciated there had been DB transfer mis-selling in the past it hadnt mis-
sold the personal pension to Mr Z. The advice it gave to Mr Z shouldnt be pre-judged 
on past industry malpractice. 
Mr Z has only complained about the information he was given about the BSPS2s 
funding rather than the suitability of the advice given. As this complaint cannot be proven it should be dismissed. The Financial Ombudsman shouldnt investigate 
issues that Mr Z has not complained about directly. 
When NTM had provided its finalised advice in January 2018, the deadline to join the 
BSPS2 had passed. Mr Z could only join the PPF.
The appropriate comparator here was the PPF as this was the only alternative Mr Z 
had at the time of the finalised advice. This gave a lower critical yield than our 
Investigator quoted. 
Mr Z was not a cautious investor, he had other pension funds that were risk bearing.
Our Investigator didnt give full and proper weight to Mr Zs objectives.
The critical yield and discount rates are not appropriate comparators in any event. 
Staying in the BSPS would not have met any of his actual pension objectives. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NTM has said that Mr Zs complaint is very narrow and only concerns some of the 
information he was provided at the time of sale. But this isnt the case. Mr Zs first email to 
the Financial Ombudsman says  I was probably wrongly advised about transferring my 
pension from BSPS . His complaint form, which has been provided to NTM defines the 
service he is complaining about as a defined benefit transfer and he explains why. I think its 
clear his main concern is the advice he was given to transfer his BSPS benefits to a 
personal pension. The sections of the complaint that NTM now highlight are some of the 
reasons that Mr Z thinks the advice wasnt right. But they arent the only issues I should 
consider. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Zs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Zs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits and Mr Z didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed 
to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. 
NTM has said that it couldnt give advice about the BSPS2 as when the transfer process 
completed it was past Mr Zs deadline to join it. And there were serious doubts about its 
future in any event. So, the only meaningful comparisons it could provide were with the 
benefits available to Mr Z through the PPF and the BSPS. But I think NTM overestimated the 
chance of this not happening. Mr Z had received his time to choose pack by the time the 
advice was given and it was likely that the scheme was going ahead, as it did. And details of 
the scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but 
the annual increases wouldve been lower. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that NTM gave advice in January 2018. It did produce a 
full suitability report on 21 December 2017, which was before Mr Zs deadline to join the 
BSPS2. And NTM should have worked to the timeframes Mr Z needed to stick to, in order to 
give him enough time to decide what was the best course of action. I dont think its 
reasonable to say that the PPF was his only option here, he clearly could have joined the 
BSPS2 and NTM had enough time to give him advice about this.  
So, I still think the benefits available to Mr Z through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in 
with the advice NTM gave so that he was able to make an informed decision. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
Mr Z was 37 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 57. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Zs benefits at age 65 was 6.8% if he took a full pension and 5.99% if he took tax-
free cash and a reduced pension. The same figures at Mr Zs age 60 were 7.44% and 6.49% 
respectively. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
5.37% per year if Mr Z took a full pension and 5.13% per year if he took Tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. Again, the same figures at his age 60 were 6.11% and 5.87%. 
Its not clear why NTM didnt do an analysis to Mr Zs age 57 as this is when he wanted to 
retire. But given this was some time in the future anyway his age 60 is probably close 
enough. 
As Ive said above, Mr Z remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been provided by NTM. 
The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits, particularly at age 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.5% per year for 22 years to retirement or his age 60. To his age 65 the discount rate 
was 4.6%. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Zs 
low attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
NTM says that Mr Zs attitude to risk was not low or cautious. But it was very clearly 
documented at the time of sale that his attitude to risk was low. The investor profile report 
that NTM produced, after considering the answers Mr Z gave to the questions he had been 
asked said, that his attitude to risk was low. The suitability report also said his attitude to 
risk was low and he had no experience of investments. The suitability report produced in 
December 2017 gave advice based on Mr Z having a low attitude to risk. 
NTM now says that Mr Z had another pension that was invested in risk bearing assets. Im 
assuming that this was his new employers DC scheme. But as far as I can see Mr Z had no 
input into the investments in this arrangement. And even he did, how this affected Mr Zs risk 
tolerance should have been fully documented at the time. This wasnt done. 
It would seem to me to be speculation, and not based on any of the facts as they were 
recorded at the time of sale, to say that Mr Zs tolerance and capacity for risk were anything 
other than low. 
There would be little point in Mr Z giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was over 5%, I think Mr Z was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
The suitability letter said that the critical yields at age 65 were achievable over the longer 
term when compared to his current attitude to risk. But that matching his return at age 60 
would need Mr Z to take a higher risk. And so, they werent achievable.  
But I dont think any of these are achievable for Mr Z. All of the critical yields are above the 
regulators medium growth rates and some are nearer the high level. But Mr Zs tolerance for 
risk was much lower than this. He would have been looking at growth rates around the 2% level rather than the 5% level. Which is the minimum he needed to replace his DB scheme 
benefits. So, I think it was misleading to say that any of the critical yields were achievable.  
NTM has provided various cashflow models which it says show that Mr Z wouldve been able 
to meet his needs despite the high critical yields. But these are based on different 
parameters to the BSPS scheme and assume a 5% return before charges are taken from 
the fund. So, I dont think they are a genuine comparison with his BSPS or BSPS2 benefits. 
Also, as NTM will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
And NTM also provided an estimate of the fund values he would need to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up in the DC scheme. At age 65 this was between £285,456.81 and 
£351,562, the lower amount is where Mr Z took tax-free cash. And the same amounts for his 
age 60 were between £252,058.18 and £309,278.03. 
These were significantly higher than the transfer value, and probably higher that what the 
transfer could reasonably be assumed to grow to, given Mr Zs lower attitude to risk. These 
give a revealing insight into the value of the benefits Mr Z gave up when he transferred out 
to a personal pension plan. 
NTM says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings just on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Zs attitude to risk, which leads me to believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
NTM also says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth 
required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the 
benefits provided by the DB scheme. NTM says Mr Z didnt want an annuity, it said he 
wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required NTM to consider the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant 
consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr Z could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to 
retire for at least another 20 years. Its entirely possible that Mr Z would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme).
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Zs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as NTM has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons that NTM recommended this transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr Z. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr Z needed to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
It's evident that Mr Z could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly in the same way as a 
personal pension. Although he could choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual 
pension, Mr Z had to take those benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr Z 
had any concrete need to take Tax-Free Cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his 
income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a 
genuine objective.
It was recorded that Mr Z wanted £1,800 per month in todays terms, meaning that in reality 
his income at retirement would need to be a lot higher to produce this. This is around 
£22,000 a year. There wasnt a lot of detail about this but given his personal situation and 
the time he had left to retirement. Mr Z would have only been able to estimate his retirement 
needs at best. So, this isnt surprising. 
NTM completed an analysis on 11 December 2017 of Mr Zs BSPS benefits, calculating that 
if Mr Z stayed in the BSPS, he would receive a pension of £8,107 or a reduced pension of 
£5,372 with a tax-free lump sum of £35,818. At age 60 these figures reduced to £5,889 or 
£4,043 with a lump sum of £26,956. 
The benefits from the PPF at age 65 were shown to be an annual pension of £6,393.21 or a 
tax-free cash of £34,126.04 and a reduced pension of £5,111.90. And at age 60 the pension 
was £5,176.73. Or tax-free cash of £28,620.72 and a pension of £4,293.10.  
As Ive said above, the BSPS2 amounts would have been different to this. Depending on the 
retirement dates I would expect the amounts to be somewhere between the BSPS and PPF 
amounts. But nearer the BSPS mostly. 
And Mr Z would receive his state pension at age 68 which would usually be around £9,000 a 
year. 
So I think its evident that Mr Z hadnt accrued enough pension benefits yet to be able to 
meet his early retirement aims or to draw the income he wanted at his age 65. This was 
because he still had some way to go before retiring. 
But I think an important factor here is that at the time of sale Mr Z was a member of his 
employers new DC scheme and he would be building up a fund over the next 20 years or so 
(as a minimum), through this. As a very rough estimate, given his salary, the total amount 
going into the scheme each month would be about £666. Even without taking investment 
growth into account, it would be worth in the region of £176,000. And by assuming modest 
growth of 2% over 22 years, the funds could be worth in the region of £220,000 by the time 
Mr Z was 60.
This means that at age 60, if Mr Z opted into the BSPS2, he could take an annual increasing 
pension. Given that there wasnt any known need for the tax-free cash (Mr Z didnt have a 
mortgage or any debt) I think its likely that Mr Z couldve met his income needs until his 
state pension became payable at age 68. I think its likely any shortfall couldve been met by 
Mr Z accessing income or tax-free cash from his DC scheme. Mr Z would have likely had a 
significant pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or take 
additional lump sums. So, I dont think Mr Z would have had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2. I think his existing arrangements already had a 
significant degree of flexibility. 
But even if this didnt entirely work out. As Ive set out above, Mr Z was unlikely to obtain 
benefits of the same value at retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So, 
as a starting point I think Mr Z had a better chance of achieving his target retirement income 
of £1,800 per month by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed 
and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension. 
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr Z had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr Z 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £6,393.21 per year. This was probably lower than the 
pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it was substantially lower such 
that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr Z 
wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable. So, I still 
think Mr Z couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and 
hed had to move with it to the PPF.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr Z could have better met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. So, I dont think it was in Mr Zs best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Mr Z wasnt married at the time and he had no dependents. That said death benefits are an 
emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their family to benefit 
when they die. Mr Z said the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension 
were an attractive feature to him as he could nominate his wider family to benefit on his 
death. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr Z might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr Z about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think NTM 
explored to what extent Mr Z was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.
And Mr Z did already have significant death benefits with the DC scheme that he could use 
this in this way. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr Z. I appreciate that death 
benefits werent a critical part of the advice at the time. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr Z, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
The point of sale information shows that he was unhappy that his pension had been reduced 
and wanted to move. He was concerned if he moved into the BSPS2 then he would lose flexibility. NTM told Mr Z that the scheme trustees had not given a guarantee that the BSPS2 
would remain viable and that he would not end up in the PPF. 
So its quite possible that Mr Z was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was NTMs obligation to give Mr Z an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr Z through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Zs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that NTM shouldve 
reassured Mr Z that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr Z through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to NTM recommending Mr Z transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
I think Mr Zs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr Z was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr Z  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from their DB scheme.
And it seems to me that Mr Zs stated desire for control related more to moving his 
pension away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to 
begin to manage his investment. 
It was recorded that Mr Z wanted to break all ties with this employer. But it ought to have 
been explained that Mr Zs employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 were not the same. 
And in any event, Mr Z was not intending to leave his employment and his DC pension 
remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme didnt achieve a 
break from his employer. So had NTM explained that Mr Zs belief regarding the control 
Mr Zs employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he would have been 
reassured by this.
I think its reasonable to say that NTM did the opposite of this. The documentation seems to 
place a lot of emphasis on the uncertainties that surrounded this situation and that the 
BSPS2 itself could ultimately fail. It said that the trustees had not managed the scheme 
correctly so far and this may continue going forward. It even went so far as to say in the 
suitability letter that it was unclear if the scheme could move the PPF when it said I am 
usure how the PPF will react to this type of approach as they are there to protect members 
of a pension when an employer fails. The BS2 pension is no longer connected. I think this 
misrepresented the situation to Mr Z. 
Suitability of investments
NTM recommended that Mr Z invest in some risk based funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr Z, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr Z should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr Z. But NTM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr Z might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr Z needed and recommend what was in their best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr Z was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr Z was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr Z shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme largely due to the uncertainty surrounding his employer and the scheme. This 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr Z had over 20 years before he 
expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr Z wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, if Mr Z married in the future his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at 
the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr Z chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think NTM shouldve advised Mr Z to opt into the 
BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr Z would've gone ahead anyway, against NTM's 
advice. 
I accept that NTM disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr Z and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr Z to 
transfer out, and I think Mr Z relied on that advice. And even though the process wasnt 
finalised on 21 December 2017, NTM provided full advice on this date. And it could have 
advised Mr Z differently. 
Im aware that in some communications with NTM Mr Z appeared motivated to get the 
transfer out completed and he particularly didnt want his pension to end up in the PPF. But 
Mr Z had received advice from NTM that he should transfer out of the DB scheme. So, I 
think his words have to be considered in that context. It isnt reasonable to assume that hed 
have behaved the same way if hed been advised to opt into the BSPS2. So, I dont think this 
demonstrates hed have gone against the advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr Z wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against NTMs advice. I say this because Mr Z was an 
inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority 
of Mr Zs retirement provision. So, if NTM had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in their best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Zs concerns about his employer and the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out/was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best 
interests. If NTM had explained that Mr Z could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr Z 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr Z for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that NTM also pay Mr Z £500 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr Z has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. He says that he had been particularly concerned that his pension 
fund goes up and down and this was made much worse by the recent pandemic. This 
would have been particularly worrying given his lower tolerance to risk. And Im conscious 
this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I 
think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr Z, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr Z would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr Z and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
For clarity, Mr Z has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Zs 
acceptance of my decision. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should: 
calculate and offer Mr Z redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr Z before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr Z receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr Z accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr Z for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Zs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr Z as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Zs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
NTM should also pay Mr Z £500 for the distress the unsuitable advice has caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr Z the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr Z the balance.
If Mr Z accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr Z can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr Z may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman