DRN-1038297
 
The complaint
Mr A says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a single premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a loan.
What happened
In 2000 Mr A took out a loan over a 36-month term with HSBC. Its unclear as to how the 
sale took place but, at the same time, it sold him a single premium PPI policy. The cost of 
the premium was added to the loan and interest was charged on it.
The PPI was designed to protect Mr As monthly loan repayments if he couldnt work due to 
disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
HSBC had to explain to Mr A that the PPI was optional and get his agreement to take it. 
Mr A says it didnt do that. I cant say for sure what happened since HSBC doesnt have 
much information from the time of the sale. Although I dont find that surprising given how 
long ago the sale occurred. 
Instead, HSBCs referred us sample documents it says are the same or similar to the ones 
Mr A would have seen around the time of the sale. These include a sample CREDITOR 
PROTECTION DECLARATION which asked the customer to sign separately to confirm 
theyd decided to take PPI. I think its likely the documents Mr A would have seen were the 
same as the sample or similar.
Overall, I think HSBC did enough to make Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and I 
believe hed have agreed to take it out before it was added.
Ive assessed this complaint on the basis HSBC recommended PPI to Mr A. That meant it 
should have looked into whether its recommendation was suitable for him. I dont know if 
HSBC did that but I think such a recommendation was suitable in any case because:
From what Ive seen of his circumstances, Mr A was eligible for the cover. And he 
wasnt affected by the main policy exclusions or restrictions. Although Mr A was self-
employed, Ive checked the policy terms and that wouldnt have made it materially 
more difficult for him to claim than if hed been employed.The PPI would have paid the loan repayments for up to 12 months if Mr A had lost 
his job. And it would potentially have paid disability benefits up to the end of the loan. 
Given Mr A had no other means of making the loan repayment if he wasnt working, I 
think the PPI offered Mr A useful security.
The PPI didnt give a proportional refund of the premium if the loan was cancelled 
early. That meant that it was relatively inflexible, but theres nothing to show Mr A 
wanted, or was likely, to repay the loan early when he took it out. So I dont think this 
feature meant the PPI was unsuitable for him.
 
HSBC also had to give Mr A enough information for him to decide if the PPI was suitable. Its 
not clear exactly what information HSBC gave Mr A, or how well that was explained. But, 
even if HSBC didnt tell Mr A everything it should have, for the same reasons I think the PPI 
was right for him, I dont think better information would have stopped him from buying it.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr As lost out because of how HSBC sold him 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman