DRN-4061042
The complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs C by her Executors, Miss C 
and Mr C, acting under a Grant of Probate issued on 21 July 2022. It is about an equity 
release mortgage taken out by Mrs C (and her husband, who pre-deceased her) with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
Miss C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of the estate, says that, 
although Mrs C passed away on 30 August 2020 and RBS was told about this shortly 
afterwards, it wasnt until January 2022 that she first discovered there was an equity release 
mortgage on the property. RBS gave the estate ten months to repay the mortgage, until 
November 2022. However, the estate would like an extension of time to do this and Miss C 
thinks RBS should waive interest for the period from the date the bank was notified of 
Mrs Cs death.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to the Executors being identified. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. However, he wasnt persuaded that the estate 
would have been in a position to settle the mortgage any sooner.  He noted that, 
notwithstanding the request to extend the deadline to repay until January 2023, as at 
March 2023 the mortgage still hadnt been repaid. As a result, he didnt think there was any 
basis on which interest should be waived. The investigator noted RBS had offered £700 for 
poor customer service, which he thought was fair.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigators outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. She said that the loss to the estate is at least £15,000, and was also unhappy 
that it took five months for the investigator to reach his conclusions, when your own set 
timescales are 8 weeks. 
Miss C says that if the Executors had known about the mortgage sooner, theyd have been 
in a position to act, regardless of whether or not finance was available to clear the debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I would like to express my condolences to Miss C and Mr C on the loss of their 
mother. I have no doubt this has been an upsetting time for the family.
In order to deal with most aspects of a deceased persons estate it is generally necessary for 
the Executors to show they have the legal power to do so, by way of obtaining a Grant of 
Probate issued by the court. Probate gives the Executors the legal power to deal with the 
deceaseds property, money and possessions. Without the Grant of Probate the Executors 
have no legal authorisation to sell the deceaseds property.
The implications of this for this complaint are as follows. Miss C has told us that the 
Executors would have acted sooner to put the property on the market if theyd known in 
2020 that there was a mortgage. 
Miss C has explained there were delays with obtaining the Grant of Probate  partly due to 
one of the Executors changing their mind about wanting to be an Executor, and partly as a 
result of administrative delays at the Probate Registry. Miss C accepts there have been 
delays at our end but fail to see how we can be financially disadvantaged by the RBS delays 
of 15 months plus compound interest.
However, the Executors had no legal power to deal with the estate until Probate had been 
granted  and that wasnt until 21 July 2022, almost two years after Mrs C had passed away.
In the circumstances, even if Miss C had wanted to sell the property in 2020 after Mrs C had 
passed away, or at any point after that up until 21 July 2022, there was no legal power to do 
so. It was only after Probate was granted that the Executors were legally empowered to deal 
with the property.
Ive noted what Miss C has said about the needs of a family member who lives at the 
property, and her distress that no provision was made for that person by her parents. I fully 
understand how upsetting this is for the family. 
The application form from February 2009 shows that Mrs C and her late husband told the 
bank they had no dependants  although they did tell RBS that they had two sons, who were 
both financially independent and that one son was currently living with them, but that he 
wasnt financially dependent on his parents. RBS clarified that he would be required to sign a 
consent form and be given independent legal advice. Miss C wasnt mentioned at all, either 
on the application form or in the letter of advice and recommendation sent by RBS on 
16 February 2009  and there is nothing to suggest this was corrected by Mrs C or her late 
husband. 
Im also satisfied that RBS highlighted before the mortgage was taken out that any other 
person living in the property would not be entitled to continue to live there after the last 
surviving borrower died or went into long-term care, because the property would need to be 
sold. 
It wasnt RBSs responsibility to ensure Mrs C and her late husband made provision for 
family members when they took out the mortgage. In fact, the application form records that 
the bank was told that Mrs C and her late husband were unconcerned about leaving 
anything. 
Mrs C and her late husband were given independent legal advice by their own solicitor 
before taking out the mortgage. RBS was entitled to accept what it had been told by Mrs C 
and her late husband as being accurate and truthful.
I can only suggest that any family member who might feel they have not been provided for 
out of the estate seeks legal advice. Its not something which the Financial Ombudsman 
Service  or RBS  can become involved with as it is a private family matter between the 
beneficiaries of the late Mrs Cs estate.Equally, I cant hold RBS responsible for the delay in obtaining the Grant of Probate  it was 
nothing to do with the bank. It follows, therefore, that there is no basis on which it would be 
fair or reasonable to order RBS to reimburse interest to the estate when the Executors 
werent in a position to be able to sell the property until after July 2022 in any event.
I also note that, although the Executors requested an extension until January 2023 to sell the 
property, that date has now passed and it seems there is no progress in a sale of the 
property. As a last resort, RBS would be entitled to take over a sale of the property if the 
Executors are unable to provide evidence that a sale is progressing. I hope that situation 
doesnt arise, but if they have not already done so, the Executors will need to address their 
minds to putting the property on the market at the earliest opportunity.
RBS offered the Executors £700 for poor customer service. Under our rules, we can make 
awards of compensation for distress and inconvenience to an eligible complainant. Mrs C 
would have been the eligible complainant  as she was the mortgage account holder. The 
Executors are representing her estate, but have no entitlement to be compensated for any 
distress and inconvenience incurred by them personally. In addition, the estate of a 
deceased consumer cant experience feelings of distress or inconvenience. 
It is a matter for the Executors to decide if they want to accept the £700 offered by the bank. 
Whilst I would expect RBS to honour this offer, I have no power to make any award of 
compensation to the Executors for distress and inconvenience arising from poor customer 
service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Executors on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman