DRN-2962988
The complaint
Miss W complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to her.
  
What happened
Miss W took out a loan with Everyday Loans on 31 July 2019. She borrowed £7,100 and 
was due to repay £380.18 monthly for 36 months, until 1 August 2022.
Miss W says that she applied for a loan from Everyday Loans to consolidate debts that had 
arisen following family bereavements. She says she applied in person but when her 
circumstances changed she was no longer able to afford the loan. Miss W says Everyday 
Loans agreed to reduced payments for two months but her circumstances didnt improve 
and she was unable to pay her rent.
Everyday Loans says it verified her job and income, reviewed bank statements, obtained a 
payslip and conducted a credit search. It adds that it used a statistical average to estimate 
her other living expenses and the checks showed the loan was affordable. It says it believes 
its checks were proportionate and the repayments were sustainable over the term of the 
loan.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Everyday 
Loans had enough information to see that Miss W was already over-committed to credit 
repayments and refinancing some of her debts didnt make the new loan sustainable. He 
recommended that any payments made by Miss W should be deducted from the principal 
and that Everyday Loans should attempt to set up a suitable repayment plan for the 
remaining principal. He also said that any adverse information should be removed from her 
credit file.
Everyday Loans responded to say, in summary, that Miss W had a short-term affordability 
issue caused by the recent short-term loans. It said that, whilst its loan increased her 
indebtedness it spread the repayments over a longer period thereby making them affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr K. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement; or
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ws case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ws loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, Everyday Loans has sent evidence that it obtained proof of 
Miss Ws income, checked her credit file and reviewed her bank statements. So Im satisfied 
that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks which showed:
Miss W was using the loan primarily for debt consolidation;
Her average monthly income was around £3,460 and she paid rent of £550;
Miss Ws existing credit included:
oSix loans with a combined balance of around £17,500 and monthly 
repayments totalling £1,311;
oSeven credit cards with a combined balance of £10,350;
oA mail order account with a balance of £1,860;
oAn overdraft approaching £1,900;
oFour short-term loans with three providers.
This meant, in total, Miss W was committed to making credit repayments of almost £2,600 
per month  75% of her income. When taking into account her rent and other regular 
expenditure, Miss Ws expenditure exceeded her income each month.
I can see that over £6,250 of the Everyday Loans money was spent on repaying five of 
Miss Ws loans, which reduced her existing monthly credit repayments by almost £780. As 
her new repayment was £380, I acknowledge that Everyday Loans says its loan addressed a 
short-term issue, but I cant agree this made the loan sustainable for Miss W. I say that 
because:
The loan was over a term of 36 months and Everyday Loans needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Miss W was still committed to using over 60% of her income for credit repayments 
going forwards;
The estimate Everyday Loans used for other regular expenditure does not appear to 
be materially different from what Ive seen in her bank statements and, on that basis, 
Miss W could not afford the repayments on the new loan, despite consolidating five 
of her existing loans;
So, whilst Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks and, indeed, 
the new loan may have improved her financial situation overall, I cant agree that the 
repayments on the loan were sustainable for its 36-month term. Indeed, I note Miss W only 
made the first seven repayments on time.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Miss W and Everyday Loans did not make a 
fair lending decision, although I cant see it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
  
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss W received as a result of having been
given the loan. The repayments Miss W made should be deducted from this
amount.
oIf this results in Miss W having paid more than she received, then any
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss W;
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ws credit file regarding
the loan up until the point of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she 
asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman