DRN-4415847
The complaint
Ms K complains about how Wakam dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy for 
damage to her property from water ingress.  
Wakam use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Wakam 
includes these agents.
Ms K was supported by a representative when bringing her complaint. References to Ms K 
include her representative.
What happened
Early in 2023 Ms K noticed damp spots appearing in the front corner of her living room wall, 
which then developed into bubbling paintwork and crumbling plaster. Ms K was concerned at 
the damage and the rate at which it appeared to be spreading. She contacted a specialist in 
water damage to inspect the affected areas and determine the cause of the problem. They 
advised the issue as a water ingress, caused by a defective/damaged gutter on an adjoining 
neighbours porch canopy roof that abutted Ms Ks property. The specialist said the damage 
could lead to the development of dry rot. 
Ms K contacted Wakam (February 2023) and set out the nature of the problem and the 
damage. When asked when shed first noticed the problem, Ms K said early to mid-January 
2023. Wakam told Ms K the damage wouldnt be covered under the policy, as they didnt 
consider it to be caused by storm or flooding or (because there wasnt a one-off event) 
accidental damage. Wakam also told Ms K that accidental damage meant loss or damage 
caused by the policyholder (Ms K) or their family. And that the policy didnt cover water 
entering the property by any means other than storms or floods (or any damage arising from 
a lack of preventative maintenance). So, there wasnt an insured peril under the policy.
Ms K challenged Wakams position, asking whether, if a storm had damaged the neighbours 
gutter and led to flooding (or water build up) to ingress into her property, would this be 
covered under the storm or flood section of the policy. Wakam replied to say their weather 
data didnt indicate a storm in the area of  Ms Ks property prior to the damage appearing.
Ms K wasnt satisfied with Wakams response so (given Wakam had said they were ceasing 
to provide insurance policies from May 2023) she complained to this service (having not had 
a response from Wakam to her challenge). She wasnt happy with how Wakam had 
responded to her claim, nor their refusal to send a loss adjuster to her property. And the 
damage was getting worse with each rainfall. She wanted Wakam to repair her property.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint, concluding Wakam hadnt acted fairly. He 
thought the damage wouldnt be considered as storm damage, as the weather data around 
the time of the damage indicated there wasnt a storm. And the damage wouldnt fall under 
the policy definition of accidental damage. However, water had entered Ms Ks property and 
would fall within what this service considers flood damage, as water had built up (regardless 
of where it came from). Nor did it matter whether it was caused by a natural event. So, 
Wakam should pay the claim in line with the policy terms (and had the opportunity to reclaim 
the cost from the neighbours insurer). Wakam should also pay £100 compensation for 
unfairly declining the claim.
Wakam disagreed with the investigators initial view, as the policy definition of flood referred 
to an overflow of external water sources  it was due to the neighbours canopy allowing 
water to ingress into Ms Ks property.
Our investigator considered Wakams response and issued a second in which they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Wakam had referred to the policy definition and the investigator 
accepted Wakams view the definition didnt cover the circumstances of the case. And this 
services approach to flood damage was where a policy hadnt defined the term flood (which 
Wakam had shown it did). 
Ms K disagreed with the investigators second view and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She thought Wakams policy definition including the phrase overflow of 
externa water sources was ambiguous as the definition then listed some examples of a 
water source  but it wasnt an exhaustive list. So, the language used was unclear. Ms K 
referred to legal cases covering situations where contractual terms were either exhaustive or 
non-exhaustive. Ms K considered the wording of the definition to be non-exhaustive and that 
external water source would encompass water entering from the neighbours canopy. Ms K 
also referred to the legal principle of contra proferentem which meant that where a policy 
was unclear, it should be interpreted in favour of the policyholder. Ms K was also concerned 
that the damage to her property was worsening over time.
In my findings, I concluded the claim wouldnt fall under the accidental damage section of the 
policy. And as there were no indications there was a storm, I also concluded the storm 
section of the policy wouldnt apply.
I then considered whether the claim could fall under the flood section of the policy. I 
concluded the damage from water ingress from the neighbours canopy could reasonably be 
held to fall within the policy definition of flood. That being the case, I concluded Wakam 
acted unfairly in declining Ms Ks claim.
Having reached this conclusion, I considered what Wakam should do to put things right. As 
theyd unfairly declined the claim, I thought they should settle the claim in accordance with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including  any policy excess.
As I concluded theyd unfairly declined the claim, and from what Ms K told us, I thought 
shed suffered distress and inconvenience. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I 
thought £100 for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Wakam has acted fairly towards Ms K.
The main element of Ms Ks complaint is that Wakam unfairly declined her claim, on the 
grounds that the damage to her property was covered by an insured peril, either storm or 
flood, or accidental damage. Ms K says her claim should be considered under the flood 
section, given what she feels is ambiguity in the definition of the term flood. She thinks the 
definition would include her situation, where water is entering her property from a neighbours canopy. Wakam say the damage doesnt fall under any of the sections of the 
policy, including that for flood.
In considering the complaint, Ive first noted there isnt any dispute that the cause of the 
damage to Ms Ks property is water overflowing from a neighbours canopy. This was the 
conclusion of the specialist in water damage engaged by Ms K to inspect her property. And 
Ive not seen anything to indicate Wakam dispute the specialists conclusions. 
So, the issue becomes one of whether the damage would fall under one of the insured perils 
under the policy. In declining the claim, Wakam refer to the following policy terms and 
exclusions. With respect to accidental damage, the relevant policy section states:
Accidental damage is sudden, unexpected loss or damage that you or your family 
did cause, albeit unintentionally
Looking at the definition, I dont think the circumstances of Ms Ks claim (the damage) would 
fall under the term. The damage wasnt caused by Ms K or her family (it was the neighbours 
canopy) and (arguably) it wasnt sudden as it occurred over a period.
So, Ive concluded the claim wouldnt fall under the accidental damage section of the policy.
With respect to storm or flood, Wakam refer to the following exclusion in the policy:
We wont cover water entering your home by any means other than storms or floods 
 or any damage arising from a lack of preventative maintenance.
Ive then considered each of the two elements included in the exclusion  storm or flood. 
Taking storm first, Wakam say there werent any storm conditions in the area of Ms Ks 
property around the time Ms K says she first noticed the damage. This is based on data from 
a recognised weather source.  Ive checked the data for the area using the weather source 
used by this service and this also indicates no storms in the area around the time of the 
incident (even allowing for Ms K not being certain when the damage first occurred). 
So, as there are no indications there was a storm, then Ive concluded the storm section of 
the policy wouldnt apply.
This then leaves the option of flood. When disagreeing with our investigators first view, 
Wakam said water ingressing into Ms Ks property from the neighbours canopy wouldnt fall 
within the definition of flood in the policy, which they say is:
An overflow of external water sources, such as rivers, lakes, and the sea.
Ms K says this definition isnt clear and is non-exhaustive, given the use of the term such 
as. Which means the listed sources are not exhaustive (so dont preclude other external 
water sources). Ms K refers to legal cases on this point where contractual terms were either 
exhaustive or non-exhaustive. Ms K considers the wording of the definition to be non-
exhaustive and that external water sources would encompass water entering from the 
neighbours canopy. Ms K also referred to the legal principle of contra proferentem which 
means where a policy is unclear, it should be interpreted in favour of the policyholder.
Ive considered both views carefully, but I agree with Ms Ks view. Use of the term such as 
can reasonably be held to mean the sources that follow are not exhaustive, rather they are 
illustrative. So, the question then becomes one of whether the term external water sources 
can reasonably be held to include the situation in this case, where the water is entering from a neighbours canopy. I think it does, as its clearly external (as its from the neighbours 
property). It obviously is water and a source. 
While I think the term can reasonably be applied to water ingressing from the neighbours 
canopy, I also agree that the term could also be seen as ambiguous, as the term source 
isnt defined. And I agree with Ms Ks view, which is where there is ambiguity in a contract 
(an insurance policy is a contract) it should be interpreted in favour of the party that didnt 
draft it. Which in the case of an insurance policy would be the policyholder.
So, Ive concluded the damage from water ingress from the neighbours canopy could 
reasonably be held to fall within the policy definition of flood. That being the case, Ive 
concluded Wakam acted unfairly in declining Ms Ks claim.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive considered what Wakam should do to put things right. 
As theyve unfairly declined the claim, they should settle the claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including (as appropriate) any policy excess.
As theyve unfairly declined the claim, and from what Ms K has told us, I think shes suffered 
distress and inconvenience. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think £100 for 
distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision that I uphold Ms Ks complaint. I 
intend to require Wakam to:
Settle the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including (as appropriate) any policy excess.
Pay Ms K £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Wakam must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Ms K 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Both Ms K and Wakam responded to accept the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Wakam have acted fairly towards Ms K.
As both Ms K and Wakam have accepted my provisional decision, then my final decision is 
unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold Ms Ks complaint. I require 
Wakam to:
Settle the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including (as appropriate) any policy excess.
Pay Ms K £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Wakam must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Ms K 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman