DRN-3919973
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) terminated her 
claim under her income protection policy.
What happened
Ms H was the beneficiary of a group income protection policy (the policy) with L&G. The 
policy was provided through her employer and carried a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In 2014 Ms H was signed off work with severe depression and anxiety due to work related 
stress. This followed a whistle-blowing incident where Ms H raised concerns about how her 
employer was conducting certain aspects of its business. 
Later in 2014, following the deferred period, L&G accepted the claim for depression and 
anxiety and benefit payments started from October 2014. 
Benefit continued until October 2020 when L&G terminated Ms Hs claim. It had asked an 
independent medical examiner (IME), a Consultant Psychiatrist, to assess Ms H and 
following his report, L&G took the decision to stop making payments. It wasnt satisfied, 
based on the information it had received, that Ms H still met the policy terms related to 
incapacity.
Ms H complained and instructed a solicitor to support her to challenge L&Gs position, but 
L&Gs position remained unchanged.  
Ms H remained unhappy so referred her complaint to this Service.
An investigator here looked into Ms Hs case and upheld her complaint. She wasnt satisfied 
L&G had correctly terminated Ms Hs claim and she thought the benefit payments should be 
reinstated. She referenced testimony from Ms H about the on-going difficulties she was 
experiencing.
L&G disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the terms of the policy Ms H benefitted from, along with the obligations 
placed on L&G by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to handle claims promptly and 
fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint as my findings differed from that of our 
investigator. I invited the parties to provide me with any further information they wanted me 
to consider. In my provisional decision, which forms part of this decision, I said:
I would like to reassure the parties Ive read and carefully considered all the information 
available to me, but I intend to focus on the aspects of this complaint I consider most 
relevant to the outcome Ive reached. And for the avoidance of doubt, Im looking at the 
period from when Ms H became unable to work in 2014 to the time L&G issued its final 
response letter in April 2021.
Im not a doctor, so its not for me to overlay my own opinion of Ms Hs health but to 
determine if, based on the information available to it, L&Gs decision to terminate Ms Hs 
claim is a reasonable one. And I think it was. Let me explain.
Ms H was insured under own occupation terms  which in my experience, generally means 
the generic duties of the occupation listed on the policy schedule, rather than the 
policyholders specific job.
The policy terms say:
own occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury 
that prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately 
before the start of the deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own 
occupation will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to 
him.
Im aware Ms Hs employment ended in 2017 but there was continued acceptance of her 
claim while she remained incapacitated.
Ms Hs claim was accepted following a diagnosis of severe depression and anxiety. And to 
terminate Ms Hs claim, the onus is on L&G to show that she no longer met the policy terms 
for incapacity.
Amongst other information, L&G have relied on the following:
Ms H appears not to have been receiving active medical treatment for depression and 
anxiety from late 2018 until October 2020 when L&G terminated the claim.
A report from an occupational therapist who assessed Ms H in November 2019 shows that 
although Ms H was still reporting symptoms of depression and anxiety, overall, in the opinion 
of the occupational therapist, her symptoms didnt prevent her from returning to work.  
But given Ms H was still reporting symptoms of depression and anxiety, L&G instructed an 
independent medical expert, a Consultant Psychiatrist, to assess her. 
In April 2020, the IME met Ms H and in his subsequent report he said, there is currently no 
convincing evidence of any psychiatric reason that would impair functioning to prevent Ms H 
from working in her usual employment.
When Ms H challenged L&Gs position, the IME was asked to conduct a review of further 
evidence submitted by Ms H. The IMEs opinion didnt change.  He reported that there is 
no additional informationthat would meet diagnostic criteria for specific mental illness, and 
be associated with specific functional impairment preventing Ms H performing her role.
Based on this information, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to conclude that Ms Hs 
mental health did not prevent her from returning to work. 
I am aware Ms H may have been receiving some informal psychotherapeutic support, but even if that were the case, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to place more weight on 
the IMEs assessments when making its decision.
I am aware that during her claim, Ms H experienced several physical health problems 
including undergoing foot surgery in 2017, reports of a fall, and widespread musculoskeletal 
pain. Ive thought carefully about whether L&Gs decision to terminate her claim, despite her 
physical symptoms, is a reasonable one. 
Again, the evidence provided to L&G doesnt support Ms Hs position that these physical 
conditions prevented her from returning to work. She was self-managing her symptoms with 
yoga and meditation and had been discharged from various medical services by the time 
L&G terminated her claim.
In summary Im satisfied, based on the information provided to me, that L&Gs decision to 
terminate Ms Hs claim in October 2020 was reasonable.
L&G accepted my provisional decision, but Ms H did not. She asked me to reconsider my 
findings and provided some further information for me to consider. This additional 
information included, but was not limited to, detailed representations from her daughter, 
screen shots of her diary showing psychotherapy appointments, a report from her 
psychotherapist, and a letter from a psychiatrist she saw briefly in 2019.  
I have considered this information in detail and revisited the information previously provided 
to me by the parties. I understand Ms H will be very disappointed, but this new information 
doesnt change my overall thoughts on the outcome of this complaint. Im not persuaded the 
new information undermines the IMEs report or means it should be set aside. 
From the diary evidence Ms H has recently provided, I can see the sessions with the 
psychotherapist had been taking place for some while but varied in frequency. During 
2019 and into 2020, therapy sessions appear sporadic. 
I have not dismissed the psychotherapists opinion or testimony  I have read his 
most recent report thoroughly. But I consider it reasonable for L&G to rely on the 
report from the independent Psychiatrist who assessed Ms H in April 2020. The 
Psychiatrists opinion was requested by L&G, but Im satisfied he is an independent 
Consultant Psychiatrist, and his report has been provided on that basis. I think its 
reasonable for L&G to place more weight on this report from an independent 
Consultant Psychiatrist than on other evidence available from that time.
Ive also carefully considered the letter from the Consultant Psychiatrist Ms H briefly 
saw in 2019. In his letter he confirms that although he considered Ms H not stable 
during his last consultation with her in August 2019, he said he cannot comment on 
her mental health or management after that time. The assessment by the IME was 
eight months later.
I am sorry to read of the many difficult situations Ms H has faced, including those during her 
childhood and the breakdown of her relationship. But as Ive said, Im not a doctor and its 
not my role to decide if Ms H met the definition of incapacity when L&G terminated her 
claim. Its to decide if it was unreasonable for L&G to do so, and based on the information 
presented to me, I dont think it was.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman