DRN-3449173
The complaint
Ms H complains about Rapid Accident Management Legal Services limited (RAM) and the 
way theyve handled her claim that was submitted to the Criminal Injuries Compensation 
Authority (CICA).
What happened
In 2017, Ms H was involved in an incident that left her with physical injuries. So, in October 
2019, Ms H instructed RAM to pursue a claim with CICA on her behalf.
RAM submitted a claim to CICA, which was rejected initially due to the length of time that 
had passed since the incident itself. RAM appealed this decision with Ms Hs authority, and 
they sought Ms Hs medical records while this appeal was ongoing. But Ms H was unhappy, 
so she raised a complaint. 
Ms H thought RAM had requested her medical records without her consent. She was 
unhappy that records from 2014 onwards were requested, when she only authorised RAM to 
obtain her records relating directly to her injuries in 2017. And she was unhappy RAM were 
unable to show her where the records from 2014 were requested. Ms H was also unhappy 
with the progress of her claim and questioned RAMs regulatory status. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for the upset shed been caused. Ms H didnt feel like she received an 
adequate response from RAM, so she referred her complaint to us.
RAM responded explaining they didnt feel as though theyd had a chance to respond to Ms 
Hs full complaint. But in their reply to our service, they explained their belief that theyd 
acted fairly and in Ms Hs best interests when requesting her medical records to ensure her 
claim was progressed effectively. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it initially. They thought RAM had the 
necessary authorisation to request Ms Hs medical records from earlier than 2017. So, they 
didnt think they could say RAM had acted unfairly when doing so. But they didnt think 
theyd seen evidence that showed RAM had explained why they wanted these earlier 
records reasonably. They also explained from the system notes they had seen, they couldnt 
say RAM had progressed Ms Hs claim after October 2020 until September 2021. So, our 
investigator thought RAM should pay Ms H £250 to recognise any upset shed been caused 
by the delays and lack of explanation recorded the medical record request.
Ms H agreed. But RAM didnt. RAM provided further information, including additional system 
notes and recordings of phone conversations between themselves and Ms H which they felt 
showed her claim was progressed fairly and that explanations regarding the medical records 
were provided. Our investigator considered this information and changed their view based 
on this, explaining they now didnt think they could say RAM acted unfairly or unreasonably 
and so, they didnt think RAM needed to pay the £250 they originally recommended.
Ms H didnt agree. She was unhappy that our investigator changed their view after further 
information from RAM. She explained she hadnt heard from RAM for over a year and so, 
maintained her belief her claim hadnt been progressed reasonably. As Ms H didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms H. I understand the 
incident that caused Ms Hs injuries, and so the claim she asked RAM to pursue, wouldve 
been upsetting and painful both physically and mentally. And I appreciate Ms H instructed 
RAM to pursue the claim on her behalf to help alleviate any further stress she may have 
been caused having to deal with CICA directly. So, when this claim didnt progress as Ms H 
expected, or provide the outcome she was hoping for, I can understand why Ms H would 
look to RAM and feel as though this failure resulted from the service they provided. And I 
can appreciate why, based on this, Ms H may feel as though RAM should compensate her 
for this.
But for me to say RAM should compensate Ms H, Id first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to see evidence to show they failed to work within the terms 
of the agreement Ms H entered into. Or, if I think they did work within these, that they acted 
unfairly when doing so. And that the decisions RAM made had a negative impact on the 
outcome of Ms Hs claim with CICA. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
Within the terms of the agreement Ms H entered into, it states the following:
We must always act in your best interests in pursuing your claim for compensation and 
obtain for you the best possible results subject to our duty to the rules and principles of 
professional conduct. We must explain to you the risks and benefits of taking or continuing to 
take or take any steps; we must give you our best advice about whether to accept any 
award.
So, first of all, I need to be satisfied that RAM requesting Ms Hs medical records from 2014 
was in Ms Hs best interests, to obtain the best possible result from the claim. And as the 
claim expert, I think RAM were able to decide, within reason, what information they required. 
RAM have explained they requested this information in preparation for CICAs response to 
their appeal, to prevent any further delays should the appeal be successful. As Ms H claim 
related to injuries she sustained, I think RAM would always have needed to request Ms Hs 
medical records. And I dont think RAM were unreasonable to pre-empt CICA requesting 
medical records from before the incident, as there was a chance CICA would want to clarify 
that the injuries Ms H referred to hadnt been found or diagnosed before. So, I think RAMs 
request was made in Ms Hs best interests to obtain the best possible result and because of 
this, I cant say they acted unfairly when doing so.
But the terms also make it clear that RAM needed to explain the risks and benefits of the 
steps they take. So, Ive thought about whether I think they did. Ive listened to the call 
recordings of conversations Ms H held with RAM. And I think on these calls, it was made 
reasonably clear that RAM were intending to make a bulk request for Ms Hs medical 
records. While it wasnt made explicitly clear exactly what time frame this request would 
cover, I think it was clear that the request would be a substantial one. If Ms H had any concerns about medical records from before the incident being requested, I wouldve 
expected these concerns to have been raised on these calls. But I cant hear that they were. 
And even so, its since been confirmed that CICA have rejected Ms Hs appeal regarding the 
timescales she had to raise a claim to them and so, the merits of her claim and the medical 
information RAM requested havent been considered. So, Ms Hs claim hasnt been 
impacted by the medical records RAM obtained. So, while I appreciate Ms Hs concern 
about the impact these records may have had, the fact is they havent had any impact on 
this occasion. I think RAM acted in line with the terms of the agreement, with Ms Hs best 
interests in mind. So, Im unable to say theyve acted unfairly here.
Ive then turned to the progression of Ms Hs claim. And I recognise at the time Ms H raised 
her complaint with our service, her claim had been ongoing almost a year without any 
success. And I appreciate it took a significant amount of time for RAM to successful obtain 
Ms Hs medical records from her doctors practice as well as police reports regarding the 
incident. But for me to say RAM should compensate Ms H for this, Id need to be satisfied 
RAM were responsible for these delays. And I dont think they were.
Ive seen RAMs file notes from the day they were instructed up until earlier this year. And I 
think RAM have proactively chased Ms Hs doctors practice and the relevant police 
departments on several occasions with most of the delays being caused by RAM receiving 
no meaningful response to their requests. And I dont think it would be fair for me to hold 
them responsible for this. 
I can see RAM submitted Ms Hs original claim within a reasonable amount of time from 
instruction. And they ensured Ms Hs appeal to CICAs original rejection was placed in time 
to ensure an appeal was considered. And while I appreciate Ms H says shes received no 
contact from RAM in over a year, Ive seen notes that show Ms H has been updated on the 
progress of her claim on several occasions both by phone and by letter. And Ive seen 
copies of these letters, which show they were sent to the same address we hold for Ms H on 
our file. So, while I recognise Ms H may not have received these, I dont think this is because 
of anything RAM have done wrong. 
So, I think RAM progressed Ms Hs claim fairly and kept her updated as Id expect them to 
do. And because of this, I dont think RAM need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms H hoped for. And I recognise Ms Hs appeal with 
CICA has been unsuccessful, which will have been very disappointing for her. But Im unable 
to say this is because of anything RAM did wrong during the lifetime of the claim. I also 
recognise Ms H has disputed the authorisation status of RAM and I appreciate there are 
different regulators for different sectors within the UK which may have caused confusion. But 
I can confirm for our service to consider Ms Hs complaint about RAM, they must be 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. And Im satisfied they are. So, theyre 
regulated to pursue a claim on Ms Hs behalf as long as Ms H provided them with her 
authority to do so, which has never been in dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint about Rapid Accident 
Management Legal Services limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman