DRN-3540030
The complaint
Mrs A complains Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, (Transact) 
caused her loss by failures in its duties relating to a 2012 corporate action.
What happened
Mrs A held on Transacts platform non-voting shares in a fund Ill call X. Transact was 
registered as the legal owner of the shares.
X was a fund legally based in the Marshall Islands and investing in UK property.
In May 2012 the operator of X sent Transact a notice, saying it intended to restructure X 
by merging it into a new company. According to the notice, more and final details of this 
corporate action were expected in four weeks or so with it completing some months later. 
The notice said the redemption period for shares was being immediately extended to 
almost a year. Transact didnt pass on this notice to Mrs A or her advisers.
At the end of August 2012 Transact was notified of the details of the restructure. There 
would be a merger and Mrs As shares in X would be exchanged for bonds issued by the 
new company. Transact sent notice of this to the adviser it had on its records as being 
Mrs As adviser. Transact did this in September 2012. The restructure completed later.
Mrs A has said the bonds she received became virtually worthless. 
In support of her complaint, Mrs A has made a number of points including, in brief and in 
summary:
Although her shares didnt give her a vote on the restructure, Marshall Islands law gave 
her a right to object to it and to receive instead a fair value for her shares. If Transact had 
done more earlier to inform her about the restructure and advise her of her options, she 
wouldve been able to exercise and enforce this right and avoid the loss that arose.
The restructure left her with a riskier asset and she believes Transact ought to have 
assessed its appropriateness for her.
The May 2012 notice was news of a fundamental change to her investment and Transact 
shouldve passed this on to her.
In 2011 Transact added a new adviser account to its records but the party behind this 
request wasnt Mrs As adviser firm or authorised to act for it. So Transact incorrectly 
amended its records. As a result the email address on its file to which it sent notification 
of the August 2012 notice wasnt an email address for Mrs As adviser. So Transact did 
not notify Mrs As adviser. Mrs A says Transacts use of a different reference number for 
the new adviser account and the use of the number 2 after the name of the adviser firm 
means this was a new adviser and not just a second account for an existing adviser. The 
form for the second account was signed by a director of Xs operator and the email 
address on the form was one used by other firms on Transacts records.
Our investigator considered Mrs As complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Our 
investigator thought, in summary and in brief:
Transact wasnt wrong to not pass on to Mrs A the May 2012 notice and to wait instead, 
given that nothing had been finalised, details werent provided, timeframes werent given 
and more information was to follow.
Transacts terms didnt promise it would pass on details of corporate actions, and said it 
was for consumers and their advisers to monitor these. But Transact was right to decide 
to pass on to Mrs A information it received in August 2012 with details of the restructure 
 and it did this correctly.
Adviser firms could have more than one adviser account with Transact, so the adding of 
a new account and the use of a new reference number didnt mean the details added 
didnt relate to an existing account  and the use of the number 2 denoted a second 
account for an existing adviser, not a new or different business. The person who signed 
the form was on the financial services register as carrying out a director function at that 
adviser firm, so Transact wasnt wrong to act on that request and it was wrong to say 
that the email address on the form wasnt one for Mrs As adviser.
Transact wasnt wrong not to investigate Mrs As options or any legal implications of the 
2012 corporate action.
The bonds resulting from the restructure were not a new holding Transact was accepting 
onto its platform, but a change to an existing holding. So Transact didnt have to assess 
the bonds for appropriateness. Also, Mrs As account wasnt a SIPP so considerations 
specific to SIPPs didnt apply. 
Earlier notification by Transact to Mrs As adviser of the contents of the May 2012 notice 
is unlikely to have made a difference to her loss in any event. Exiting the investment at 
that stage wouldnt have been easy, even with a desire to do so and earlier knowledge of 
the content of the notices. The redemption period had been extended so that requests 
made since for redemptions wouldnt take place before the restructure happened  and 
none had taken place as our investigator understood it. Requests submitted after the 
restructure werent fulfilled either, from what had been said. Mrs A hadnt tried any legal 
means to recover value after the merger. If she had done so before the merger, it is far 
from certain she wouldve succeeded or what she might have got back if she had.
Mrs A didnt wish to accept our investigators opinion and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. She said the investment was a normal transaction within her portfolio, not a 
gamble, and she was disappointed with our investigators opinion. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are the same as our investigators and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive summarised my reasons, briefly, below.
Id mention Ive not considered what Transact should or shouldnt have done, or known, 
when Mrs A made the investment or its due diligence in accepting it onto its platform at that 
time  so if Mrs A had concerns about those events, shed have to raise them with Transact 
separately and Ive not considered whether that could fall within our jurisdiction now. 
Ive not considered any of that here because, from how shes described her complaint, Mrs A 
isnt complaining about her initial investment in X and Im being asked to decide matters 
solely related to the 2012 restructure.
With that in mind, Im not persuaded the specific findings from the court case mentioned by 
Mrs A relating to SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs, apply here. Mrs As 
complaint is not about Transact accepting a new investment onto its platform but about the 
restructuring of an investment already held on its platform. Also the investment here wasnt 
held within a SIPP.
Transact had to comply with the FCAs high level principles. So, amongst other things, in 
carrying out its roles it had to pay due regard to Mrs As interests, treat her fairly, pay due 
regard to her information needs and give information to her in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules. The client's best 
interests rule, COBS 2.1.1R, says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions.
The May 2012 notice  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure was 
sought and that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within 
the next four to six weeks and that a new company should be listed a few months after that.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Transact to wait for more details rather than 
forwarding on to Mrs A the May 2012 notice or all or part of the information it contained. 
There was no detail about precisely what was going to take place, nor specific timings. I note 
that investors wouldnt have been able to redeem their holdings ahead of the action anyway, 
given the extended redemption period and what the notice said about general timescales.
When in August 2012 Transact received details of exactly what would happen, it did decide 
to pass these on. Taking into account what Transacts terms said, and even though Mrs A 
didnt have a right to vote on the restructure, I think Transact was right to decide to pass this 
on, bearing in mind its obligations.
Mrs A doesnt agree Transact informed her, through her adviser, of the notice. But from what 
Ive seen I think Transact did pass on the details correctly using an email address for Mrs As 
adviser. I say this having considered carefully all that has been said about email addresses and the 
adviser account added in 2011. In short, I dont agree with what Mrs A has said about those 
interactions indicating that the business behind them was not the adviser business that 
Transact thought it was. In my view it was fair and reasonable for Transact to do what it did 
in September 2012 and forward details of the corporate action notice to the email address it 
used. Im not persuaded that as a result of this Mrs As adviser at the time wasnt aware of 
the plans and points of action outlined in the August 2012 notice.
So I think by doing what it did Transact did enough to communicate the August 2012 details 
to Mrs As adviser. In my view it was reasonable for Transact to decide to communicate with 
Mrs A about the August 2012 notice by communicating with the adviser she had registered 
on its system.
The notice was information about what would be a substantial change to Mrs As investment. 
But I dont think Transact needed to do more than it did. It had no obligation to provide 
advice or recommend a particular course of action. It was for Mrs A, and her adviser, to 
consider the implications, decide what to do and look into it further if needed.
So I dont think Transact ought to have investigated what further implications the proposed 
action might have in future for the investment or for Mrs A as an investor. Nor do I think that 
Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of the bonds Mrs A received or was to 
receive, bearing in mind this wasnt a new investment but an alteration to an existing one.
In saying this I note the notice about the restructure didnt outline or offer any way for Mrs A 
to avoid having her shares exchanged for the bonds through the restructure, and she didnt 
have a vote on whether it went through. Other rights or legal options Mrs A might have had 
in relation to the restructure, that arose from her status as a shareholder rather than from the 
restructure proposals themselves - for example as a result of the company law governing the 
fund in the territory in which it was legally based - were rights or options that it was for her or 
her adviser to explore and consider. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect 
Transact to have investigated, considered or advised Mrs A about wider rights of that kind.
In saying this, I take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mrs As investment and, as the registered legal owner 
of the shares, it was safeguarding Mrs As investment by acting as custodian. So Transact 
had to keep Mrs As investment safe. But I dont think this means it had to explore or advise 
her on how to get out of the investment if she wasnt happy with how it might change as a 
result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action.
So I dont think Transact did anything wrong in how it dealt with the notices it received  and 
I dont think it needed to do more than it did. It follows that I dont think any losses Mrs A 
suffered on her investment were losses caused by failings by Transact in how it dealt with 
things at the time of the notices and the restructure.
Id add that if Mrs A had been told of the restructure proposals by Transact earlier or in a 
different way, Im not persuaded the likely result wouldve been her either successfully 
redeeming her investment or, by enforcing rights arising in Marshall Islands law, securing in 
the UK courts an award by virtue of which she was likely to successfully recover a payment 
to reduce her losses.
I say this bearing in mind Ive nothing to suggest anyone requesting a redemption after the 
May 2012 announcement successfully redeemed their investment before the restructure 
took effect. Also theres no suggestion Mrs A requested a redemption upon having been 
made aware of the restructure. Also I bear in mind Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs A or her adviser, upon becoming aware 
of the merger, raised any points about Mrs A having lost rights by virtue of not having been 
able to dissent in the way Mrs A has since described. So its not at all obvious that Mrs A or 
her adviser were aware of any such legal rights and Ive nothing to suggest Mrs A wouldve 
been likely to attempt to enforce those rights at that time.
Overall I dont consider there was anything Transact was obliged to do in 2012 by virtue of 
which Mrs A wouldve been able to avoid the forced conversion of her investment and the 
losses she says arose as a result of that conversion.
So although, given what happened here and the losses she suffered, I am very sympathetic 
to Mrs As situation, I havent identified any basis for saying Transacts actions in connection 
with the 2012 restructure caused or ought to make it responsible for those losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman