DRN-2724661
The complaint
Mrs M, as the director of M, complains that American International Group UK Limited unfairly 
declined Ms claim for losses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
M has the benefit of a commercial insurance policy underwritten by American International 
Group UK Limited (AIG). M closed its businesses in March 2020 due to the national 
government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of COVID-19. A claim was 
made on the policy for the loss of income resulting from this. 
Much of the correspondence in relation to this matter was between the administrator of the 
policy and Mr M. However, as AIG are responsible for the relevant decision and Mr M is not 
a director of M, I have just referred to AIG and Mrs M in this decision as though all 
representations have been their own. 
AIG declined the claim. It said that whilst the policy did provide cover in relation to certain 
diseases, this was limited to a specified set of diseases and this did not include COVID-19. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld though. He agreed that the 
policy covered only a specific list of diseases and that, as COVID-19 was not included in that 
list, AIGs decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. Mrs M remained unsatisfied. 
Her main arguments are that it is not clear that the definition of Disease in the policy should 
apply to the relevant clause and that, even if it does, this definition includes SARS. Mrs M 
considers that the use of SARS in this definition should be interpreted as a broad term, so as 
to include all types of coronavirus. She believes that this means the policy is ambiguous and 
so should be interpreted in favour of the party that did not write it; i.e. M. 
As such, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on M. But for 
substantially the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The type of cover M is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy M had.
As such, Ive considered every aspect of the policy M holds with AIG to determine whether 
there are any sections that would require AIG to meet a claim like the one M is making. 
Having done so, I dont think there are.
Ms policy provides cover for loss of income as a result of several things. The main business 
interruption section, along with a number of the additional covers to this section, effectively 
requires there to have been damage to property which caused the interruption. COVID-19 
didnt cause damage to property. And, whilst M has no doubt suffered a loss of income, this 
was not in consequence of a loss of any property. 
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the COVID-19 pandemic and 
required certain businesses, including Ms, to close. COVID-19 is an infectious disease. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension to 
the business interruption section of the policy in relation to Infectious Diseases. Mrs M has 
also focussed her arguments around this extension. 
This extension provides cover in relation to business interruption losses caused by:
closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any 
government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) 
manifested by any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of 
the Premises

The term Disease in this clause is capitalised, indicating it has a specific meaning within 
this section of the policy. The section definitions say, in part, the following:
These definitions apply to this Section wherever these words or phrases appear with 
an upper case letter except where otherwise stated

Disease
means any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis 
acute infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism 
brucellosis cholera diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food poisoning 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) infectious bloody diarrhoea invasive group A 
streptococcal disease legionellosis leprosy malaria measles meningococcal 
septicaemia mumps plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet fever smallpox tetanus 
tuberculosis typhus viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping cough and yellow 
fever
So, this means where the term Disease is used in upper case within the section it refers to 
one (or a number) of the diseases in the specified list. The Infectious Diseases extension 
uses the term Disease in upper case, so I consider this clause provides cover in relation to 
the manifestation of one (or a number) of these diseases. 
I do note that the use of the term Disease in the extension is accompanied by further 
wording  both human infectious or human contagious and the references to AIDS and 
AIDS-related conditions. Given the types of disease in the list are all likely to be either 
infectious or contagious and they would need to be sustained by a person, and that AIDS is 
not included in the specified list, this wording might be unnecessary. But I dont think this makes the meaning of the clause unclear. Or that this means the section definition of 
Disease no longer applies.
Mrs M has also said that if the definition does apply to the extension, the inclusion of SARS 
in the specified list should be read as a generic term for all coronaviruses including 
COVID-19. However, as the investigator has set out, both the UK Government and the 
World Health Organisation consider SARS and COVID-19 to be separate, distinct diseases. 
Given SARS is its own disease, I dont think the definition can be reasonably read as to 
interpret this as an umbrella term. 
And I dont think a court would consider the term to be ambiguous or that it would be 
necessary to apply the doctrine of contra proferentem, which Mrs M has said should be 
applied. I think the definition and the extension are fully capable of being understood without 
needing to be apply this doctrine. 
I consider that the extension provides cover relating to a specified list of diseases. And 
COVID-19 is not one of the diseases listed in the definition. When reaching this finding Im 
mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it 
might not have been possible for AIG to include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I 
dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think AIG intended to, or suggested 
they would, provide cover for all diseases. AIG deliberately chose to define Disease by 
reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy, which there could have been if that was what 
AIG wanted to cover, that implies it provides cover for other diseases, including any new 
diseases which might emerge generally, or new diseases added to the Governments 
notifiable diseases list from time to time. 
There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover. I dont think 
the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of 
the defined list set out above. I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover 
in the event of the specified diseases listed in the definition of Disease.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ms claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by Covid-19, I am satisfied AIGs decision to decline the claim under this 
term was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. 
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ms policy. But I dont consider Ms claim 
ought to have been met under any of them. So, having considered all the circumstances of 
this case, whilst I am sorry for the position M finds itself in, I am persuaded AIGs decision 
not to meet Ms claim was fair and reasonable.
I know this decision will be disappointing for Mrs M, but I hope Ive provided her with a 
thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Ms claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman