DRN-2418261
The complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked transactions on his debit card and later 
insisted that he visit a local branch before theyd issue a replacement card.
What happened
Mr E says payments on his debit card were blocked by HSBCs fraud team for no good 
reason.
He says HSBC initially offered to send a replacement card but later refused to do so unless 
and until he visited a local branch with photographic proof of identification. He says the 
branch was some distance from him and this caused him considerable inconvenience.
Mr E complained to HSBC. And when they didnt uphold his complaint, he brought it to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr E disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that a transaction on Mr Es card was blocked because it triggered a 
potential fraud flag with HSBC.
Mr E says he cant see any good reason for the flag to be triggered or for HSBC to block the 
transaction.
Im sure Mr E will appreciate why HSBC arent completely open with members of the public 
about what might trigger a fraud alert when a transaction is attempted. And Im sure hell 
appreciate why we cant set out the detail of what triggered the fraud alert in his case in a 
published decision like this.
Fraud prevention systems like this work on algorithms which take into account a number of 
factors. HSBC have already explained to Mr E that these might include the type of retailer 
involved, the transaction type, the location etc. They also take into account previous 
spending patterns of the customer.
Those algorithms can trigger a fraud alert when the transaction is perfectly legitimate. That 
can be annoying and frustrating for customers  as Ive no doubt it was for Mr E. But banks 
do have to strike a fine balance between convenience for their customers and prevention of 
fraudulent activity. And sometimes legitimate transactions will be blocked as a result.
The transaction Mr E attempted triggered a fraud alert with HSBC and was blocked. Thats 
unfortunate. But Im satisfied HSBC didnt do anything that was unfair or unreasonable. The 
algorithm was applied automatically to Mr Es transaction as it would have been to any other 
customers transaction. No-one actively interfered with the system in order to inconvenience 
Mr E.
HSBCs records show that they tried to contact Mr E that same day to resolve the matter and 
to establish whether he had in fact tried to use his own card to make the transaction. When 
they had no reply to their call, they left a message asking Mr E to get in touch with them.
It was some considerable time later that Mr E complained to HSBC about a further 
transaction being blocked. 
I can see that HSBC did offer at one point to issue a new card to Mr E. Mr E also visited the 
branch to confirm his contact details. Its understandable in the circumstances that HSBC 
wanted to be sure that any new card was going to Mr E himself and not to someone 
purporting to be him.
After that, Mr E contacted HSBC to ask them to unblock his existing card. This call ended 
prematurely  seemingly because Mr E became frustrated with the process and/or the time it 
was taking. 
At that point, HSBC advised Mr E he would have to attend the branch with photographic 
proof of identification in order for them to unlock his account and/or issue a new card.
I understand that was inconvenient for Mr E, but in all of the circumstances, I dont think it 
was unreasonable. There was genuine cause for concern at that point about the security of 
Mr Es account. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied HSBC didnt act unfairly towards Mr E when the original 
transaction was blocked or afterwards when they were in touch with Mr E to try to resolve 
the matter satisfactorily for all concerned. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman