DRN-4391810
The complaint
Mr M has complained about delays in the handling of a claim he made against Telefonica 
Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. trading as Telefonica Insurance UK 
Branch (Telefonica).
References to Telefonica include its agents and claims administrators. 
   
What happened
When Mr M lost his tablet, he submitted a claim to Telefonica with whom it was insured on 
27 February 2023. He was told that he should contact his network service providers 
customer services team to request the barring of his lost tablet as his claim couldnt be 
progressed until this had been done. Telefonicas claims administration company is 
associated with Mr Ms network service provider.
Mr M contacted his network service provider to request that his tablet be barred. He says he 
was passed between departments, kept on hold, and some calls were terminated. He was 
told that his tablet had been barred but when he contacted Telefonica again, he was told that 
the tablet wasnt barred and hed have to contact his network service provider again. This 
happened multiple times between 27 February and 24 April 2023. Mr M was concerned 
about the security of his tablets contents whilst his tablet remained unbarred.
Mr M complained to Telefonica. Its final response, issued on 12 May 2023, was that it didnt 
have the facility to bar or unbar any IMEI and it was a different legal entity to his network 
service provider. It therefore had to refer him to his network providers customer services 
team for it to bar the IMEI of the tablet. It apologised that this caused delays to his claim, but 
it wasnt able to uphold his complaint. It said that once the IMEI had been barred, it could 
complete the assessment of his claim.
Telefonicas records show that when it reviewed Mr Ms claim, it was found that there was an 
issue with the system used by its claims validation team. This caused its records to show  
that the tablets IMEI wasnt barred when in fact it was. Mr M was therefore repeatedly 
referred back to his network service provider to request that it be barred. 
Telefonica says that in an effort to resolve Mr Ms concerns, it accepted his claim. It 
apologised for the issues that hed faced and offered him compensation of £275. It didnt 
uphold his complaint in so far as it related to the delays to his claim and that he was 
transferred between multiple departments.
Mr M brought a complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that Telefonica could 
have helped Mr M more than it did to ensure that Mr Ms tablet was barred. He thought that 
£275 should be paid to Mr M as compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered for the period up to Telefonicas final response letter, 12 May 2023.
Mr M isnt satisfied with the amount of compensation recommended by our investigator, so 
his complaint has been referred to me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint but Im not going to require Telefonica to do 
more than it has already offered to do, and Ill explain why.
As our investigator has explained to Mr M, we can only look at what Telefonica has done or 
failed to do in relation to Mr Ms complaint about the delay in the assessment of the claim he 
made following the loss of his tablet. 
Because Telefonicas claims administrator is associated with Mr Ms network service 
provider, there is scope for a confusion between two separate entities  Telefonicas claims 
administrators, and his network service provider. Some of the stress and upset that Mr M 
says he has suffered is not directly attributable to Telefonica but arose from his dealings with 
his network service provider.
Mr M contacted his network service provider on numerous occasions to request that his 
tablet be barred. Mr M has said that he was passed around departments, and on a number 
of occasions his telephone calls were terminated, the reason apparently being that there was 
difficulty in understanding what Mr M was saying. Telefonicas records show that these calls 
were not with it but with his network service provider. 
But in my view, Telefonica bears much of the blame for the delay in handling Mr Ms claim. It 
identified a fault in the system used by its claims validation team that showed that his tablet 
was still unbarred when it had been barred by his network service provider. It couldve done 
more to assist Mr M.
Ive listened to a call between Telefonica and Mr Ms network service provider on 23 March 
2023 in which his network service provider was asked to bar Mr Ms tablet which it then 
immediately did and confirmed this done at 17:03 on 23 March 2023. This evidences that it 
was quite possible for Telefonica to take the initiative and liaise directly with Mr Ms network 
service provider. Had it continued to do so the system error might have been identified 
earlier which wouldve allowed Mr Ms claim to be assessed earlier and his many lengthy 
phone calls to his network service provider wouldnt have been necessary.
I accept that Mr M suffered considerable inconvenience and upset in having to repeatedly 
contact his network service provider to ask for his tablet to be barred when it appears that it 
already had been although this wasnt being picked up by Telefonicas claims validation 
system. He had a concern about the security of his data, although as the tablet was blocked 
his data wasnt in fact compromised. This issue wasnt resolved for approximately one 
month.
When a business is at fault, this service will consider whether compensation is appropriate 
and if so, what level of compensation is fair in the circumstances. Its role isnt to punish a 
business, but to recognise any upset and inconvenience suffered by a customer that is more 
than minimal or beyond what might reasonably be expected.
I take into account that Mr M suffered the upset of multiple calls to his network service 
provider over this period, but Telefonica isnt responsible for how those calls were handled 
the passing between call handlers and the terminated calls - as it is a different entity. 
I also take into account that Telefonica  in its final response to Mr M on 12 May 2023 didnt 
make any reference to the system error and still required Mr Ms tablet to be barred before it could assess his claim. It was only following a review of Mr Ms complaint that the system 
error was identified. This led to Mr Ms claim being accepted and Telefonica offering Mr M 
£275 by way of compensation notwithstanding the extremely abusive written 
correspondence it had received from Mr M.
In my view Mr M experienced upset and inconvenience that was more than one might expect 
when dealing with such matters and was more than minimal. However the impact was 
relatively short lasting (other than any impact that Mr Ms withholding of payments might 
have on his credit rating, for which I dont consider Telefonica is responsible).
Also, Telefonica is not directly responsible for the upset Mr M suffered in his dealings with 
his network service provider other than by the fact that he was required to contact it again 
each time Telefonicas claim validation team told him that his tablet still hadnt been barred.
I consider that the compensation of £275 that Telefonica has offered to Mr M is very much in 
line with what this service would award in similar circumstances. Im therefore not going to 
require Telefonica to pay any more than this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I require Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U.  trading as 
Telefonica Insurance UK Branch to pay Mr M compensation of £275 if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman