DRN-3299507
The complaint
Mr Ts complained that hes overpaid on a loan he had with Sainsburys Bank Plc 
(Sainsburys).
What happened
Mr T applied to Sainsburys for a loan in mid-2017.  He signed an agreement to borrow 
£15,000 over 36 months.  The interest rate was 8.1% APR.  Repayments were deferred for 
two months from the start of the loan, after which monthly instalments of £474.88 were due.  
Mr T made all his monthly payments on time and the loan was repaid as scheduled in 
August 2020.
A few months before the end of the loan, Mr T says he was advised to check the repayment 
calculation.  He entered the same information on a price comparison website, which found a 
loan for the same amount at the same interest rate.  The monthly repayment was stated to 
be £468.76.  So Mr T complained to Sainsburys that hed been overcharged by £6.12 each 
month  a total of £220.32 over the life of the loan.
Sainsburys investigated Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it.  They said Mr T had agreed to 
the loan terms by signing and returning them.  He could have raised any concerns before 
doing that  or he could have chosen not to sign.
And Sainsburys said the quote Mr T got from the price comparison website in 2020 wasnt 
indicative of the lending criteria theyd applied in 2017.  Nor could it be directly compared 
because it was only a quote, not an application  and lenders do amend rates once 
applications have been looked at by their underwriters. 
As they said there was no bank error, Sainsburys wouldnt refund Mr T any money.  But they 
did say they should have responded more quickly to his complaint.  They apologised for the 
delay and offered him £50 compensation for this.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response and brought his complaint to us.  He told us 
hed been charged 8.1% interest on the loan, even though Sainsburys had advertised loans 
at 3.9%.  And he was concerned that the difference between the repayments he made to 
Sainsburys and the repayment on the quote showed there was a hidden payment protection 
insurance (PPI) fee.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Sainsburys didnt need to do any 
more to resolve it.  He said that, even though Sainsburys had advertised a lower interest rate 
than Mr T had paid, that wasnt necessarily the rate every borrower would pay.  He looked at 
Mr Ts loan agreement and thought it made the rate charged on his loan clear.  
He noted that Mr T would have paid additional interest because the loan repayments were 
deferred for two months.  But he was satisfied this was made clear in the terms  as were 
the charges for credit, which showed all Mr Ts repayments were made up of capital 
repayments and interest and there were no PPI or other charges. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
We expect businesses which provide personal loans to make clear to their customers the 
terms on which theyre lending  including details like the applicable interest rate, the 
monthly repayment which is due and any charges that have been included in the loan.
Ive looked at the credit agreement Mr T signed.  It states:
the duration of the agreement is 38 months;
Mr T will make 36 payments of £474.88;
the APR is 8.1%;
Mr T will pay a total of £17,095.68  which is made up of the £15,000 borrowed and 
£2,095.68 interest;
there is no arrangement fee. 
I think all those terms are clear on the face of the agreement.  And Ive seen those were the 
terms that were applied during the life of the loan.   
Mr T has said he applied for a loan over 36 months, and only saw the term was 38 months 
when he received the agreement to sign.  And he understood from Sainsburys adverts that 
the interest rate would be around 3.9%.  
Ive thought about this.  But I think the credit agreement is clear what terms Mr T would be 
bound by if he signed.  And, although he says that, by the time he received the agreement, it 
was too late to change, I dont agree that was the case.  
The terms and conditions say the loan isnt binding until both parties had signed it.  So Mr T 
could have queried the interest rate, the duration, or any other term with Sainsburys before 
doing that.  I dont think its fair to say Sainsburys are responsible for him not doing that.
Mr T has sent us a quote from a price comparison website which he says shows Sainsburys 
charged him too much for the loan.  And hes provided information about how another 
provider calculated interest on a loan they gave him - which he says shows Sainsburys 
calculations were unfair. 
We expect businesses to make clear what interest a customer will pay.  But theres no 
requirement that all businesses calculate interest exactly the same way.  So the fact that 
another lender calculated interest on their loans differently doesnt mean Sainsburys 
calculations were wrong.
Nor can I say the quote Mr T obtained in 2020 shows the repayments on his Sainsburys loan 
were too high.  Sainsburys pointed out this was only a quote  and an application may not 
generate the same repayment figure.  I agree.  And I agree with Sainsburys that a quote 
obtained in 2020 doesnt show the terms of a loan made in 2017 were unfair.
Ive seen that Sainsburys have acknowledged their delay in responding to Mr Ts complaint.  
They provided him with clear information about the payments he needed to make.  And they provided more information than wed expect them to about how they calculated those 
payments.  I dont think they need to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about Sainsburys Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman