DRN-1273563
The complaint
This complaint is about a protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard. 
What happened
Mr H says Barclays mis-sold him the PPI when he took out a credit card in 2000. He says he 
didn't agree to take PPI and it was added without his knowledge or consent. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the PPI was mis-sold. And that Barclays' refund of the high level 
of undisclosed commission it received was fair. Mr H disagreed, so I've been asked to make 
a decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
Mr H ticked a box on his credit card application form to indicate he wanted PPI. So, I think 
Barclays made it clear that he didn't have to take out the PPI, and he chose to take it. 
However, I can understand why he cant remember this given how long ago it was.
Barclays didn't recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didn't have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr H's circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So, it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But Barclays 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because it got a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr H about 
that. Because Barclays didn't tell Mr H, that was unfair. To put that right, Barclays has paid 
back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  
and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, including about his partner and parents being 
able to cover his repayments if he was unable to work. But these points dont change my decision. The help of family isn't guaranteed  because it depends on their circumstances 
at the time, which can change. And I dont think this potential source of help wouldve made 
him think the PPI wasn't worthwhile. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman