DRN-1696782
 
The complaint
Ms C (on behalf of the estate of Mr L) and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1986, in connection with a 
joint mortgage arranged by Mrs G and the late Mr L. The policy provided cover for Mr L and 
Mrs G if they couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms C and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms C and Mrs Gs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr L and Mrs Gs needs?
-           Did Lloyds give Mr L and Mrs G the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr L 
and Mrs G were worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Ms C and Mrs Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons 
below.
Mrs G says Lloyds didnt give her and Mr L a proper choice about buying the policy. She 
says it was presented as part of the overall mortgage package, and the bank didnt make it 
clear it was optional. Ive noted everything Mrs G has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr L and Mrs G and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. There is also very little documentary evidence from the 
time the policy was sold, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed.
Im also mindful that these events took place over thirty years ago, and that exact 
recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything else to support what Mrs G has told me, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to conclude that Lloyds didnt make her and Mr L aware that the PPI was 
optional.
Lloyds cant say for sure how the policy was sold to Mr L and Mrs G. But even if I accept that 
the bank advised them to take out the policy, it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
There is nothing to suggest Mr L and Mrs G werent eligible for the policy. 
Mrs G says she and Mr L were entitled to benefits from their employers if they were 
off work due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
Mr L and Mrs Gs occupational benefits, and wouldve meant they could use those 
benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr L and Mrs G would have had some 
use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
Mr L and Mrs G werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations wouldve changed Mr L and Mrs Gs decision to have it.
I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr L and Mrs G before they 
agreed to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy wasnt 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr L and Mrs G would have made a different decision 
if better information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr L and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this 
type of cover. And as Ive already said, Mr L and Mrs G werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. So I think it unlikely Mr L and Mrs G would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken 
out the policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C (on behalf of 
the estate of Mr L) and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman