DRN-1022165
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down part of a claim 
they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have three insurance policies with UKI  a home insurance policy and two 
motor insurance policies for two separate motor vehicles.
Mr and Mrs Bs house was broken into while they were on holiday. A number of things were 
stolen, including one of their cars; their house keys and the keys to another vehicle. They 
made a claim for the stolen car on their motor policy. They claimed for the items thatd been 
stolen from their home on their home insurance policy. UKI agreed to consider both claims. 
But Mr and Mrs B also wanted to claim for keys to their other vehicle which had been stolen 
from the house during the burglary. First, they looked into claiming as part of their motor 
claim for the car that had been stolen during the break-in. When UKI said the motor policy 
only covered the stolen car and its keys, Mr and Mrs B decided to claim for the keys as part 
of their home insurance claim.
UKI turned down this part of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said that the home insurance policy 
didnt cover vehicles or keys. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this and complained to UKI. 
They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should succeed. He looked at the contents policy 
and felt that claims for keys were excluded by the terms and conditions. He also didnt think 
the terms were unusual or significant, so he didnt think they needed to be specifically drawn 
to Mr and Mrs Bs attention. He didnt think UKI needed to settle the part of the claim for the 
stolen keys. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigator. They said the fact they had all three policies 
with UKI hadnt given them any special treatment. They didnt want to claim on the motor 
policy for the vehicle the keys belonged to as this could affect future premiums. And they 
said that the keys to the vehicle had been stolen from the house  not the car. They felt 
UKIs decisions didnt stack up and that the incident had been traumatic and stressful. They 
asked for an ombudsman to look into their complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Its clear that the burglary was stressful for Mr and Mrs B. It seems they have chosen to get 
much of their insurance through UKI. So I can understand why they may feel it should be 
possible to claim for everything stolen from their home as part of their home insurance claim. And why its frustrating to be told they need to make multiple claims, leading to potentially 
increased policy premiums at the next renewals.
But as our investigator explained, when looking into whether or not an insurer has handled a 
claim fairly, we need to consider the policy terms and conditions. And whether or not the 
insurer has applied those terms and conditions fairly and reasonably in the way its handled 
a claim. For me to decide UKI treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly, Id need to be persuaded it 
hadnt properly, fairly or reasonably applied its policy terms when dealing with their claim for 
the keys.
So Ive carefully considered what the contents section of the policy says and the cover it 
offers. The policy covers the theft of contents from the home. UKIs defined what it means by 
contents in the definitions section of the policy booklet. The policy says:
Household goods, personal possessions, business equipment, camping equipment, money, 
satellite dishes, aerials and other articles which you are responsible for or that belong to you, 
domestic staff who live in or guests, except paying guests.
But not:
-Vehicles (my emphasis)
-Any living creature
-Landlords fixtures and fittings
-Securities (financial certificates except those defined as money), certificates and 
documents, except driving licences and passports.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint turns on whether or not the vehicle keys should be included within 
their contents claim. Their contents policy doesnt cover claims for vehicles. So next, Ive 
turned to look at the definition of vehicle in their policy. The word vehicle is defined as:
Any vehicle or toy propelled by a motor of any kind, caravans, trailers, hovercraft, aircraft, 
watercraft, land yacht, wind powered or assisted vehicles, as well as any of their keys,(my 
emphasis) key-fobs, parts and accessories (except for removable entertainment or 
navigation equipment while it is removed from the vehicle.)
As Mr and Mrs B are claiming for the keys to a vehicle, it seems this part of their claim falls 
within this definition. Anything within this definition is specifically excluded from cover by the 
terms of their contents policy. This means their keys arent covered by it. 
Ive also thought about whether or not this was a particularly unusual or onerous term of Mr 
and Mrs Bs policy which needed to be drawn to their attention. I dont think this exclusion is 
particularly unusual in home insurance policies; its fairly standard and so I dont think it 
needed to be specifically highlighted to them.
Mr and Mrs B said they hadnt received any special treatment from UKI, despite having all 
three policies with it. Ive thought about this. But the regulators rules say that an insurer 
must handle claims promptly and fairly. In this case, I can see that UKI started looking into 
Mr and Mrs Bs claims very promptly after Mr B told it about the theft. And Im satisfied that it 
handled the claim for their keys fairly. So I think UKI has handled this part of their claim in 
line with the regulators rules.Overall, I think it was fair for UKI to decide Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the stolen keys wasnt 
covered by their contents policy and to suggest they made a claim for the keys on the motor 
insurance policy for the vehicle the keys belong to.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold Mr and Mrs B's 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman