DRN-2579379
The complaint
Mr S complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money he lost when he was tricked 
into paying for an item he did not receive.
  
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr S was the victim of a scam after he made a 
faster payment of £920. He made the payment for a used laptop computer hed seen 
advertised for sale on a popular social media platform.
Mr S had initially seen the item on the social media platform and then contacted the seller to 
obtain more information about it. Mr S says the seller had a very good seller rating on the 
platform. He spoke to the seller about the item through messages and phone conversation. 
The seller provided Mr S with photos of the laptop, and they agreed a price and delivery of 
the item. Mr S then sent payment via his mobile app. 
When Mr S didnt receive the item as expected he tried to contact the seller. The seller 
stopped responding to his messages and then blocked him. Mr S realised hed been the 
victim of a scam and contacted Monzo to report it.
Monzo didnt agree to refund Mr S. It said it had given Mr S a scam warning and didnt 
consider hed taken sufficient steps to check verify he was paying a legitimate seller.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more 
of those exceptions applies in this case. It said it gave a scam warning and that Mr S made 
the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it was genuine. Monzo said 
Mr S ought to have done more checks to make sure he was making a legitimate purchase 
from a legitimate seller.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Mr Ss claim under the CRM 
Code. She didnt think that Monzo had provided an effective warning prior to his making the 
payment. She didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish Mr S made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from a 
legitimate seller.
Monzo maintained its position. So, I have been asked to make a final decision on the 
outcome of Mr Ss complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr S 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr S lost.
The money was set from Mr Ss current account, having briefly been held in a 
savings pot prior to the payment. It is not clear how Mr S would have used the money 
if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But if Monzo had refunded the 
money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr S would not have been deprived 
of it for the time he has. So, Monzo should also pay interest on the balance not yet 
refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should apply from the date 
Monzo first declined to refund Mr S, to the date of settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr S ignored an effective scam warning or made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate seller 
for a legitimate item. I will go on to explain why I have reached this finding.
The warning Monzo says it gave Mr S was not tailored to any particular scam type, being 
wholly generic in nature. The CRM Code specifies that as a minimum an effective warning 
message needs to be tailored to the type of scam risk identified by the firm during the 
payment journey  for example that of a typical purchase scam. This warning message did 
not meet that specification. 
Further, the CRM Code requires an effective warning to be impactful - in its ability to help 
reduce the likelihood of such an APP scam succeeding. The warning Monzo says it gave 
relied on the reader already having doubts that this might be a scam - but in many such APP 
scams, the consumer has already been persuaded the payment is legitimate. I dont find the 
warning given met the requirement to be impactful. So again, I find the warning fell short of 
the minimum requirements given in the CRM Code for an effective warning.
It follows that I am not satisfied that Monzo has established that Mr S ignored an effective 
warning given in compliance with the CRM Code: the warning message provided did not 
meet the minimum requirements of such a warning. 
Even if I had found the warning given was effective (which I do not), I dont consider Mr Ss 
actions in response were inappropriate. I say this because the message recommended 
clicking a link for further advice if a customer had doubts that the payee might be trying to 
scam them  in the circumstances here, Mr S didnt have such doubts. Ive gone onto 
consider whether his belief in the legitimacy of this transaction was a reasonable one.
Firstly, hes explained that hed previously used the same marketplace successfully for other 
purchases. I accept Monzos point that anyone can post an advert for an item and so an 
advert, in itself, is no guarantee that a seller is legitimate. But Mr S was not placing sole 
reliance on an advert. He had taken several steps to validate the seller and the item. Im 
satisfied that Mr S carried out checks proportionate to the purchase he was undertaking. 
Mr S noted that the seller had multiple positive seller ratings. He engaged with the seller 
across multiple channels  via the marketplace, via imessage, and by phone call. The price 
he was paying was broadly in line with the second-hand item being offered  it wasnt too 
good to be true. Mr S asked if he could collect the item in person but was given a plausible explanation as to why that wasnt possible and offered delivery instead. I dont find it 
particularly unusual to pay for an item online and have it delivered rather than necessarily 
seeing it in person first. 
Taking account of all the circumstances here, which includes the warning messages Monzo 
says it gave, on balance Im satisfied that Mr S made the payment with a reasonable basis 
for believing this was a genuine seller and a genuine item.
  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr S:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £920.00 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr Ss claim until the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman