DRN-3121669
The complaint
Mrs P (through a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to her 
irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks.   
What happened
In total Mrs P was given 17 home collected loans between April 2008 and July 2016.
STF says the first 11 loans (so loans taken between April 2008 and December 2013) 
shouldnt be considered. It says that it doesnt hold any information about them as 
information is deleted after six years. 
The adjudicator contacted Mrs Ps representative to ask when Mrs P became aware, she 
had cause for complain. While her representative acknowledged the request, a full response 
wasnt provided. 
Therefore, the adjudicator only considered loans 12  17, which are the ones that STF says 
can be considered. As no further response has been received about this issue, Im only 
going to look at loans 12  17.
Ive included the information weve received about the loans in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement date repayment date term (weeks)
12 £400.00 11/04/2014 08/08/2014 16
13 £500.00 08/08/2014 21/11/2014 16
14 £550.00 21/11/2014 13/03/2015 16
15 £550.00 03/04/2015 24/07/2015 16
16 £650.00 31/07/2015 20/11/2015 16
17 £600.00 29/07/2016 14/07/2017 16
The adjudicator, reviewed Mrs Ps complaint and she thought STF shouldnt have given
Mrs P loans 12  17. In her view, the overall pattern of lending was now harmful for Mrs P 
and so these loans ought to not have been provided. 
Mrs P appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
STF disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, STF said;
It hadnt done anything wrong in the way it had dealt with Mrs P. 
STF adhered to the rules and regulations that were applicable at the time. 
Prior to November 2018 STF didnt have the ability to keep copies of bank 
statements, wage slips or utility bills. 
There were breaks in lending between loans 15 and 16 and again between loans 16 
and 17. 
It took Mrs P longer to repay her final loan as a result of financial difficulties, but STF 
offered forbearance. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Although I make no finding on whether STF was right or wrong to have approved loans 1  
11, I have kept these loans in mind whether thinking about whether STF did all it did when it 
approved loans 12  17. 
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P could
repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mrs P. These factors include: 
Mrs P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs P. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time these loans were lent, STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ps complaint.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 12 - 17 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. 
STF has been able to provide this Service with a copy of Mrs Ps application forms. Looking 
at these, it appears for each loan it asked her about her income and expenditure. And it 
looks like, for Mrs Ps final loan that STF also saw copies of the following documents;
Tenancy agreement; 
Council tax bill and 
The last three months of bank statements. 
But as it has explained, at the time it didnt have the ability to store the data. We only know it 
saw the statements because it has been noted on the application form. 
Indeed, Id be inclined to think that from loan 12, STFs checks really needed to go further. At 
this point in the lending relationship, I think STF ought to have had a full understanding of 
Mrs Ps financial position. Its not clear to me it did this for all of these loans. 
But as Mrs P hasnt provided us with the bank statements, and STF hasnt provided us with 
details of what it saw, it is difficult to place any weight on this. But as Ive explained above, 
the loan being pound and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent felt 
he need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for these loans because I 
didnt consider it necessary to do so. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mrs P, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Mrs P. Having looked at the overall pattern of 
STFs lending history with Mrs P, I agree with our adjudicator that STF should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it 
provided loan 12. I say this because;
At this point STF ought to have realised Mrs P was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs P had taken out 12 loans in six years and she had been indebted to 
STF for the entire time. So STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mrs P was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Mrs Ps 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. It also seems that Mrs Ps loan history 
up until this point was a clearly indicating that her underlying financial situation didnt 
seem to be improving.
Six years into the lending relationship, Mrs Ps weekly repayments had increased 
from £20 (at loan 1) to £40. This to suggests, that Mrs Ps indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably, and she was likely needing further borrowing to cover 
ongoing living costs, rather than as a means to cover one-off purchases, for example. 
Mrs P usually took new loans around the same time previous ones were repaid, for 
example, loans 11 and 12. This continued into the lending relationship, as the same 
thing happened between loans 13 and 14. And where these were gaps, these tended 
to be quite small, such as week between loans 15 and 16. There was a larger gap 
between 16 and 17 but I deal with that below. So, STF ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mrs P, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to 
effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me, this is an indicative of her 
indebtedness not being sustainable;Mrs P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STF. Loan 17 was 
taken out over eight years after Mrs Ps first loan. And it was for nearly three times 
the amount that Mrs P initially borrowed.  Mrs P had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service a debt to STF over an extended period.
Finally, Ive thought about the gaps in lending that STF has highlighted, and there is a 
sizeable gap of around eight months between loans 16 and 17 when Mrs P wasnt indebted 
to STF. However, I have to offset that with the fact that she had spent the majority of the 
previous eight years owing STF money. So, in this case, Im minded to conclude that this 
gap wasnt sufficient to break the lending chain. 
I think that Mrs P lost out when STF provided loans 12 - 17 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and the time in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 12 - 17 and Ill go on to set out
what STF should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs P from loan 12. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs P may have simply left matters there 
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and STF which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, 
she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs P in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs P would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Mrs P loans 12 - 17.
A) STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs P towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything
it has already refunded.B) STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs P
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs P originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) The overall pattern of Mrs Ps borrowing about loan 12 - 17 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ps credit 
file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. STF should
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax STF has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman