DRN-2005895
The complaint
Mrs T complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called Provident 
Personal Credit Limited. She says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused her 
financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Provident throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mrs T took out 3 loans from Provident between April 2010 and January 
2011. Ive enclosed a summary of Mrs Ts borrowing with Provident, based on the 
information it provided to us: 
loan date taken date repaid amount term
1 12/04/2010 02/11/2010 £300 31 weeks
2 31/08/2010 12/01/2011 £300 31 weeks
3 06/01/2011 outstanding £1000 50 weeks
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it should be 
upheld. Mrs T disagreed with this, so Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mrs Ts complaint.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs T could repay the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Provident should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for Mrs T. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Provident told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mrs T and took account of what she herself said her income and expenditure was. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Provident most likely carried out would have been quite basic ones. But I also 
think these would have been proportionate for loans 1  3. I think these levels of checks, 
together with the income and expenditure details provided by Mrs T herself, would have 
made those particular early loans appear affordable. 
Mrs T said her income after tax was around £2,000 per month. The first 2 loans do seem 
relatively modest amounts in that context and I note were paid back. Ive taken into account 
that loan 3 was for more money, but again, I think Provident would have thought the 
repayments were well within her capacity to pay. And even if I consider that Provident ought 
to have done more at this point to comprehensively check her overall financial position, Ive 
got no evidence before me which shows Providents conclusions would have been different; 
I still think it would have approved the lending to Mrs T.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T and I recognise she may well have been experiencing some 
financial challenges. But in the circumstances Ive assessed here, Im afraid there isnt 
enough evidence to uphold her complaint about any of these 3 loans.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Provident 
Personal Credit Limited to pay Mrs T any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman