DRN-3299920
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) rejecting claims for dental 
treatment of her rabbit under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B had a pet insurance policy providing cover for one of her rabbits. The rabbit required 
treatment, initially in March 2020 and then in December 2020. Mrs B made a claim for the 
cost of treatment on both occasions, but her claims were declined by Pinnacle.
In respect of the claim for treatment in March 2020, concerning dental issues, Pinnacle 
declined the claim on the grounds that Mrs Bs rabbit hadnt (as required under the terms of 
the policy) had an annual check by a vet (or if not annual, as recommended by a vet) 
between September 2017 and March 2020.
 
Unhappy at her claim being declined, Mrs B complained to Pinnacle. In their final response 
in July 2020, Pinnacle didnt uphold the complaint. They said that her rabbit hadnt had 
annual booster vaccinations (or a health check at the same time) despite having been sent 
reminders. As such, Pinnacle confirmed their decision to reject Mrs Bs claim as she hadnt 
had the annual checks (or as recommended by a vet) that were a condition under the policy.
In respect of the second claim in December 2020, it was in respect of anorexia. But it was 
assessed by Pinnacle as being related to dental issues and they considered it to be a 
continuation of the earlier claim theyd rejected. As such, they declined the second claim for 
the same reasons as the first. 
Mrs B thought this was unfair, so complained again to Pinnacle. She didnt think the second 
claim was a continuation of the first and between the two treatments her rabbit had been 
checked by a vet and no issues had been found. Pinnacle rejected Mrs Bs complaint, saying 
in their final response that the absence of a history of annual checks theyd noted when 
rejecting the first claim also meant that they couldnt consider the second claim.
Unhappy at Pinnacles rejection of her claims (and complaints), Mrs B complained to this 
service. While Mrs Bs complaint was within six months of Pinnacles second final response, 
it was more than six months after their first final response. However, Miss B provided details 
of her circumstances that she said prevented her complaining within six months of the first 
final response. We shared those details with Pinnacle, who agreed that we could consider 
the rejection of both claims.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He concluded that, from the reports from 
the vets who had seen Mrs Bs rabbit, the rabbit wasnt seen between September 2017 and 
March 2020. Based on this, the investigator concluded that Pinnacle had fairly declined the 
first claim. On the decline of the second claim, the investigator concluded that as the 
treatment had been classified as dental related, the same policy exclusion used by Pinnacle 
to decline the first claim was used fairly to decline the second claim.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She said that Pinnacle hadnt properly considered the policy alternative (to 
annual checks). She also considered that the absence of annual vet recommendations 
supported her view that no checks were required. She also argued that having had treatment 
for dental issues in March 2020, then this was effectively a check-up and the second claim 
wasnt a continuation of the first.
In my findings while I agreed that Pinnacle had acted reasonably in declining Mrs Bs first 
claim, they didnt act reasonably in relying on the same exclusion to decline the second 
claim as they had relied on to decline the first claim. To put things right, I thought Pinnacle 
should assess Mrs Bs second claim without relying on the exclusion, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
As I disagreed in part with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Pinnacle has acted fairly towards Mrs B.
 
The main issue in Mrs Bs complaint is the decision of Pinnacle to decline both her claims, in 
March 2020 and then December 2020. But there are different aspects to each decline and 
whether the two claims are (as Pinnacle believe) continuations of the same issue, or - as 
Mrs B maintains  theyre separate. Ive considered the decline of each claim in turn, then 
the question of whether they are separate or a continuation.
On the decline of the first claim, Pinnacles view is that Mrs B didnt comply with the terms 
and conditions of the policy relating to the need for annual checks (or, if not annual, at 
intervals recommended by a vet.). Mrs B disagrees, saying that Pinnacle hasnt properly 
considered the policy alternative (to annual checks). She also contends that the absence of 
evidence of annual vet recommendations supports her view that no checks were required.
Ive considered both views carefully. In doing so Ive looked at the relevant policy terms and 
conditions that Pinnacle say Mrs B didnt comply with. The key condition is contained in 
Section 4  Your Insurance Cover under A - Veterinary Fees, where the wording What you 
are covered for states:
6. The cost of treatment for a dental condition and any related conditions, provided:
(a) there is a history of annual check-ups (or if not annual, as recommended 
by your vet) and evidence that any advice given has been followed within 
3 months;
(b) the treatment is to relieve suffering due to illness; and 
(c) the dental treatment was recommended and undertaken after the first 2 
years of cover.
The key wording is that under (a). Pinnacle say that [both] claims were declined because 
there wasnt a history of annual check-ups and a gap in the medical history between 
September 2017 and March 2020. This isnt disputed by Mrs B, but she maintains Pinnacle 
havent considered the second element of the condition (the reference to or if not annual, as recommended by your vet.) Mrs B argues that the absence of recommendations for an 
annual check mean that no checks were required. 
 
Ive thought about this point, given the wording of the condition. But I dont agree with Mrs 
Bs argument. Reading the condition, I think the presumption in the first instance is that an 
annual check-up is carried out. If this doesnt happen, then the alternative is that a vet 
makes a recommendation for check-ups at intervals other than annual. I dont think the 
absence of such a recommendation indicates that no checks are required. As such, I agree 
with Pinnacles view that Mrs B hadnt complied with this condition. As Pinnacle were relying 
on this to decline the first claim, then the onus is on them to show that this exclusion applies. 
Given what Ive concluded, then I think theyve done this and so they acted reasonably in 
declining Mrs Bs first claim.
Turning to the second claim, Pinnacle argue that while the issue was anorexia, it was 
assessed as being related to dental issues and they considered it a continuation of the 
earlier claim theyd rejected. As such, they declined the second claim for the same reasons 
as they declined the first. Mrs B argues that the treatment for dental issues in March 2020 
effectively constituted a check, which was only nine months before the issues that arose in 
December 2020. Also, that Pinnacles decline of the second claim because of the absence of 
annual checks between September 2017 and March 2020 in effect meant that all future 
claims for dental treatment would be declined.
Ive considered these points carefully. Ive also looked at the case notes for Mrs Bs rabbit, 
including records of its treatment. From the claim form in respect of the December 2020 
treatment, the issue is recorded as anorexia and that it isnt a continuation of a previous 
claim and that the issue began in December 2020. Nor that the rabbit had been previously 
seen for the illness, any similar or related illness, or any similar or related clinical signs. But 
the form does go on to record that the claim is for a dental or related condition. At least some 
of the treatment administered in December 2020 is clearly dental in nature (the removal of 
teeth). Ive considered this, given Pinnacles view it was a continuation of the earlier claim.
 
While its true that on both occasions the issues (and treatments) were dental in nature, Im 
not persuaded that the second claim was a continuation of the first. Thats because the 
indications from the case notes are that the treatment administered under the first claim was 
successful, and that the post operation check indicated no problems. This suggests to me 
that the issues that subsequently arose werent those that had previously arisen (and treated 
successfully) in March 2020). 
That being the case, Ive concluded it was unfair for Pinnacle to rely on the same exclusion 
(the absence of annual checks, or alternative as recommended) to decline the second claim. 
In effect, the treatment in March 2020 and subsequent indication of no issues would be 
equivalent to a check-up. And as the subsequent issues arose only some nine months later, 
then it suggests that they were new issues unrelated to the previous ones (and therefore 
unrelated to the absence of a medical history between September 2017 and March 2020). 
Based on this, Ive concluded that while Pinnacle acted reasonably in declining the first 
claim, they didnt act reasonably in relying on the same exclusion to decline the second 
claim as they had relied on to decline the first claim. To put things right, I think Pinnacle 
should assess Mrs Bs second claim without relying on the exclusion, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in 
respect of the decline of her claim in December 2020. I intend to require Pinnacle Insurance 
Plc to:
Assess the claim without relying on the exclusion, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Mrs B responded to say that, having reviewed the provisional decision, she had no further 
information to provide. But she added that if Pinnacle provided a further response, she 
should be given an opportunity to consider it and respond.
Pinnacle responded to say that they reviewed the findings [in the provisional decision] and 
that they agreed to assess the [December 2020] claim without relying on the exclusion, in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld in respect of Mrs 
Bs complaint in respect of the decline of her claim in December 2020.
As Mrs B didnt have any further information to provide and Pinnacle agreed to my 
provisional decision that they should assess the December 2020 claim without relying on the 
exclusion, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, I havent changed my 
view to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in respect of the decline of her claim in December 2020. 
So my final decision and reasoning remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in respect 
of the decline of her claim in December 2020. I require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to:
Assess the claim without relying on the exclusion, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman