DRN-3930061
The complaint
Ms N complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declining a claim under her home insurance 
policy for damage to her property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Ms Ns property suffered roof damage, with 
tiles being blown off. One of the tiles landed on a neighbours property (damaging a wing 
mirror of a car). Ms N contacted QIC to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. 
On the damage to the neighbours car, Ms N says she was told by QIC to tell the neighbour 
to make a claim on their car insurance policy, which QIC would then reimburse. However, 
when the neighbour contacted their insurer, they were told making a claim would increase 
their premium significantly. So, the neighbour didnt pursue a claim. Ms N agreed with the 
neighbour shed pay to replace the wing mirror (£229). 
On the damage to her roof, QIC arranged for a surveyor (E) to visit the property and assess 
the damage, which they did at the beginning of April. Es report stated the roof was in a 
generally degraded condition, with past repairs including lead tabs, indicating fatigue to slate 
fixings. The report also noted Ms N had repairs carried out to the roof after she moved to the 
property in 2021. The report concluded the proximate cause of the damage to be the age-
related degraded condition of the roof. Based om Es report, QIC declined Ms Ns claim on 
the grounds that the damage was due to pre-existing issues with the roof. So, the damage 
was the result of gradual deterioration, rather than high winds. 
Ms N challenged the decline. The claim was reviewed by QICs in-house surveyor, who 
agreed with Es conclusions and decline of the claim. They noted evidence of lead straps 
(tingles) which hold previously slipped tiles in place. They said this highlighted the degraded 
condition of the roof.
As QIC declined her claim, Ms N subsequently engaged a local roofer to replace the missing 
tiles, at a cost of £200.
Unhappy at the decline of her claim, Ms N complained to QIC, but they didnt uphold it, 
confirming in their final response the decision to decline the claim. While they accepted there 
were storm conditions at the time of the incident, based on their surveyors report findings 
and conclusions about the degraded condition of the roof and this being the proximate cause 
of the damage, they said the storm highlighted pre-existing wear and tear issues. QIC also 
said their in-house surveyor had reviewed the case and agreed with the decision to decline 
the claim. QIC referred to an exclusion under the policy for gradual deterioration. 
Ms N then complained to this service. She didnt think QIC had fairly declined her claim as 
she hadnt had any issues with her roof since she moved to the property in 2021. She said 
she was out of pocket by £429 (£229 to repair the damaged wing mirror and £200 for 
replacement of the missing tiles) and had been inconvenienced. She wanted QIC to cover 
the costs and pay compensation for the inconvenience shed suffered.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC needed to do more to put things right. 
She concluded there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and the damage was 
typical of a storm (specifically, high winds). She noted the findings of E, but also evidence 
provided by Ms N of a survey shed had carried out in 2020 when she was in the process of 
buying the property. The survey recommended maintenance work on the roof, some of 
which Ms N had carried out. The investigator thought this consistent with Es observations 
about past repairs to the roof. However, she didnt think evidence of past repairs meant the 
roof was degraded, rather it indicated steps taken to maintain it. While photographs taken by 
E showed some mortar gaps on ridge tiles, the tiles were still in place (they werent damaged 
by the storm). And earlier images of the roof didnt show evidence of cracked or loose tiles. 
Taking these points together with the severity of the winds on the date of the incident, she 
concluded the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage, and QIC hadnt done 
enough to show theyd applied fairly the exclusion for gradual deterioration. So, they hadnt 
acted fairly in declining the claim. To put things right, she thought QIC should reimburse Ms 
N for the repairs to her roof and pay £150 in compensation for inconvenience shed suffered. 
On the damage to the neighbours car, she thought the right way to deal with this would have 
been for the neighbour to raise a claim on their insurance. So, she didnt think QIC should 
reimburse Ms N for her paying for the damage.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They maintained the storm was the occasion of the damage, not its cause. They 
also referred to the photographs theyd provided showing areas of missing mortar (and the 
views of E and their in-house surveyor) about the degraded condition of the roof. They also 
thought previous repairs were indicative of the overall condition of the roof. They thought Ms 
Ns survey highlighted issues with the roof and the need for work on the roof. While they 
accepted Ms N dealt with some of the issues, they thought this wouldnt improve all areas of 
the roof as a whole and only address specific issues in particular areas. 
Ms N responded to our investigators view to emphasise the severity of the storm conditions 
at the time of the incident, referring to local reports and other coverage of the storm.
In my findings, I concluded that carrying out repairs was what to expect a consumer to do to 
maintain the condition of their property. I also didnt agree that the presence of repairs 
indicated issues with the roof or that it was in a degraded condition. I also noted the work 
carried out to address the issue of the tiles identified in Ms Ns surveyor report.
I also considered the issue of the mortar under the ridge tiles. While there was an issue with 
the condition of the mortar, I didnt think it relevant to the dislodged tiles. Thats because the 
ridge tiles were intact and werent damaged in the storm. Ms Ns claim only included 
dislodged roof tiles, so the missing mortar had no bearing on the dislodged tiles.
I also considered the severity of the storm conditions on the date of the incident. QICs 
weather report indicated a maximum wind speed (gust) of 76 mph and described the wind as 
violent storm force gusts. The wind speed was significantly higher than QICs own policy 
definition of storm force winds (55 mph). A wind speed of 76 mph would (on the Beaufort 
Scale) be classified as Hurricane level under the World Meteorological Organisation 
classifications. At this level, expected damage would include tiles being displaced (if not 
greater damage) which is consistent with what happened in this case.Taken together, I concluded the damage to the roof (dislodged tiles) wasnt due to the 
condition of the roof. QIC hadnt shown this, or that it was fair to apply the exclusion to 
decline the claim for damage to the roof.
On the damage to the neighbours car from a dislodged tile, I concluded that in telling Ms N 
to ask the neighbour to make a claim on their insurance, QIC had followed normal practice in 
such cases. So, I didnt think theyd acted unreasonably. As Ms N came come to a private 
arrangement with her neighbour, which didnt involve QIC, it wouldnt be reasonable to ask 
QIC to reimburse Ms N for the payment she made.
I also considered the question of compensation for the inconvenience Ms N suffered from 
what happened. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I thought £150 would be fair 
and reasonable.
To put things right, as Ms N had already paid for the roof repair work to be carried out, I 
thought QIC should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate) based on Ms N providing 
evidence of the cost shed incurred. In addition, on the assumption Ms N has paid the cost, I 
thought it reasonable to add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Ms N paid the 
cost to the date QIC settle the claim.
Because I reached my conclusions on some additional grounds to those of our investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. 
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Ms N.
The main part of Ms Ns complaint is that QIC unfairly declined her claim, on the grounds 
that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent the main 
cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the condition of the roof, 
which the high winds only highlighted. Ms N doesnt agree, saying the damage was caused 
by the storm and there werent any problems with the roof before the storm. 
In considering whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing issue, there 
are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC accept there were storm conditions around 
Ms Ns property at the time of the incident, noting a highest wind speed of 76 mph. This 
accords with the weather report provided by QIC, which describes the wind as violent storm 
force gusts around 12:00. Reports from the weather firm this service uses also indicate the 
same wind speed and dry storm conditions at the time of the incident. So, Ive concluded 
there were storm conditions present around the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the description of the damage (dislodged tiles and damage to the 
neighbours car from a dislodged tile) is what wed expect in storm conditions, particularly 
high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore key, where Ms N and QIC disagree. Ive considered both 
views carefully, together with the report from E and the opinion of the in-house surveyor. Ive also considered the points made by QIC when responding to our investigators view. Taking 
all these into account, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining Ms Ns claim. Ill 
set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Wear and tear
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states We 
dont coverd. anything that happens gradually.
QIC also refer to their field surveyors report, which states:
the roof is in a generally degraded condition, with the presence of past repairs in 
the form of lead tabs indicating nail fatigue to slate fixings.
And the field surveyors view that:
we deem the proximate cause to be the age-related degraded condition of the 
slate roof.
QIC also refer to their in-house surveyors conclusion that:
we can see through the photos that there is evidence of previous repairs in the 
form of lead straps (tingles) which are usually used to hold previously slipped tiles in 
place. This highlights the condition of the roof and that the storm has highlighted this 
as opposed to being the sole cause.
The first issue Ive considered is the condition of the roof, given the comments from E and 
QICs in-house surveyor. Ive also considered the information provided by Ms N about the 
survey she had carried out when she bought the property, and the evidence shes provided 
about repairs to the roof she has carried out in 2021. She says this shows she carried out 
maintenance work on the roof, improving its condition. QIC say it supports their view about 
previous repairs to the roof. 
On balance, I agree with Ms N. Carrying out repairs (and their presence, as noted by QIC) is 
what Id expect a consumer to do to maintain the condition of their property (and insurers 
expect policyholders to maintain their property to an appropriate standard). Nor do I agree 
with QIC that the presence of repairs indicates issues with the roof or that it was in a 
degraded condition. Ive also considered the report from the surveyor Ms N engaged when 
she bought the property. The report indicates issues with the mortar under the ridge tiles and some slipped tiles. But Ive also seen the evidence of repairs carried out by Ms Ns roofer 
following the surveyors report, including to the tiles. This indicates work was carried out to 
address the issue of the tiles identified in the surveyors report.
Ive also considered the issue of the mortar under the ridge tiles. This issue was mentioned 
in Ms Ns surveyor report. QIC also refer to photographs showing areas of missing mortar. I 
agree this shows an issue with the condition of the mortar. However, I dont think its relevant 
to the issue about the dislodged tiles. Thats because the ridge tiles are intact and werent 
damaged in the storm. So, Ms Ns claim doesnt involve any such damage, it only includes 
dislodged roof tiles. So, the missing mortar has no bearing on the dislodged tiles.
Ive also considered the severity of the storm conditions on the date of the incident (also the 
point made by Ms N when responding to our investigators view).  As noted above, QICs 
weather report indicates a maximum wind speed (gust) of 76 mph and describes the wind as 
violent storm force gusts. The wind speed is significantly higher than QICs own policy 
definition of storm force winds (55 mph). A wind speed of 76 mph would (on the Beaufort 
Scale) be classified as Hurricane level under the World Meteorological Organisation 
classifications. At this level, expected damage would include tiles being displaced (if not 
greater damage) which is consistent with what happened in this case.
Taken together, Ive concluded that the damage to the roof (dislodged tiles) wasnt, on 
balance, due to the condition of the roof. QIC havent shown this, or that it was fair to apply 
the exclusion to decline the claim for damage to the roof.
The other aspect of Ms Ns complaint is about the damage to the neighbours car from a 
dislodged tile. While neither Ms N nor QIC made any comment on our investigators view on 
this issue, Ive considered it in coming to my decision. 
The circumstances described by Ms N are that she was told by QIC to tell the neighbour to 
make a claim on their insurance, with a view to their insurer then seeking reimbursement of 
their costs in settling the claim (assuming they accepted and settled it) from QIC (as insurers 
of Ms N). However, from the circumstances described by Ms N, the neighbour didnt want to 
make a claim because of the impact on their premium. Ms N then paid directly for the 
damage to be repaired.
In considering this issue, my role is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Ms N. 
In telling her to ask the neighbour to make a claim on their insurance, they were following 
normal practice in such cases. So, I dont think they have acted unreasonably. As Ms N has 
come to a private arrangement with her neighbour, which didnt involve QIC, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to ask QIC to reimburse Ms N for the payment she made.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think QIC need to do to put 
things right. Ms N has already paid for the roof repair work to be carried out. That being the 
case, as I dont think QIC can rely on the policy exclusion to decline the claim, I think they 
should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including 
any excess under the policy, as appropriate) based on Ms N providing evidence (such as 
proof of payment on a bank statement) of the cost shes incurred. In addition, on the 
assumption Ms N has paid the cost, I think its reasonable to add interest, at a rate of 8% 
simple, from the date Ms N paid the cost to the date QIC settle the claim.
Ive also considered the question of compensation for the inconvenience Ms N had suffered 
from what happened. From what shes told us, I think the decline of her claim was 
distressing and inconvenient, including her needing to arrange repairs herself when QIC 
declined her claim. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think £150 would be fair 
and reasonable.My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Ms Ns complaint in 
part. I intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including 
any excess under the policy, as appropriate) based on Ms N providing evidence 
(such as proof of payment on a bank statement) of the cost shes incurred. 
Pay £150 for distress and inconvenience.
In addition, on the assumption Ms N has paid the cost, I think its reasonable to add interest, 
at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Ms N paid the cost to the date QIC settle the claim.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Ms N accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ms N responded to day she had no further points to make.
QIC responded to say they disagreed with the provisional decision, making several points. 
First, in referencing the issue of the mortar to the ridge tiles, this wasnt the area of damage 
for which the claim was made. The reference was made to further evidence the overall 
condition of the roof (the deteriorated condition of which was referenced by the surveyor (E), 
the in-house surveyor and their Building Services Manager.
QIC also noted Ms N obtained a quote for roof replacement in 2021, but carried out limited, 
local repairs focusing on the slipped tiles requiring attention (as evidenced by the number of 
lead straps and tingles visible across the roof). Obtaining a quote for a full roof replacement 
was evidence of existing issues throughout the roof. And carrying out local repairs didnt 
address the issues and condition of the roof overall. Together with the condition of the 
mortar, the local repairs were indicative of the overall, degraded condition of the roof.
QIC also referred to nails beginning to fail on the roof to the slates, so areas not maintained 
(or subject to local repair) would [continue to] fail as the nails corroded further, allowing the 
slate to slip.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Ms N.
Ive considered each of the points raised by QIC in turn. On the point about the mortar and 
the ridge tiles, my provisional decision noted these werent part of the claim for damage. 
While their condition indicates a specific issue, they werent dislodged in the violent storm  
indicating their condition wasnt so deteriorated to the extent they failed. Nor does their 
condition have any bearing on the actual damage claimed for.
On the point about Ms N obtaining a quote for roof replacement, I dont think this unusual. 
Having obtained a quote, it would be for Ms N to determine (also based on her surveyors 
report) whether to replace the roof or (as she did) carry out repairs relating to the tiles. 
Indicating she took steps to maintain her property, short of replacing the whole roof. And if 
the roof was as degraded overall as QIC say it was, then Id have expected a storm of the 
violence recorded on the date of the incident to have caused more significant damage than 
just some dislodged tiles. So, Im not persuaded by QICs view.On the point about the nails beginning to fail, meaning areas not maintained would continue 
to fail, the issue would be whether QIC have shown  given the onus on them to show the 
exclusion applies  that the tiles were dislodged because of such a failing. I havent seen this 
from the evidence available, so I havent changed my view that that the dislodged tiles 
werent, on balance, due to the condition of the roof and they havent shown this, or that it 
was fair to apply the exclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Ms Ns complaint in part. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including 
any excess under the policy, as appropriate) based on Ms N providing evidence 
(such as proof of payment on a bank statement) of the cost shes incurred. 
Pay £150 for distress and inconvenience.
In addition, on the assumption Ms N has paid the cost, I think its reasonable to add interest, 
at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Ms N paid the cost to the date QIC settle the claim.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Ms N accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman