DRN-3325532
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Best Risk Management & Financial Service Limited mis-sold him a
personal insurance menu plan, which included life and unemployment cover.
What happened
In or around April 2016, Best Risk sold Mr N life and unemployment cover (which included
waiver of premium in respect of an unemployment claim) underwritten by an insurer, who Ill
call R. These benefits were selected as part of Rs personal menu plan.
Subject to the remaining terms of cover, the unemployment benefit provided a monthly
benefit of £2,500 for up to 12 months. And, in the event of a successful claim, the benefit
would be paid monthly in arrears from the date unemployment started or when payment in
lieu of notice stopped.
Shortly after, Mr N also took out a loan insurance policy  via Best Risks website - which
was underwritten by a different insurer, who Ill call C. That included unemployment cover
as well as sickness and accident cover.
Subsequently, Mr N unfortunately lost his job. He made a claim for unemployment benefit
which was accepted by C and C continued to pay the claim for 12 months. However, R
declined the claim on the basis that Mr N didnt meet the unemployment definition
contained in policys terms and conditions.
Mr N says Best Risk mis-sold him the policy underwritten by R. And if he hadnt taken out
that policy, he says he wouldve opted for the full monthly benefit for unemployment cover
under the policy he had with C (£2,000) rather than the monthly benefit of £650 (which he
subsequently reduced to £456 in around June 2016).
As such, he says he wouldve received a higher monthly benefit than the amount he ended
up receiving for 12 months under the policy underwritten by C.
Unhappy, he complained to Best Risk. It concluded that the policy underwritten by R hadnt
been mis-sold.
Mr N brought his complaint to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She
didnt think Best Risk had done anything wrong. As Mr N didnt agree, his complaint was
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020 explaining why I was also intending to not 
uphold Mr Ns complaint. An extract of which appears below:
The policy underwritten by R
Ive listened to the phone calls Mr N had with one of Best Risks representatives dated
around 21 April 2016. And Ive considered the correspondence between Mr N and Best Risk
around that time relating to the policy underwritten by R.
Its clear from the calls that Mr N was initially considering whether to take out accident,
sickness and unemployment cover or just unemployment cover. He was given his options
during the first call Ive listened to and the policy underwritten by R wasnt discussed during
that call.
Mr R then called back and queried whether the policies they had been discussing included a
premium waiver, covering any successful claim period. Best Risks representative confirmed
that they didnt. And thats when he told Mr N about the policy underwritten by R because
that included premium waiver for accident, sickness and/or unemployment cover. Mr R was
informed of the cost of unemployment cover, which was lower than the policy discussed in
the first call. He was also told of the cost of cover for accident, sickness and unemployment
cover, which was higher than the policy discussed in the first call. Although Mr N wasnt
looking to take out life cover, he was told that in order to take out the policy underwritten by
R, both options included life cover, and this couldnt be removed. Details were sent to Mr N
about the policy for him to consider.
Mr N then called back, and he was taken through a series of questions to answer to do with
the life cover  and ended up reducing the lump sum benefit from £100,000 to £25,000 in
order to reduce the overall premium.
Having listened to the calls, Im satisfied Best Risk didnt advise Mr N to take out the policy
underwritten by R. So, it didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for his needs. However, it
still had a regulatory obligation to provide Mr N information about the main terms of cover in
a clear, fair and not misleading way so that he could decide whether the policy right for him.
Im persuaded that Best Risk did this and that it acted fairly and reasonably when selling the
policy underwritten by R to him. Ill explain why.
Best Risk asked him questions to ensure that he was eligible for the policy underwritten by
R. And comparing his answers to the eligibility criteria, Im satisfied that he was eligible.
Mr N was given important information about the term of the unemployment cover (ten years),
the monthly benefit amount (£2,500), the monthly premium - broken down into each aspect
of the plan hed opted to take out including the unemployment cover, the benefit period, the
initial exclusion period (he couldnt make a claim for the first eight weeks/60 days), the
excess period and cancellation terms. During the calls Ive listened to Mr N was also told
about the exclusions relating to unemployment cover. Im persuaded that the information
was presented in a clear and not misleading way.
He was also sent the key facts document by email. Also attached to the email was his
personal quote issued by R. These documents confirmed the information explained during
the call and that the maximum amount that the policy would pay was 55% of Mr Ns
earnings. The key facts document also confirmed that unemployment cover pays you an
income if youre made redundant or unemployed through no fault of your own, or if you have
to give up work to look after a relative full-time.
Mr N was told about the cooling off period during the third call and he was asked to read the
policy documents hed been sent carefully to ensure that he was happy with the policy
underwritten by R.
Mr N is unhappy that he was able to successfully claim the unemployment benefit under the
policy he had with C, but that the claim he made to R was declined  in the same set of
circumstances.
R says it declined the claim based on information provided by Mr Ns (former) employerwhich resulted in it concluding that he didnt meet the unemployment definition of the policy.
C took a different view and accepted the claim under the terms of its policy so, I can
understand why Mr N would be confused by this. But that doesnt automatically mean that
the policy underwritten by R he took out via Best Risk was mis-sold to him.
Best Risk provided information about the terms of the policy underwritten by R (including the
main exclusions relating to the unemployment cover) in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
And in light of that information, it was for Mr N to decide whether the policy was right for him.
The policy underwritten by C
I know Mr R subsequently took out additional cover via Best Risk later in April 2016, to
include accident, sickness and unemployment cover and it was for him to choose at that
point  based on the information hed been given  whether he wanted to cancel the policy
underwritten by R and opt for the full unemployment benefit under the policy underwritten by
C. He wouldve still been within his cooling off period if hed done so. But he chose not to do
this. Ive seen nothing to say that he spoke to Best Risk at that time or raised any queries at
the point of taking out that policy.
I can see, however, a couple of months after the policy underwritten by C was taken out, Mr
N contacted Best Risks representative asking whether  given the additional policy hed
taken out  he was able to claim the full £650 monthly benefit in the event of a successful
claim under the unemployment section of the policy. Thats because re-reviewing the policy
there was a clause that said that the unemployment benefit was limited to a maximum of
60% of his income.
Best Risks representative emailed to say that he would try to speak to both insurers and get
back to him. And that before adding additional covers it wouldve been better if Mr N had
called Best Risk to discuss. If Mr N was unable to claim the full benefit as a result of taking
out the policy underwritten by C, he was given the potential options available to him.
Thereafter, Ive also seen an email from Mr N to say: Just take into account the 55% limit
set by [R] and amend my [C] insurance monthly premium accordingly please. And Best
Risks representative subsequently replied that the adjustments had been made and the
premium had been reduced on the policy underwritten by C. He also said: In the event of a
claim it will pay out £456.00 (reduced from £650.00) so this means that between both
policies you would be paid a total of £2,956 which keeps you within 55% of your gross
taxable income of policy R.
Mr N says that around this time, he was told that the policy underwritten by R was superior
to the policy underwritten by C and that he should increase the unemployment benefit under
the former policy and cancel the unemployment cover underwritten by C. He says if hed
done this, he wouldve have been prevented from successfully claiming the monthly
unemployment benefit of £456 made on the policy underwritten by C  and wouldve ended
up with nothing under the policy underwritten by R.
Even if I accepted Mr Ns submissions about what was said during a conversation with Best
Risks representative at the time, and anything was said that made him feel in any way
pressured to extend the benefit of the policy underwritten by R rather than continue with a
smaller unemployment benefit with C, he didnt end up doing that. So, Im not persuaded that
this has had detrimental impact on him in any way.
And Im not persuaded that he wouldve instead opted to increase the monthlyunemployment benefit on the policy underwritten by C and reduce the monthly
unemployment benefit under the policy provided by R because he didnt choose to do this
when taking out the policy underwritten by C later in April 2016. Further, from the calls Ive
listened to, Mr N was very keen to include premium waiver with the policy and the policy
underwritten by C didnt include this. So, I think its unlikely he wouldve chosen to increase
the benefit on that policy and thereby increasing the premium (which he wouldve still
needed to pay in the event of a successful claim) rather than reduce the unemployment
benefit of the policy underwritten by R, simultaneously reducing the monthly premium (which
wouldve been covered in the event of a successful claim).
The Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or information. Best Risk 
didnt have anything further to add. Mr N replied querying whether Best Risk had provided all 
call recordings. Thats because he recalls that Best Risks representative did tell him to 
move all my insurance needs to R from insurer C as R was a superior cover and also has 
unemployment waiver. This was around the time when we were re-calculating both the 
insurance limits (R & C) and subsequently reducing my cover from £650 to £456.
He also provided his reasons why he felt it was likely that some recordings may have been 
misplaced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Best Risk has told me that it cant locate a recording of call between Mr N and one of its 
representatives during that time. Its possible that the recording has been misplaced as Mr N 
says.
However, as I said in my provisional decision, even if I accepted Mr Ns submissions about a 
call taking place and that something was said that made him feel in any way pressured to 
extend the benefit of the policy underwritten by R rather than continue with a smaller 
unemployment benefit with C, he didnt end up doing that. So, Im not persuaded that this 
has had a detrimental impact on him in any way.
And I still dont think that Mr N wouldve instead opted to increase the monthly
unemployment benefit on the policy underwritten by C and reduce the monthly
unemployment benefit under the policy provided by R because he didnt choose to do this
when taking out the policy underwritten by C at the end of April 2016. 
Further, as I also said in my provisional decision, from the calls Ive listened to, Mr N was 
very keen to include premium waiver with the policy and the policy underwritten by C didnt 
include this. So, I think its unlikely he wouldve chosen to increase the benefit on that policy 
and thereby increasing the premium (which he wouldve still needed to pay in the event of a 
successful claim) rather than reduce the unemployment benefit of the policy underwritten by 
R, simultaneously reducing the monthly premium (which wouldve been covered in the event 
of a successful claim).
So, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision (an extract of which 
appears in the background of this decision), I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman