DRN-2773484
The complaint
Mr G complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) refused to allow him to withdraw 
funds from his account, having previously agreed to do so. 
What happened
Mr G says he was expecting a universal credit payment of £64.54 into his Nationwide 
account but as he was already overdrawn by approximately £35, he telephoned Nationwide 
to arrange the withdrawal of the full amount to be credited. Nationwide agreed he could 
withdraw the full amount expected from a universal credit payment, but he needed to repay 
the remaining overdraft by the 24th March. Mr G says when he telephoned Nationwide, on 
the day the funds had credited his account, he was then told he could only withdraw a further 
£10. Mr G complained and says it took a number of days for Nationwide to agree to the 
withdrawal of these monies which had caused him upset and inconvenience. 
Mr G says although Nationwide paid him £75 by way of apology, he felt compelled to accept 
it at the time and even then, it took them a number of days to pay him this sum, despite the 
fact he was told he would receive the monies by faster payment.   
Nationwide says they have apologised for the service issues and feel the £75 paid to Mr G 
by way of compensation was fair. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says while Mr G wasnt fairly treated when he went to withdraw the full amount 
of his universal credit payment, the compensation paid by Nationwide was sufficient.
Mr G wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I was sorry to see that Mr G was experiencing financial problems due to a smaller than 
expected universal credit payment and this must have been a worrying time for him. I can 
also understand the fact Nationwide had agreed for him to access the monies due from 
universal credit and then tell him otherwise later, would have been upsetting and frustrating. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider whether the amount of compensation paid to 
Mr G was sufficient for the trouble and upset caused. 
What happened here was Mr G arranged with Nationwide to withdraw the full amount of his 
universal credit payment despite him being in an unarranged overdraft position. Mr G says 
despite him making those arrangements with Nationwide on the day it came to withdraw the 
monies he was told he could only access £10 of the funds. Mr G then rang and complained 
to Nationwide on a number of occasions to check with them if he could access the monies 
and this caused him inconvenience and meant he went without for a number of days. 
Mr G says even when Nationwide approved the withdrawal and paid him £75 by way of 
compensation, it took them several days to make this payment, when he had been assured 
this would be made by faster payment method. 
I understand the points Mr G has made and have listened to a number of telephone calls 
made to Nationwide when considering this complaint. I am satisfied, like the investigator, 
Nationwide had agreed to allow Mr G to withdraw the full amount of his universal credit 
payment when it arrived in his account with them on the 25th February 2021 and the small 
overdraft remaining, should then be repaid by the 24th March 2021. 
Its not clear why Nationwide then told Mr G he could only withdraw £10, although part of 
that decision may have been due to the fact Mr G had withdrawn £20 by way of an online 
payment. That said this was still inconsistent with what was originally agreed by them.
Having said that, Nationwide did deal with Mr Gs complaint and within four days of lodging 
the complaint, Mr G had been given access to the full amount he asked for. From the 
information I have seen Nationwide have accepted their service shortfalls and have paid Mr 
G £75 in recognition of the inconvenience this has caused. 
Mr G says he felt pressured to accept the compensation payment offered by Nationwide but 
on reflection he doesnt feel it is sufficient for what he has gone through. Mr G is also 
unhappy for the time it took for Nationwide to pay the compensation after he was told he 
would be paid by faster payment.
Its worth saying that its not usually the role of this service to look at issues relating to how 
complaints are handled by building societies like Nationwide, but I am satisfied the 
compensation was paid within an acceptable time scale. 
While Mr G may not agree, I am satisfied £75 is a reasonable amount of compensation here, 
I say this because Mr G had access to these monies within four days and although this was 
longer than he had agreed initially with Nationwide, this was dealt with fairly swiftly and  
allowed the unauthorised overdraft to remain on the account for a further four weeks.  
I am satisfied Nationwide have shown forbearance here and despite the error they made 
when the universal credit payment arrived, they have now compensated Mr G for that. 
While Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman