DRN-4189079
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank PLC unfairly blocked his accounts and took too long to 
release the money in his accounts back to him. He says this caused him a lot of problems 
and he wants compensation.
What happened
Mr Y had two accounts with Barclays  a current account and savings account. 
In February 2023, Barclays reviewed Mr Ys accounts after it had received a fraud report 
from another bank concerning £200 which had been paid into Mr Ys current account. Whilst 
it completed its review Barclays blocked Mr Ys accounts  which meant Mr Y couldnt 
access any money in the accounts. During its review Barclays asked Mr Y to provide 
information about a number of other credits that had been paid into his account in February 
2023. Mr Y provided what he could about the payments to Barclays. And said he was happy 
for Barclays to return the £200 back to the sending bank. 
Following its review, Barclays decided to close Mr Ys accounts immediately. Barclays wrote 
to Mr Y on 14 March 2023 giving him notice that hed need to make alternative banking 
arrangements. And asked him to provide proof of his entitlement to the funds remaining in 
his account so that it could release his balance. At the time Mr Ys balance was around 
£7,400. Mr Y sent Barclays some information. Barclays looked at the information and said it 
wasnt enough to show Mr Y was entitled to the money in his account. So, on 24 March 
2023, the bank sent him another letter asking for more information, including information 
about the £200 credit. Mr Y responded and sent in further information. Barclays wrote to 
Mr Y again on 12 April 2023 and 4 May 2023, asking him about the £200 credit only.
On 17 May 2023, having reviewed the information Mr Y provided, Barclays said it was happy 
for Mr Y to attend a branch to get the balance of his account, not including the £200 credit. 
Mr Y went into a branch on 1 June 2023 and withdrew his funds.
Mr Y complained to Barclays about the restrictions on his accounts. He telephoned Barclays 
to try and find out what was happening with his accounts and the reasons behind the banks 
actions. He told Barclays that he suspected the bank had blocked his accounts because of 
certain transactions that came into his account which were linked to overseas business he 
was doing. He said he felt Barclays were discriminating against him on the basis of his 
nationality.  And that the bank had taken a long time to release his money. Barclays didnt 
provide Mr Y with much information and said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in 
line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations. 
Mr Y wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that the restrictions on his account meant hed struggled financially, and it was 
very difficult to provide for his family as he couldnt access the money in his accounts. He 
also said his mental health suffered. He said that the whole experience had been upsetting 
and stressful for him. So, Barclays should pay him compensation. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ys accounts. She said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated Mr Y fairly when it decided to close his 
accounts. However, she said Barclays took too long to release Mr Ys funds back to him. 
Based on the evidence, she said Barclays could have released Mr Ys funds on 12 April 
2023, because by that time the bank was happy with the information Mr Y had provided 
about most of money in his account. And only had concerns with the £200 credit. So, she 
said Barclays had kept Mr Ys funds for longer  than it should have done. She said Barclays 
should pay Mr Y £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused 
him. And 8% simple interest on the balance of Mr Ys accounts from 12 April  17 May 2023. 
Barclays accepted what the investigator said. Mr Y disagreed. He said the amount of 
compensation doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset hed suffered. He 
wants more compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Barclays has extensive legal and 
regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, 
and to prevent and detect financial crime. To fulfil these obligations Barclays may need to 
review activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information, for example 
about payments, and information about the individuals operating the accounts  its entitled 
and obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Mr Ys account also permit Barclays to 
review an account and ask its customers for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Barclays to block Mr Ys accounts. Barclays has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Barclays were complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. And it enabled Barclays to consider how best to 
react to the information it had received from the sending bank about the £200 payment and 
what Mr Y said about it. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr Y inconvenience 
and upset when it decided to block his accounts and ask him to provide information, I cant 
say the bank did anything wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
However, while Barclays are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Wed also expect them to release a customers 
money as soon as it had completed its enquiries and was happy to do so. Barclays initially 
blocked Mr Ys account on 27 February 2023.  I can see that Barclays asked Mr Y to provide 
it with information and Mr Y did so. And that by 12 April 2023 Barclays were only asking 
Mr Y about the £200 credit in February 2023, which suggests to me the bank was satisfied 
that Mr Y was entitled to the other money in his accounts. And had no further concerns. 
However, it wasnt until 17 May 2023, that Barclays advised Mr Y could access his money by 
going into a branch. Barclays hasnt offered any explanation for why it didnt let M Y know 
sooner than it did that he could access his money. So, Im satisfied Barclays has caused 
unnecessary delays in releasing Mr Ys funds to him.
Barclays has accepted it should have told Mr Y that he could get his money in April 2023 
rather than in May 2023. Barclays has agreed with the investigators view to pay Mr Y £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay, together with 8% 
interest for loss of use of his funds. 
In response to the investigators view Mr Y said Barclays actions had caused him financial 
problems, which meant he couldnt provide for his family. Hes also said that the restrictions 
caused him stress, anxiety and that his health suffered. So, he says the compensation 
offered isnt enough to reflect the amount of trouble, financial loss and upset hes suffered. 
Ive considered what Mr Y has said about how Barclayss actions impacted him. But Ive not 
seen any evidence that Mr Y lost out financially due Barclays actions. Ive no doubt this was 
a worrying and upsetting time for Mr Y but for me to award more compensation Id have to 
be satisfied that the delays caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience and financial 
loss. And despite being asked to do so Mr Y hasnt provided evidence to support his 
financial losses. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Barclays to pay financial loss or 
compensation for something theres no evidence of.  
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact 
Barclayss actions have had on Mr Y and decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say the delays in releasing Mr Ys funds 
caused Mr Y worry and upset. And I agree some compensation is appropriate for this. I say 
this because Mr Y had to spend time contacting Barclays and he had to wait more than a 
month for Barclays to release his funds after the bank had completed its enquiries. So, I can 
appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient and upsetting for him. And its only right that 
Barclays recognises this. However, Im satisfied that £150 along with 8% interest is a fair 
amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr Y was caused. So, 
while Mr Y may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation recommended by the 
investigator recognises the impact Barclayss actions had in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. So, I wont be directing Barclays to pay any more.    
Ive next gone on to consider whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mr Ys accounts. 
Its generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Barclays have relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Ys accounts in closing them. The 
terms and conditions outline that Barclays can close a customers account with two months 
notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case the 
Barclays closed Mr Ys accounts immediately. For Barclays to act fairly here they needed to 
meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these 
terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that Barclays did. So, it was entitled to close the 
accounts as its already done. 
Mr Y has also said that he feels Barclays discriminated against him when they blocked and 
closed his accounts. While I can appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide 
whether discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the power to decide this. I 
have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr Y has said when deciding 
what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the 
provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that Barclays decided to 
close the accounts for an improper reason.In summary, its clearly caused Mr Y trouble and upset when he wasnt able to use his 
accounts and he had to wait longer than he needed to get his money I appreciate it must 
have been a worrying and frustrating time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my 
decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent 
found grounds to increase the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that £150 
compensation along with 8% simple interest is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be telling 
Barclays to do anything else to resolve Mr Ys complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Pay Mr Y £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for 
Barclays to release the money in his account back to him
Pay Mr Y 8% simple interest on his total account balances between 12 April and 17 
May 2023
HM Revenue & Customs require Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax from the 
above mentioned interest. Barclays should give Mr Y a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman