DRN-3744502
The complaint
Mrs K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) provided poor service when she 
claimed under her HomeCare policy for a bathroom leak and allowed more damage to occur.
What happened
Mrs K held a home emergency insurance policy with BG. On 8 August 2020 she noticed a 
leak in her bathroom and called BG and an engineer came and said hed fixed a leaking 
pipe. However, Mrs K found water in the kitchen the next day as the bath had leaked again. 
She said only a loose tap had been fixed and so she called again and two engineers visited 
on 11 August and said they had fixed the leak, but more water escaped to the kitchen. 
Mrs K got another appointment for 29 August, but nobody from BG turned up. BG said there 
was no response at her address, but Mrs K said the engineer went to the wrong address. 
Mrs K said the ceiling was continuously leaking and she made another appointment for the 
next day. The engineer said it was obvious that a pipe had separated and said a spare part 
was needed and BG would call her when it was available. 
When Mrs K didnt hear back from BG she called again and was directed to another firm who 
said the spare part had been ordered. However, nothing happened until October when she 
was told that the part was available, but the engineer who attended was unaware of the 
issue and couldnt fix the problem. She said a further appointment was missed by BG on 20 
October. Mrs K complained to BG about the service she had received.
BG responded to Mrs Ks complaint by apologising and paying her £110 compensation for 
her inconvenience and distress. But BG said its engineers hadnt told her the bath was safe 
to use and the ceiling damage was consequential to the leak and not caused by its engineer, 
and so wouldnt be covered by BG.
Mrs K said she was advised her ceiling needed to be replaced and she claimed from her 
home insurer. She said her insurer wanted a damage report from BG, but BG didnt provide 
it. Mrs Ks insurer declined her claim after its surveyor inspected the damage and said it was 
worsened by escapes of water when the bath plumbing hadnt been repaired. Mrs K said BG 
had told her on its later inspection that the problem was due to a faulty overflow pipe. 
Mrs K said her ceiling remained in a very poor state and the bath has been unusable for 
several months affecting her family. Mrs K wants compensation for the repairs required, the 
further damage that has been present for over a year and for her wasted time. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Mrs K was incorrectly 
told her bath was safe to use by BGs engineer in August 2020, leading to significant water 
damage. He said BG should arrange for repairs and pay her £400 compensation.
BG requested an ombudsman review the complaint. BG said the engineers notes showed 
that Mrs K was told not to use the bath on 30 August 2020. The investigator said this was 
after the damage occurred and a previous engineers visit when this advice wasnt given. BG 
thought the recommended compensation of £400 was extremely high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at BGs handling and decisions on Mrs Ks claim to see if it has acted 
in accordance with her policy and to see if it has treated her fairly. 
The parties disagree as to whether BGs engineer told Mrs K her bath was safe to use after 
carrying out work in August 2020. This is important because after the initial visit the bath was 
used and much more water escaped causing widespread ceiling damage in the kitchen 
below. From the engineers report of the first visit theres the comment Re-sealed overflow 
on bath. Theres no reference to the requirement for a part or further repairs and so I think 
this is consistent with the engineer telling Mrs K that the bath was fixed and therefore safe to 
use.
Mrs Ks family continued to use the bath and further damage occurred. Mrs K re-contacted 
BG and a further engineer visited on 30 August 2020 and told her not to use the bath as a 
part was required for the overflow. It seems clear from this that a disconnected pipe was to 
blame for the leak and this had been missed on the earlier engineers visit. I think there was 
already minor damage to the ceiling but then a lot more damage followed on from the initial 
failure to identify the cause of the leak. 
I can see from the engineers records and what Mrs K has said about the inconvenience for 
her family in not being able to use the bath for a period of time and some missed and 
delayed appointments. And she has also had the worry of not knowing if her ceiling would 
collapse following the water damage. 
Putting things right
I havent seen any evidence from BG to challenge the investigators findings and outcome to 
the complaint and I am in agreement with those findings. It follows that I require BG to fully 
repair the damage to Mrs Ks ceiling and pay her £400 compensation for the inconvenience 
and distress BGs poor handling of her claim has caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to arrange for the repair of Mrs Ks ceiling or pay her 
the amount required to do the work based on a reasonable estimate. I also require British 
Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs K £400 compensation for the inconvenience and distress 
its poor service has caused her. BG can deduct the £110 it has already paid Mrs K from this 
amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman