DRN-3064273
The complaint
Mr C complains UK Credit Limited have caused him distress and suffering by approving him 
for a guarantor loan.
What happened
Mr C was accepted for a guarantor loan with UK Credit in August 2016.
UK Credit previously upheld a complaint about the affordability of the loan. Mr C brought this 
complaint to our service as he said the redress didnt cover the damage, distress and 
psychological impact the loan had on him. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, he said:
UK Credit had followed our approach to redress when looking to put Mr C back in the 
financial position he would have been in had the lending not been agreed; and 
There was no evidence that UK Credit had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr C in any other way. 
UK Credit didnt respond to our investigators outcome. Mr C disagreed. He said UK Credit 
was a contributing factor to him declaring himself bankrupt. He said UK Credit caused him 
financial harm and negatively impacted his health. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review, so the compliant has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has put much weight on UK Credit causing him financial difficulties and negatively 
affecting his health. Id like to assure Mr C Ive carefully considered his testimony here. 
Its clear Mr C was experiencing financial problems before he approached UK Credit for this 
loan; and its clear these financial problems continued after the loan was approved. I say this 
because Ive reviewed the credit file UK Credit obtained as part of its checks before 
approving the loan in 2016; and a more recent credit file it obtained in 2020. 
I can see adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file prior to the lending with UK 
Credit; and further borrowing and adverse information after it too. Mr C had defaulted on 
around 12 credit accounts within the two years leading up to this loan. And had taken further 
finance after the UK Credit loan was approved, before being declared bankrupt. This 
suggests Mr Cs financial situation was already showing signs of distress; and its clear there 
were many factors contributing to this before and after UK Credits decision to lend.
Ive considered whether UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably outside of its decision to 
lend to Mr C; but Ive seen no evidence within the file to suggest it has. 
I dont doubt Mr Cs testimony as to how he feels hes been impacted by this loan with UK 
Credit; and Im sorry to hear of his difficulties. But based on the above I cant reasonably 
solely attribute Mr Cs financial difficulties and mental health to UK Credits decision to lend.
So, for the reasons set out above I cant fairly conclude UK Credit needs to make a payment 
to Mr C for distress, pain or suffering because of its decision to lend. Therefore, UK Credit 
doesnt need to take any further action in resolution of Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint 
about UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman