DRN-3640059
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited (LV). Shes unhappy with 
how LV settled the death benefit under a Pension Term Assurance (PTA) policy held in her 
and her late ex-husbands name.
What happened
In September 2006, while married, Mrs L and her then husband, the late Mr L, took out a 
PTA policy on a joint life basis. 
Mr and Mrs L divorced in 2015 and Mr L remarried in 2018. Ill refer to Mr Ls second wife as, 
Mrs L2. 
In May 2021, LV was notified that Mr L had sadly passed away. Following this, LV began an 
investigation to determine who should receive the death benefit under the PTA policy. As 
part of this it spoke with and requested information from individuals considered to be 
potential beneficiaries. Given the enquiries and various considerations involved, the process 
was lengthy, and it wasnt until January 2022 that LV was able to confirm who it would be 
paying the death benefit to.
LV outlined its decision in a letter to Mrs L where, in summary, it said that:
Although the PTA policy had been taken out on a joint life basis while Mr and Mrs L 
were married, Mr L had been the sole premium payer.
It hadnt received any contemporary evidence following Mr and Mrs Ls divorce, 
demonstrating that Mr L wanted Mrs L to benefit from the PTA policy in the event of 
his death. 
Mr and Mrs Ls divorce settlement included a pension sharing annex, but this didnt 
set out their intentions for the PTA policy.
Although the death benefit payment didnt form part of his estate, Mr Ls wishes in his 
Will were clear in that, other than his share in his business, he left everything else to 
Mrs L2.
Following Mr and Mrs Ls divorce, it was reasonable to conclude that Mrs L no longer 
had a relationship of financial dependency or interdependency with Mr L. Mrs L2 was 
financially dependent on Mr L.
 
Mrs L disagreed with LVs decision and later complained. She said that as she was the 
named beneficiary on the PTA policy, LV had incorrectly paid out the death benefit to        
Mrs L2.
LV responded to Mrs Ls complaint, reiterating the contents of its earlier letter, and 
confirming that it stood by its decision to pay the death benefit to Mrs L2.
Unhappy with LVs response, Mrs L referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and said she didnt think LV had done anything wrong in 
the circumstances. She noted concerns Mrs L had raised about LV having provided 
assurances that shed receive the death benefit due to her name being on the PTA policy. 
However, she explained that she hadnt seen anything from the available evidence which 
confirmed this happened.
Mrs L disagreed with our investigator and, in summary, said:
Although Mr L had changed his Will so his assets went to Mrs L2, hed not changed 
the PTA policy because his intention was that she would benefit from it in the event 
of his death. The reason for this was that, at the time of their divorce, shed agreed 
not to take her share of the business theyd built together despite being entitled to do 
so.
LV had called her, insisting that as she was named on the policy the death benefit 
was hers, irrespective of her divorce from Mr L or him remarrying. LV had taken her 
bank details following this, so for it to then pay the death benefit to Mrs L2 was highly 
inappropriate.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing to Mrs L, but Ill explain why. However, before I do, I should emphasise that 
while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, Ive limited my response to 
the issue I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say, whether LV was entitled to 
exercise discretion in deciding to whom the death benefit would be paid. And if so, did it 
exercise its discretion appropriately.
Mrs Ls view is that LV didnt distribute the death benefit from the PTA policy fairly. First, she 
says that as only Mr L and herself were named on the policy, it was clear that any proceeds 
from it were meant for them and no one else. Shes also explained that the continuance of 
the policy after she and Mr L separated was part of an agreement they had when they 
divorced. Specifically, she says they agreed to leave the policy in place, providing that Mrs L 
agreed not to take her entitlement to half of their family business. She says that part of the 
agreement also involved Mr L committing to ensuring the family business was, as she 
wished, ultimately left to their four sons. And this is something which Mr L ultimately 
honoured in his Will.
At this point I think it would be helpful to explain what a PTA policy is and outline the rules 
and conditions underpinning the one Mr and Mrs L had with LV.
A PTA policy is a personal pension policy which is a pure protection contract, providing a 
lump sum on death. Essentially, it provides life cover which, because of pension legislation 
at the time, allowed policy holders to enjoy the same tax relief on their insurance premiums 
as they would on their pension contributions, making the cover much cheaper than 
traditional life cover. In line with this, LVs Key Features Document (KFD) and Policy 
Conditions confirmed that the PTA policy was written under its pension scheme rules. And 
as Mr and Mrs Ls policy was issued on a joint life basis, LVs KFD said:
() you will both be the policy holders and responsible for your share of premiums. Each of 
you will pay equal amounts of each premium.In terms of what would happen in the event of a policy holders death, the KFD stated:
() the proceeds from your policy will be paid out at the discretion of the Scheme 
Administrator, Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited, normally to a financial dependant. 
You can nominate potential beneficiaries for consideration by the Scheme Administrator.
LVs Policy Conditions defined a dependant as:
() Your spouse, civil partner, child or other financial dependant.
Mrs Ls view of how the PTA policy worked appears to differ from whats set out in the 
relevant policy conditions and KFD. However, having carefully considered how these 
underpin the policy, Im satisfied that:
Being named policyholders didnt mean that, depending on who died first, Mr or    
Mrs L would be the sole beneficiaries of the death benefit under the policy. 
The death benefit didnt form part of Mr Ls estate. The main reason for this was so 
that the death benefit paid from the policy wasnt subject to inheritance tax.
Mr and Mrs L were able to nominate potential beneficiaries which LV could consider 
but, ultimately, didnt have to follow. 
LV was acting in line with its scheme rules in using its discretion to pay the death 
benefit to whomever it decided was a rightful recipient. Ordinarily, this person would 
be a financial dependant.
Turning now to whether LV took reasonable steps in using its discretion to pay the
death benefit. When exercising its discretion LV needed to consider all relevant factors and 
disregard irrelevant factors. And it needed to ask the right questions. It also had to construe 
the legal position correctly, and not come to a decision which was unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
Sometimes deciding who to make a death benefit payment to is straightforward. In other 
cases, the situation will be more complex, and the decision maker will have to weigh up the 
facts and, in some cases, competing interests from potential beneficiaries. Although the 
decision maker must, as I have said, take into account all relevant factors, it is for the 
decision maker to determine what weight to attach to a particular factor.
LV considered Mrs L as a potential beneficiary. It did this having reviewed the available 
statements and evidence provided by the relevant parties. Amongst other things this 
confirmed, but wasnt limited to, the following:
Mr L was the sole premium payer of the PTA policy.
Mr L never provided LV with a nomination for who hed like the death benefit to be paid to. 
However, as the remaining policyholder Mrs L would be considered a potential beneficiary.
Although the death benefit didnt form part of Mr Ls estate, LV considered Mr Ls Will 
for an indication of what Mr Ls wishes were. Mr Ls Will stated he wished to leave 
everything (except for his share of the family business) to Mrs L2.
As part of their divorce, Mr and Mrs L secured and agreed to a clean break order 
which severed all their financial ties and protected them from further financial claims 
in the future. By consenting to the order, Mrs L confirmed that she no longer had a 
relationship of financial dependency or interdependency with Mr L. As part of the 
divorce agreement, under pension sharing annex, Mrs L was awarded £255,000 and 
claims on two of Mr Ls pensions. There was no mention of the PTA policy or any 
agreement between Mr and Mrs L that the death benefit under it should go to Mrs L. Mrs L was, on several occasions, invited to supply evidence of the agreement she 
says she had with Mr L, however, she confirmed this was never documented. 
Mr Ls children werent financially dependent on him at the date of his death. 
Although Mrs L said her sons didnt wish to make a claim for the death benefit, they 
had concerns about confirming this in writing. However, Mr and Mrs Ls eldest son 
who, along with one of his brothers and Mrs L2, was named an executor of Mr Ls 
Will, said it was his belief that Mr and Mrs L had set up the PTA policy to provide for 
their family in the future if anything happened to them.
Mrs L2 confirmed she was the sole financial dependent of Mr L and that hed 
intended to support her after his death  benefiting from the death benefit under the 
PTA policy was part of this. 
LVs investigations established that there was financial dependency between Mr L and Mrs 
L2. I consider that it was firstly reasonable for LV to identify the recipient of the death benefit 
based on which potential beneficiary (if any) was financially dependent on the late Mr L. And 
secondly, that the evidence from the parties as to whether they met this test was reasonably 
applied by LV in reaching its decision about payment of the death benefit.
I havent seen anything to conclude that LV acted unreasonably in allocating the death 
benefit as it did. From what Ive seen, LV carried out a full and detailed fact find before it 
considered any claim. In doing so it made sure it gathered all relevant information to ensure 
it was making an informed decision. I cant see that LV has been provided with persuasive 
evidence to support Mrs Ls claim that the death benefit has been wrongly paid to Mrs L2.
I understand that Mrs L feels very strongly that LV has made the wrong decision, but I 
cannot second-guess its decision or substitute my own finding as to who the death benefit 
payment should be made to. LV is entitled to make that decision and it is not for me to 
review that decision.
In addition to her concerns around LVs payment of the death benefit, Ive considered what 
Mrs L says LV told her about her claim for the death benefit. Specifically, Mrs L says she 
was told that irrespective of the fact that she and Mr L had divorced, the death benefit was 
automatically hers because she was named on the policy.
Im aware that Mrs L considers LV acted inappropriately in the circumstances. However, 
having listened to recordings of the fourteen calls Mrs L had with LV during the claim 
process, I havent found anything which reflects Mrs Ls recollection of what she was told, 
especially not that she was essentially provided with a guarantee that the death benefit was 
hers.
As Mrs L was repeatedly told at the time, LV was investigating the death benefit claims and it 
wasnt until this enquiry concluded that itd be able to say who the death benefit would be 
paid to. So, on balance, I think it would be unusual for a representative of LV to confirm an 
outcome regarding this without being in full possession of the facts needed to consider the 
matter. 
I appreciate what Mrs L feels strongly about her recollection of events, however in the 
absence of anything to show that Mrs L was told what she says she was, Im afraid, Im 
unable to conclude that LV has done anything wrong in the way shes suggested. 
While I havent found in Mrs Ls favour, in that I dont think LV has done anything wrong 
regarding the issues Mrs L has raised, I should say that I do have sympathy for her. Its clear 
that dealing with this complaint, stemming from her ex-husband very sadly passing away 
hasnt been easy. Mrs L has my deepest sympathy.Overall, Im satisfied LV could distribute the late Mr Ls death benefit using its discretion and 
that it used this discretion in a fair and reasonable way. So, I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman