DRN-3897059
The complaint
Miss J complains that a new fixed interest rate mortgage deal she requested with Santander 
UK Plc in September 2021 wasnt applied to her account.
What happened
Miss J has a residential mortgage with Santander. She told us that she does sometimes stay 
away from home and allows a friend to live in her property occasionally, however it remains 
her main residence. But she said Santander thought she was renting out her property, so it 
cancelled her application for a new fixed interest rate mortgage.
Miss J said Santander didnt tell her it was doing that. Although it says it has written to her a 
number of times, she didnt get these letters. She has asked for email rather than post. 
Miss J said shes enquired about new fixed rates now, and they are all much higher, so she 
wants Santander to reinstate the rate it offered her in September 2021. Miss J said she 
complained to Santander and shes been offered £100, but thats nothing like the losses she 
has suffered by having the lower rate she was offered in 2021 removed.
Miss J also said if Santander couldnt reinstate the rate she wanted from summer 2021, then 
it should allow her to remortgage elsewhere with no early repayment charge (ERC). She 
said if she moved her mortgage now she would need to pay over £1,000, and that wasnt fair 
because Santander was forcing her to move.
Santander has shown our service that in April 2018, Miss J applied to her local authority for 
a licence which allows Miss J to rent out her property. The licence was granted in November 
2018, and it gives Miss Js address, which is not that of the mortgaged property. 
Santander also told us that Miss J wrote to it in April 2018, to say she had been letting out 
one room in her property, which she said she did to make sure the property was cared for 
while she needed to spend an extended period away from home, due to family illness. This 
letter was apparently written in response to Santanders letter saying Miss J had breached 
the terms of her mortgage by letting out the property.
After this, Santanders notes show it has requested proof that Miss J was no longer letting 
the property, on a number of occasions. It has shown our service these letters. And it said it 
didnt receive this proof until after Miss J complained about the rate she was paying, in 
summer 2022.
Santander said Miss J applied online for a new fixed rate mortgage in September 2021, but it 
cancelled that application because it still thought she was letting out her home. Santander 
has also shown us the letter it sent Miss J at the time which said this. Santander told us this 
was sent to Miss J by email.
Santander didnt think it had made a mistake by cancelling Miss Js September 2021 
remortgage application. It had paid £100 for some difficulties she had more recently, in 
updating her address and providing relevant evidence to remove the unauthorised letting 
marker on her account, but it wouldnt do more than this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Santander had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. She said Santander had shown our service that Miss J 
applied to her local authority for permission to let out the mortgaged property, which was 
granted. And Santander had also shown us that it wrote to Miss J repeatedly after this, with 
no response. It had also written to her to say that it would cancel her September 2021 
application because of this outstanding concern.
Our investigator said what Santander had done was in line with the mortgage terms and 
conditions, which clearly states that Miss J agrees to occupy the whole of the property 
unless consent to let is given, and Santander hadnt given that consent in this case. And our 
investigator also said Santanders mortgage offer terms set out that it can withdraw the offer 
whenever someone has given information about their property which is materially false or 
inaccurate. So she thought Santander was entitled to withdraw the offer, and she noted that 
Santander did tell Miss J it had done so.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had to reinstate the September 2021 offer, or waive 
any applicable early repayment charge if Miss J wanted to pay off the mortgage now. 
Miss J didnt agree. She said she had showed a branch of Santander that she would have a 
lodger in 2016 to 2017, and she said it was agreed then that if her situation was to change 
she would let Santander know. But she said it didnt change, so she didnt need to let 
Santander know. Miss J said her September 2021 remortgage application had been 
accepted, she was given a new fixed interest rate deal, and she wanted to know why the 
system would let her proceed with that application.
Miss J also said her previous fixed rate ended in January 2022. But she didnt get any 
reminder letter in January about that. She said if the September rate change hadnt been 
agreed, then Santander shouldve written to her in January 2022 to tell her that her rate was 
changing. She wanted to know why that hadnt happened.
Miss J also said when she raised a complaint, Santanders staff wouldnt let her submit the 
relevant documentation right away, but charged her a higher interest rate for another month. 
She said interest rates rose even further in this time, so £100 in compensation didnt make 
up for that. Miss J said Santander was just doing all this to make money out of her.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said Santander told Miss J that her September 
application was cancelled the day after it was made. And she said Santander would need to 
look into Miss Js concern that she wasnt told in January that her previous fixed interest rate 
was coming to an end, before our service could deal with that issue.
Miss J replied to say she had raised a complaint with Santander, and it had failed to respond 
immediately to that, which caused her further loss. The £100 paid didnt cover that. But our 
investigator still didnt think we could consider what she thought were new complaint points. 
Miss J wrote once more, to say her main complaint was about poor service on her mortgage. 
She said she hadnt broken the terms of her mortgage, because shed been able to show 
Santander that she still lived in the mortgaged property. She just has lodgers, she doesnt 
rent the whole flat out. She said if Santander had previously refused her mortgage because 
she hadnt supplied paperwork, then it should at least give her guidance on what evidence it 
needed in good time, rather than cause further delays and charge a higher rate. She didnt 
think this was a separate complaint.Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was then passed to me for a final 
decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ill set out each of Miss Js complaint points separately, for clarity.
Miss J had told Santander in 2016 or 2017 that she intended to have a lodger, and her
circumstances didnt change after this, so she thought she didnt need to update 
Santander.
I think Santander was clear in 2018, both in its correspondence to the council when the 
council notified Santander about the request for a licence to let, and in its 
correspondence with Miss J, that it didnt consider she had consent to let out her 
property. I do think Miss J needed to respond to these letters, and I would still say this 
even if Miss J had previously told Santander about a lodger in the property.
Miss J didnt get any letters asking her to tell Santander whether she was still living at 
the property.
I have seen the notes which suggest these letters were sent, and copies of the letters 
themselves. I do think they were sent. I note that when Miss J spoke to Santander on 16 
June 2022, she said she sometimes doesnt get post, as the lodgers dont understand 
the importance of these. So I dont think its Santanders fault if she didnt get these 
letters.
Miss Js 2021 remortgage offer was cancelled, and she wasnt told about this.
Miss Js September 2021 application was for a residential mortgage. By this time, 
Santander had repeatedly written to Miss J to say it had concerns that she was in 
breach of her residential mortgage conditions. And it hadnt received any response to 
those letters. I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to conclude, at the time of 
Miss Js September 2021 remortgage application, that Miss J hadnt been fully open and 
honest about the status of her property, and to invoke a clause which allowed it to 
cancel an offer when someone has provided inaccurate information.
I have seen the letter that Santander sent at this time, so I do think Miss J was notified, 
the day after the offer was processed, that it had been cancelled. I know Miss J said she 
wanted her correspondence sent by email, but Santander said this was how the letter 
was sent.
In its 21 June complaint response letter, Santander also noted that Miss J told it, when 
she made her complaint, that she does have three people living at the property and 
paying rent into her Santander account. Miss J says its not a breach of her mortgage for 
those people to live there, because she also resides there, and they are just lodgers. 
But I think Santander had reasonable concerns about Miss Js property, which it had 
asked her repeatedly to respond to. And before June 2022, Miss J hadnt done that. So I 
dont think Santander has to reinstate Miss Js previous mortgage application from 
September 2021 now.
Miss J didnt get notification in January 2022 that her fixed interest rate was ending 
(which she should have received if the September 2021 fixed rate offer wasnt applied).Again, in its complaint response letter of 21 June 2022, Santander said it sent Miss J a 
letter on 4 January 2022, saying her fixed rate was coming to an end. So it does look as 
if this formed part of Miss Js complaint to Santander, and I think we can consider this 
point as part of Miss Js current case with our service.
Santander has shown us this letter of 4 January 2022, and Ive no reason to think it 
wasnt sent. So I do think Santander notified Miss J that her previous fixed interest rate 
was ending, and that her payments would rise. That letter says her monthly payment 
had been around £375, but it would rise in February, and future monthly payments 
would be over £400. I dont think its Santanders fault if Miss J didnt receive this letter, 
and didnt notice this change. 
Santander then delayed in providing Miss J with information she needed to remove the
unauthorised letting marker on her account  delaying any remortgage and charging her
more as a result.
Miss J seems to have made her complaint over the phone, on 16 June. The complaint 
response letter Santander sent on 30 June says Santander had previously agreed to 
send confirmation of the evidence required to remove the unauthorised letting indicator 
from her account. But Santander accepts it didnt send that right away, and its 
apologised for this. It apparently put this right quickly, and the unauthorised letting 
marker was then removed very promptly indeed on 28 June.
I would have expected Santander to take a few working days to review the evidence 
Miss J submitted showing that her property only had lodgers staying there, and she still 
lives there herself. But Miss Js email was processed, her evidence considered, and the 
marker removed in less than three hours from when the evidence was sent by her.
I know Miss J said this delay meant she paid more interest, and rates available to her 
rose again, so she doesnt think the compensation Santander has paid for this is 
enough. But I have to balance the delay Santander initially caused, in not letting Miss J 
know what evidence it would require from her, with how very rapidly Santander actioned 
Miss Js request when it was made. And in these circumstances, I think the payment of 
£100 that Santander has made to say sorry for this short delay, as well as for difficulties 
Miss J had with her evidence in a branch, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this part of her complaint.
Miss J wanted to move her mortgage with no penalty
Our investigator said Santander wouldnt be required to waive any applicable ERC on 
Miss Js mortgage. I wouldnt ask Santander to do that either. But as Miss Js fixed 
interest rate expired in January 2022, and the ERC also stopped being payable after this 
date, then I cant see that an ERC has applied to her mortgage since then. It doesnt 
seem likely that Santander would have asked Miss J to pay an ERC if shed decided to 
remortgage elsewhere after January 2022.
Miss J can of course confirm the current position on this with Santander, if she wishes to 
be clear.
Ive considered each of Miss Js complaint points, as set out above, and I dont think 
Santander has to do more than it has already done. So, although I know that Miss J will 
be disappointed, I dont think her complaint should be upheld.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it had nothing to add. Miss J offered further comments.
Miss J wanted me to understand that she had never broken any terms and conditions of her 
mortgage. She made her payments regularly, and was making small overpayments.
Miss J said that between 2016 and 2017 she had one lodger. She told the council, so she no 
longer paid the single person rate on council tax. Then in 2018 she asked the council what to 
do about having a lodger. The council granted her a licence to rent out her property. Miss J 
said she had told Santanders staff all about this in 2019, when she took out a new mortgage 
deal. She then tried to take out a new deal in mid-2021, but she said she wasnt told then to 
explain the situation of her property to Santander. 
Miss J said she does stay in the property less often now, because she spends time with her 
partner. So she changed her statement preference to email, in 2019, in case she missed any 
useful information. She got her 2019 mortgage offer by post. But she didnt get any 
information about the 2022 rate change, and she thought this should all have been in her 
Santander app instead. 
Miss J said that when she realised, in June 2022, that her monthly mortgage payments had 
gone up in February, she got in touch with Santanders mortgage staff, and found out she 
was on the variable rate. She said no one told her then that she should immediately email or 
fax the documents Santander needed to see, and no one acted to reduce her mortgage 
interest before the June payment was taken. So she said shed been overcharged for 
another month.
Miss J said shed tried to work with Santander, so she felt it should make a reasonable offer 
to cover her losses. She said if not, then Santander should let her pay off the rest of her 
mortgage early, and leave without paying an ERC.
I would like to start by saying that I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss J isnt making 
her regular mortgage payments. 
Miss J now says that she told Santander about the lodger staying in her property in 2019, 
when she remortgaged then. Her remortgage offer was sent in October 2019, and I cant see 
any notes made by Santander to suggest that Miss J had shown Santander proof she was 
living in the property then. It looks as if Miss J has discussed the status of her property with 
Santander from time to time, but then not responded to Santanders requests for written 
evidence that shes still living there too. But even if Miss J had told Santander all it wanted to 
know about her property in 2019, I would still have said she needed to respond to the letter 
Santander sent in 2021, when it cancelled her remortgage offer. 
I said in my provisional decision that I did think Miss J needed to respond to the letters 
Santander sent asking about whether her property was rented out. And I also noted that I 
would still say this even if Miss J had previously told Santander about a lodger in the 
property. Thats partly because Santander wanted proof Miss J was also living in the 
property. But its also because the position of a rented property can change, as indeed it appears to have done here, with Miss J increasing the number of lodgers staying in her 
property, and decreasing the time she spent there. 
So I cant see that Miss J had supplied the proof Santander wanted, to show that she was 
still living in the property. And I think its reasonable for Santander to want that proof, and an 
up to date picture on how her property was let. I do also still think Miss J was asked in 2021 
to explain the position of her property, as Santander was clear that it was concerned her 
property was rented out without authority when it wrote to her to tell her why her mortgage 
deal wasnt going ahead. So I still dont think Santander has to reinstate Miss Js September 
2021 mortgage offer.
Miss J also repeated that she hadnt received anything telling her about the 2022 interest 
rate change, when her previous fixed rate deal ended. But Ive seen a letter from Santander 
about that, and I havent got any reason to think it wasnt sent. Miss J also appears to have 
accepted that sometimes her lodgers dont keep important items of post for her. And it also 
appears that she doesnt log in often to her app, and keep a regular eye on her account. So I 
cant say its Santanders fault that Miss J didnt receive important letters from it, or that she 
didnt notice the change in her monthly payments until that summer. 
I set out in my provisional decision that I accepted Santander had caused a delay in advising 
Miss J how to resolve its concerns about her property being rented out. But I balanced that 
against how very rapidly Santander actioned Miss Js request when it was made, and 
decided against this background that the compensation it suggested was fair. 
Finally, Miss J has also said she wants to leave Santander without paying an ERC. I said in 
my provisional decision that it didnt look to me as if an ERC had been payable, on the 
lending I could see, since February 2022. I would still suggest Miss J checks with Santander, 
to see if an ERC is still payable.
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman