DRN-2711997
The complaint
Mrs R, trading as S, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined the claim she 
made under a commercial insurance policy following losses suffered as a result of the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs R has the benefit of a Complete Retailer commercial insurance policy underwritten by 
Allianz. The policy provides cover for a number of areas, including business interruption. 
Following closure of Ss premises in March 2020 due to the national government-imposed 
lockdown intended to control the spread of COVID-19, Mrs R made a claim on that policy to 
cover Ss losses. 
Allianz declined the claim, saying no cover was provided by the policy in the circumstances. 
Allianz said that there had been no Damage as required by the policy and that COVID-19 
was not included in the specified list of diseases the policy covered. 
Mrs R complained about this decision. And when Allianz did not alter its decision to decline 
the claim, she brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator did not consider the 
complaint should be upheld though. He thought Allianz had fairly applied the terms of the 
policy to the circumstances of the claim. 
Mrs R remained unsatisfied. She said there is nothing in the policy to exclude any new 
illness, that comes into existence after the policy is taken out, from being covered. That 
whooping cough is covered by the policy and this is closely related to COVID-19, so this 
suggests the policy ought to cover COVID-19. That government intervention is not excluded. 
And that reference in the Denial of Access extension to there being damage or not meant 
that there did not have to be physical damage.
As such this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on Mrs R and S. 
But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mrs R took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such Ive considered every aspect of the policy Mrs R 
holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections that would require Allianz to 
meet the claim Mrs R is making. Having done so, I dont think there are. 
The main cover provided by the business interruption section of the policy, along with 
several of the extensions (including Denial of Access) require there to have been 
Damage. This is defined in the policy, but effectively requires there to have been damage 
to or loss of property. 
The reference in the Denial of Access extension is in relation to whether the property in 
question which has been damaged is that owned by the policyholder or not. This extension 
provides cover where access to the premises is denied as a result of damage to property 
outside of the premise  whether that property is owned by the policyholder or not. This still 
though requires there to have been some damage that has led to the interruption.
However, neither COVID-19 nor the government restrictions in response to this caused 
damage to property. This means neither the main business interruption cover nor the 
extensions to this that require there to have been damage apply to the circumstances of this 
claim. And I am unable to conclude Allianz did not act fairly and reasonably when declining 
the claim under these covers. 
The main focus of Mrs Rs argument has been around the Specified Illnesses extension to 
the business interruption section of the policy. This extension provides cover disruption to 
business activities as a direct result of, in part:
a any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence 
of a Specified Illness 
c any occurrence of a Specified illness within a radius of 25 miles of the 
Premises... 
However, the term Specified Illness is defined as meaning an:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, 
Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever an outbreak 
of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.

I note Mrs Rs comments around this list. And I appreciate that it would not be possible for 
COVID-19 to appear on this list, as it had not been identified at the time the policy was 
drafted. However, I must also take into account the way this policy has been drafted.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market, covering 
different risks. Significantly, where cover is provided for losses resulting from the incidence 
of a disease, some policies cover all notifiable diseases, whereas others only provide cover 
in relation to a specific list. 
The Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010 require a doctor, etc. to notify the 
relevant local authority if a patient is suspected of suffering from a notifiable disease. The 
list of notifiable diseases in these regulations is updated as new diseases are identified or 
considered a public health risk, and now includes COVID-19. 
But Allianz didnt provide Mrs Rs policy on this basis. Instead Allianz specified a list of 
diseases that cover related to. It is also worth noting that this list was not the entire list of notifiable diseases as it existed at the time of drafting. It did not, for example, include Severe 
Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which was an identified notifiable disease at the time 
 and is arguably more closely related to COVID-19 than whooping cough. The list also 
included some diseases that are not notifiable diseases in England, such as Chickenpox. 
Allianz defined a finite list of specific diseases it was providing cover for under the policy. I 
dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all illnesses that fall 
outside of the defined list set out above.
As well as only covering some of the notifiable diseases, there is nothing in the policy 
wording (which there could have been if that was what Allianz wanted to cover) which 
suggests that the policy was intended to cover new diseases generally, or new diseases 
added to the notifiable diseases list from time to time. The policy clearly only intended to 
cover some of the known diseases at the point the policy was taken out. And I dont think it 
can fairly and reasonably be read in a different way.
So, cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19. As such, I am satisfied Allianzs decision to decline the 
claim under this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this 
case fair and reasonable. 
Lastly, Mrs R has referred to government intervention not being excluded by the policy. 
However, the policy is based on providing cover for a defined set of risks. In order for a claim 
to be covered by the policy, the circumstances of that claim must first be covered. It is only 
once that point is reached that the relevant exclusions within the policy might be applied. 
And having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area 
of cover that means Allianz should have met this claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mrs R, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why her 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman