DRN-2691232
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs W payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2010.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think Nationwide made Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional, but that she still chose to 
take it. There is evidence that the PPI was presented as a choice, and that there was a 
discussion with the adviser as they filled in responses to questions into a computer form.  
I dont think Nationwide formally assessed Mrs Ws need for PPI or advised her that the PPI 
would suit her particular circumstances. Its likely that it just told Mrs W about the PPI and 
pointed out its benefits; but it then would have been for Mrs W to decide if it fitted what she 
needed, and whether it was worth the cost. 
Nationwide did have to give Mrs W enough information for her to make that decision. And I 
cant now be sure how fully it did that. So Ive thought about whether there is likely to have 
been any extra information that would have changed whether Mrs W took the PPI.  But I 
dont think there was. 
Mrs W took only unemployment cover (and not accident and sickness cover). The conditions 
about what was covered by that, and for claiming, were fairly straightforward. I cant see that 
there were terms in it that were likely to have put her off. 
Mrs W has said the policy wouldnt have covered her because of a medical condition she 
has  she says that shes been told her employer can dismiss her, if her medical condition 
stops her from doing the heavy physical work that is part of her job. She says this would 
have stopped her claiming on the PPI policy. But Ive looked at the policy wording, and the 
exclusions about pre-existing medical conditions only apply to claims made under the 
accident and sickness cover  and Mrs W didnt take that out. I think its likely that, even if 
she had lost her job because of her medical condition, she would still have met the 
requirements for making an unemployment claim under the PPI policy. 
Mrs W has said she wasnt told that, if she reduced her monthly mortgage amount by making 
extra payments, she would have to continue paying the same premium and yet would only 
be able to make a PPI claim for the lower monthly mortgage payment. But I dont have 
evidence that either Mrs W or Nationwide were anticipating that she would overpay her 
mortgage to reduce her monthly mortgage payments. And it isnt, anyway, true that she 
would be entitled only to a lower PPI benefit  the policy is clear that she is entitled to the 
monthly benefit that is shown on her insurance certificate. There is nothing to say this 
monthly benefit would change if her mortgage payments changed. 
Overall, my conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman