DRN-3082599
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited gave him unsuitable advice to invest 
in a guaranteed portfolio plan. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
What happened
This complaint is about advice that was given in 1998 and 1999 by an advisor working for a 
business which is now known as Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. For ease, I will refer to 
the business as Aviva throughout my decision.
In 1998 Aviva recommended Mr W invest £10,000 in an investment bond. In 1999, it 
recommended Mr W invest a further £10,000 in the bond and £3,000 in a mini ISA.
Mr Ws representative says the bond investment was not suitable for him because he had 
limited investment experience and was only prepared to accept a small element of risk. But 
Aviva rated him as an adventurous investor.
Aviva said it couldnt investigate the 1998 sale, because it didnt have any records. And that 
the 1999 sale was suitable based on Mr Ws circumstances at the time.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there 
was enough evidence to say the bonds had been mis-sold.
Mr W didnt agree. His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
There were fixed rate bonds available which would have given Mr W a 7% return. The 
investment bond was likely to underperform these fixed rate bonds based on the 
projected rates of growth set out in the illustration.
Mr W wasnt made aware of the deposit options available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going 
to respond to every single point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The sales happened more than 20 years ago so its not surprising that the evidence is 
incomplete. In circumstances like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  
in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having carefully considered the evidence that is available, together with what both parties 
have told us, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
There are no records from the 1998 sale. But I think its possible for me to make a finding on 
whether the bond was mis-sold in 1998 because there are records about Mr Ws 
circumstances in 1999, and theres nothing to suggest his circumstances had changed 
significantly during that year. 
Mr Ws prime objective was to make the best of my wealth. It seems that, following a 
discussion, he decided he was prepared to take some risk to obtain a potentially higher 
return than a cash deposit account, but he was also attracted to some element of guarantee. 
He was able to invest for around five to six years, to hopefully coincide with his planned 
retirement date.
He had an outstanding loan of around £3,500. Whilst I dont know the detail of the loan, or 
the discussion that took place, I can see that repayment was discussed, but that Mr W was 
happy to continue to make the monthly repayments for the time being. I dont find it was 
inappropriate not to recommend this loan was repaid
Mr W was prepared to take some risk. The bond had the following guarantee:
On the fifth anniversary, the value of units held in the Guaranteed Fund is guaranteed to be 
no less than the premium allocated to that Fund, allowing for any withdrawals, switches and 
the cost of any life cover selected.
I think this would have given Mr W the comfort he needed that he wasnt taking too much 
risk with his money. As his representative has pointed out, he ran the risk of the bond failing 
to out-perform inflation, but it doesnt seem unsuitable that he was recommended to take this 
risk, in return for the possibility of a better return than he would have received in a cash 
account.
Following the bond purchases, Mr W still appeared to have enough money in readily 
accessible accounts to meet his future needs. And was still in receipt of a monthly wage to 
meet his day to day expenditure. He could also have withdrawn up to 10% of his initial 
investment each year without a penalty if hed needed extra money. I havent seen evidence 
that he needed to do this. Overall, I cant conclude he was advised to invest too much of his 
available capital.
It's not clear what other investments were discussed. Mr Ws representative thinks a fixed 
rate bond would have been more suitable for him. But I agree with our investigator that, at 
the time, the guaranteed bond could have been more beneficial as it offered potential returns 
above the Bank of Englands base rate, and allowed Mr W to make annual withdrawals up to 
10% of his initial investment without penalty.
Mr Ws representative has not mentioned the investment of £3,000 in the mini ISA which 
took place following Avivas recommendation in 1999. But, as this formed part of Avivas 
advice, Ive also looked at this. The advisor recommended Mr W invested in a unit trust to 
meet Mr Ws medium to long term capital growth objective. The unit trust invested primarily 
in blue chip UK equities, with some exposure to overseas investment. This investment would have exposed Mr W to some risk. He had some limited knowledge of investment and I can 
see from the recommendation letter that he wanted to take a greater risk with a small portion 
of the money he had available for investment. As this represented around 4% of the capital 
he had available, I dont find it was unsuitable to expose this sum to a higher level of risk. 
This was also set out reasonably clearly in the recommendation letter. Which means I think 
Mr W would have been reasonably aware of the level of risk he was exposed to.
Overall, I dont find the advice given by Aviva was unsuitable given Mr Ws circumstances, 
and investment objectives, at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman