DRN-3233828
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc caused delays when he applied for a mortgage. 
He wants Barclays to refund the costs he incurred when completion of his purchase was 
delayed.
What happened
Mr A approached Barclays for a mortgage on a property he was purchasing. A mortgage 
application was submitted on 26 October 2020, and the mortgage funds were released on 16 
December 2020. 
Mr A had originally agreed with the seller to complete on 2 December 2020. This completion 
date had to be put back, and Mr A incurred interest charges as a result, amounting to around 
£4,500.
Mr A complained to Barclays. But Barclays didnt agree it had made any errors, and didnt 
agree to reimburse him for the interest charges.
Our investigator also didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly. But Mr A doesnt agree, 
and has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see from the information supplied to me that Mr A emailed Barclays on 12 October 2020 to 
say that he had exchanged on a house the previous week. He asked who he should speak 
to about firming up on a mortgage. And he spoke to a Barclays mortgage specialist later that 
week. 
There was further email correspondence between the mortgage adviser and Mr A. And a 
mortgage application was submitted on 26 October 2020. I can see from the information 
supplied to me that this was then reviewed by an underwriter on 2 November, and further 
information requested. But there were some delays in this information being supplied and 
the underwriter didnt receive the information until 26 November. The underwriter then 
approved the application subject to valuation on 27 November. 
I can see from the notes that Mr A was aware at this time that the mortgage was unlikely to 
complete by 2 December 2020. And on 1 December Mr A confirmed that he had been able 
to obtain an extension for completion to 17 December. 
The valuation was received by Barclays on 9 December, and the mortgage offer issued on 
10 December. The mortgage funds were then released to Mr As solicitors on 16 December 
in time for completion.
Barclays says, and I accept, that it normally takes 6-8 weeks for completion on a mortgage 
application. As the mortgage application was submitted on 26 October 2020 and the funds 
released on 16 December 2020 this was (just) within that timescale. 
I appreciate that Mr A originally wanted to complete on his purchase by 2 December 2020. 
And Im also satisfied that he incurred interest charges when he had to delay completion 
until 17 December 2020. But the original completion date was a date he had set with seller 
prior to making the mortgage application. And, while I note that Mr A says that he kept 
Barclays informed of his timescales and was assured that these were achievable, I also note 
that he was told in email correspondence in September 2020 that the application was 
subject to satisfactory underwriting. 
To the extent that there were delays in the mortgage application process these appear to 
have related to supplying the information requested by the underwriter in early November. I 
appreciate that some of the information requested may not have been easy for Mr A to 
supply. But Im not persuaded that Barclays acted incorrectly or unreasonably when it 
requested the information.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays caused any unreasonable delays in progressing 
Mr As mortgage application. So Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable for me to 
require it to reimburse Mr A for the interest charges he incurred when he had to delay 
completion on his purchase.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman