DRN-3163955
The complaint
Mr C complains that ana agreement he entered into with Black Horse Limited was mis-sold.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr C purchased a static caravan and entered into a finance agreement 
with Black Horse. The loan amount was almost £53,000 over a term of 107 months.
Mr C says he was told by the salesperson that he could live in the caravan on a permanent 
basis.
Mr C later found out that this was incorrect and that the caravan couldnt be used as a main 
residence as this would be a breach of the pitch licence agreement.
Mr C had to move from the site in February 2021 and is currently in rented accommodation. 
He says that if hed been told that he wouldnt use the caravan as his main residence he 
wouldnt have entered into the agreement.
Mr C complained to Black Horse. He said he wanted to cancel the agreement and have his 
payments refunded. In response, Black Horse  said that the documentation Mr C had signed 
clearly stated that the caravan was for holiday use only. It said it didnt agree that the 
caravan had been mis-sold.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said that Mr C had signed a holiday home purchase agreement in which he 
confirmed that he was aware that the caravan couldnt be used as a main residence. The 
investigator said he didnt think the agreement had been mis-sold.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed purchased the caravan as a permanent place to live and 
said he hadnt been given the chance to read the agreement before he signed it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that the agreement was mis-sold to Mr C, I would need to be satisfied that the 
salesperson made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr C to enter into the 
agreement.
Mr C has said that the sales representative told him that he could use the caravan as his 
main residence.
Theres no notes of the discussions between Mr C and the sales representative. Because I 
wasnt present when the discussions took place, I cant be certain of exactly what was said. 
In circumstances like this, I need to look at all of the available evidence to decide whats 
most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the holiday home purchase agreement which Mr C signed. The agreement 
states that the caravan is for holiday use only. Theres nothing in the agreement that says 
the caravan can be used as a main residence.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the agreement was mis-sold to Mr C. I think 
Mr C was aware  or ought to have been aware  that the caravan was for holiday use only, 
as this is clearly stated in the agreement which Mr C signed.
Mr C has said that he wasnt given time to read the agreement. Ive looked at all the 
information but theres nothing to suggest that Mr C was pressurised into signing the 
agreement or given limited time in which to read it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman