DRN-4095385
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Direct Line has rejected 
a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy. They say there are two separate claims but 
UKI is treating them as one.
Where I refer to UKI this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a joint insurance policy which includes legal expenses insurance. 
Although the policy is in joint names and they have submitted the complaint jointly, Mr M has 
in the main been pursuing the complaint and so for ease I will generally refer to Mr M alone.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on the policy in December 2021. They wanted cover to pursue a 
claim against their neighbours for invasion of privacy relating to the neighbours recording 
things on CCTV. They later contacted UKI about cover for a claim relating to a failure by 
their neighbours as data controllers to disclose information. Mr and Mrs M had taken a case 
to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and were successful but said the 
neighbours hadnt complied with the ruling and they needed to take enforcement action.
UKI accepted the first claim might be covered by the policy and passed it to its panel 
solicitors to assess. The claim was rejected on the basis of legal advice from the solicitors 
that the case didnt have reasonable prospects of success, as required by the policy terms.
Mr M provided further information after the ICO ruling but the panel solicitors said the 
outcome of the complaint to the ICO didnt change the prospects of success. Mr M accepted 
that but has said the second claim should be considered in its own right as a separate claim.
When Mr M complained to UKI it didnt change its decision, so he referred the complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said:
it was reasonable for UKI to accept the advice of the panel solicitors that the claim 
didnt have prospects of success, and that both claims were linked;
if Mr M provided his own legal advice, he would expect UKI to consider that.
Mr M disagreed and provided further comments but after further correspondence with Mr M 
the investigator maintained his view. And he said UKI had pointed out that the policy 
wouldnt cover an action to enforce the ICO ruling.
Mr M still disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Hes made a number of 
points in pursuing the complaint but in brief, the key points include:
this complaint is about the fact UKI refused to deal with his second claim in its own 
right, separately from the first claim;
the fact the ICO claim would not be covered by the policy hasnt been mentioned 
before;
its clear UKI conflated the two claims and didnt look at the ICO claim separately  
that is what he was complaining about and so his complaint should be upheld;
UKI should be directed to reply to him on the second claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for certain types of legal action. These include for example 
personal injury claims and contract disputes. If a clam doesnt fall within one of these heads 
of cover, then it wont be covered. In this case, the relevant head of cover relates to property 
claims including trespass and nuisance. 
As with most legal expenses insurance, a claim will only be covered where it has reasonable 
prospects of success  in other words, where the consumer is more likely than not to win 
their case. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim that is not likely to 
succeed.
UKI accepted the claim was of a type that would potentially be covered and referred it to 
panel solicitors to assess. Their advice was that the claim wasnt likely to be successful.
Its reasonable for an insurer to rely on legal advice, provided its a reasoned opinion from 
someone suitably qualified and experienced, unless its obviously wrong. In this case, there 
was clear legal advice from a solicitor and it was reasonable for UKI to rely on that advice. 
So it was fair for UKI to reject the claim on the basis of that advice.
Mr M accepts that the original claim doesnt have reasonable prospects of success but says 
there are two distinct claims. 
Mr M went back to UKI after obtaining a ruling from the ICO. He says this was a separate 
claim. But UKI considered the further points he made about the ICO and referred this to the 
solicitors. Thats what Id expect it to do. The solicitors advice was that it wasnt a separate 
claim  it was all part of the same claim. Again, since this was properly reasoned legal 
advice from someone suitable to give that advice, UKI was entitled to rely on that. And UKI 
explained that if Mr M wanted to challenge this, he could obtain his own legal advice. 
The advice would need to show there was a separate claim; not connected to the original 
claim; which was of a type covered by the policy; and which had reasonable prospects of 
success. If Mr M had done that, then UKI would have needed to reconsider.
As it stands, UKI has legal advice that the claims are related and do not have prospects of 
success. In those circumstances, its reasonable to reject the claim.
UKI has also pointed out that there is no cover under the policy terms for enforcing an ICO 
decision in isolation. I think thats right  the policy sets out the types of claim that are 
covered, and taking action to enforce an ICO ruling does not fall within any of the heads of 
cover in the policy. So even if Mr Ms right and this is an entirely separate clam, it would not 
be covered by the policy anyway. 
This could only be covered as part of the original clam  but that is not covered as it doesnt 
have reasonable prospects of success.
Mr M has obtained further evidence and says UKI hasnt seen all of that. If he wishes to 
submit it for consideration UKI would need to consider it. But this is a new matter. If Mr M is  unhappy with any decision UKI makes after it has considered these new points, that would 
be a fresh complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman