DRN-1229711
Complaint
Miss S complains that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in July 2000.
Background
Miss S bought the policy in July 2000. The PPI was sold to her when she applied for a 
store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Miss S had a pre-existing 
medical condition at the time of sale. The business disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
In October 2019, I issued my provisional decision. At the time, this complaint was set up 
against a different business. Since issuing my provisional decision, another business, AXA 
France IARD (AXA), has taken responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to AXA in my decision.
In my provisional decision, I explained that I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Below is a 
extract of what I said:
AXA has provided us with a copy of Miss Ss credit agreement. This shows Miss S 
was given the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under the section Protecting 
your Account, Miss S was asked to sign if she wanted the PPI. Looking at Miss S 
credit agreement, I can see she signed next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect 
my Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the 
relevant premium until further notice.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Miss S had the option 
of selecting whether or not she wanted the Card Protection Plan. Miss S didnt select 
this product, so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either 
product. Overall, I think its more likely than not Miss S would have understood the PPI was 
optional. And I dont think she would have selected the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss S got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Miss S chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time it looks like she was eligible for the cover and it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
The adjudicator thought that because Miss S suffered from a medical condition at the time 
of sale, it was possible that she would have been affected by the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. The adjudicator concluded that had Miss S been 
made sufficiently aware of this, she wouldnt have agreed to take out the policy.
Having thought about this and what I currently know about Miss Ss medical condition, I 
dont agree with our adjudicators findings. Ill explain why.
While Miss Ss told us she had a medical condition at the time of sale and has 
provided some information about it, I havent seen anything to suggest that her condition 
affected her day-to-day work life or that shes had any time off work because of it.
So, whilst Miss S could have possibly been affected by the exclusion  meaning she 
couldnt claim for her condition, I dont think Miss S would have thought at the time that she 
would have actually needed to claim for that condition. Or that she would be off work for 30 
days, which was the excess (waiting) period before a claim could be submitted. As a result, I 
dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations would have 
made any difference to Miss Ss decision to take out PPI.
If Miss S wants to provide our service with information about her medical condition to 
show that her condition affected her day-to-day life or that shes had any time off of work 
because of it, she can do so before the response date mentioned above. Once any 
information has been received, I will revisit this complaint to see whether it makes a 
difference to the outcome.
Miss S has told us she would have been entitled to statutory sick pay if she was too 
unwell to work. Having thought about what Miss S has said about her sick pay, I dont think 
this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would 
have paid out in addition the statutory sick pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if 
Miss S was ever made redundant or in the event of death.
So overall, I think Miss S could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
As a result, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Neither Miss S nor AXA responded with anything further for me to consider.        
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any new evidence, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold      
Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman