DRN-4479012
The complaint
Miss R complains Creation Financial Services Limited have continued to report defaults on 
two accounts when they shouldnt have.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whats happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements from my provisional decision below, and they form part of 
this final decision.
From the information Miss R has provided, shes said she entered into an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in January 2017, and the agreement was satisfied in 
full in May 2018. Despite this, Creation have been reporting defaults on her two accounts  
and Miss R says none should have been reported since January 2017.
On 10 February 2023 Creation said theyd found Miss R provided the IVA documents in 
May 2019, but her credit file wasnt updated as it should have been at the time. They said 
sorry for this, and said theyd arranged for updates to be made to her credit file  and this 
should take 28 days. Overall, they upheld her complaint, and awarded £150 in compensation 
to reflect this error.
Unhappy with this Miss R contacted our service explaining she was trying to get a mortgage, 
and this was causing her a lot of stress. She also told us she hadnt accepted Creations 
offer.
One of our Investigators upheld the complaint and increased total compensation to £400 in 
total. Creation accepted this outcome and told us theyd sent off a request to update 
Miss Rs credit file on 17 February 2023. They added this would take up to 28 days to show. 
If Creation had sent the amendment on 10 February 2023, then it should have updated by 
10 March 2023  if the amendment wasnt sent until 17 February, then itd be 17 March 2023 
before the 28 days had passed.
Following this, Miss R provided evidence Creation had marked her accounts as defaulted as 
of 28 February 2023. This would in theory mean the default would remain until 
28 February 2029, when actually Creation had accepted at this point they should have 
already been removed. This happened again in March 2023, April 2023, May 2023  and in 
July 2023 Miss R told us the reports were still incorrect.
On 24 April 2023 Creation let us know an error had been made when asking for the defaults 
to be removed  which meant the credit reference agencies (CRAs) couldnt find Miss Rs 
accounts. They said at this time theyd manually removed them, so they shouldnt be 
showing anymore.
Miss R says shes lost out financially because of Creations actions. Ultimately our 
Investigator awarded £650 compensation, but as Miss R didnt think that went far enough, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation accepted in their final response theyd made an error in not removing the default. 
This was on 10 February 2023  and they said itd be removed within 28 days from then.
From the timeline Ive listed above, its clear the issues werent resolved by 10 March 2023 
as Id have expected them to be. As recently as July 2023 incorrect information was still 
showing with the CRAs for Miss R. Given Creations assertions theyd resolve this, including 
their admittance of an error in April 2023 of providing incorrect information to the CRAs, I 
intend to hold Creation responsible for the issue from the beginning until the end.
This means Im satisfied its appropriate to consider how much money should be paid to 
Miss R for what happened. Ill split this process into two parts  financial losses, and 
compensation for whats happened.
Financial losses
These are losses Miss R says she wouldnt have incurred but for Creations errors.
Miss R has made a number of claims and at our request provided more detail about those 
financial losses along with evidence of those. I thank her for taking the time to provide that 
information I asked for.
I wanted to ask Miss R for this information because it was important for me to gain a better 
understanding of what happened and when. Creation have made many errors regarding the 
default, but I also need to think whether Miss R has fully mitigated any losses where she 
could have.
What I mean by that is we generally expect consumers such as Miss R to take reasonable 
actions in order to limit the amount of losses shes potentially going to incur. Here, I think she 
could have told her first lender there was a problem with her credit file because Creation 
kept adding a default when they shouldnt. This would have allowed them to take this 
information into account, and I cant rule out that they might have granted the mortgage she 
was applying for. I do understand why she didnt, as she didnt want to take the chance of 
losing the home shed become emotionally invested in. But I have to assess things 
impartially.
As I think she could have told her first lender about the issues, I think this means the 
financial losses shes claiming for below wont be something I plan to refund:
The difference in mortgage payments
Extra solicitors costs
Broker fees
Thats because if Miss R had told her first lender about the issues with the default, and that 
mortgage completed, she wouldnt have incurred these costs. And it seems likely to me the 
mortgage would have completed, given her first application was on a lower rate with 
correspondingly lower repayments than she was ultimately accepted for.I understand Miss R may not agree with this and will likely point to information provided from 
her brokers about the first lender not accepting her application. But what Ive not seen is the 
lender being shown she was in dispute with Creation about the default, that Creation had 
agreed to remove it, and that there were problems with this. Id also need to see something 
from the lender confirming the only reason they didnt progress with her application was due 
to the default still being incorrectly applied.
I think the credit reports she paid for is something she likely would have felt the need to pay 
for  in order to get the most up to date information. Its clear to me Miss R was very 
concerned about Creations ability to remove the default as time went on. So, Im satisfied 
its appropriate for those costs of £44.95 to be refunded. As Miss R has been deprived of this 
money, Ill also add 8% interest from the date of expense to the date of settlement. 
And Ive noted Miss R said she was experiencing extreme stress which resulted in problems 
with her hair  but she included this to demonstrate the impact on her. With that in mind, Ill 
consider that in the next section.
Overall then, although I can understand why Miss R did what she did, and she genuinely has 
my sympathy, there were other options open to her which I think likely would have mitigated 
her losses. So, Ill only be awarding the credit file report costs for this part.
Compensation for whats happened
This is purely compensation to put matters right. Its not an exact science, but its about 
understanding the impact this issue has had on Miss R and assessing a fair amount of 
compensation against our guidelines (which can be found online if required).
Although I think Miss R could have taken a different path, I do still think Creations actions 
have had a significant impact on her. Its well known buying a property is one of the most 
stressful things people can do  so Creations delay in removing the default has had a far 
more significant impact than it otherwise might.
From the information I have it was January 2023, and her purchase didnt go through until 
around June 2023. Thats six months of worrying about a default being incorrectly reported 
about her, that she shouldnt have had to do.
In addition, I think this worry was compounded as time went on. Initially Creation accepted 
theyd made an error and said on 10 February the default takes up to 28 days to be 
removed. But they didnt submit the request until a week later. Even then, it should have 
been removed in March 2023 but despite multiple contacts, it wasnt until April 2023 where 
Creation realised theyd made an error in the data theyd sent to the CRAs. This error meant 
the entry wouldnt be removed. By this time Im not surprised Miss R entirely lost faith in 
Creation actually removing the default.
I think regardless of whether shed gone with her first lender, or the lender she ended up 
actually using, this would have been stressful for her until the day she completed on her 
property sale. I think given Creation knew what this was for, and they were at fault in the first 
place they should have taken far more care, than they clearly did, in ensuring the default 
was removed.
Our Investigator awarded £650, but I dont think that quite goes far enough. Instead, Im 
planning to say £800 is a fairer reflection of all the issues Miss R has experienced. I have, 
when thinking about this, taken into account the impact Miss R has told us on her health.Responses to my provisional decision
In summary Miss R says she did try and mitigate her losses explaining she told each broker 
what was going on with the default and said it wasnt worth appealing. Shes provided 
information from her first lenders website in support of that. Miss R also clarified it was the 
product fee of £995 she asked to be refunded, not the broker fee.
Creation replied to say they agreed with my outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss R for her comprehensive response and am sorry for referring to broker fees 
when they were product fees. 
Miss Rs key argument here is that she told her broker who she was speaking to about the 
issues with the default, and was guided in terms of what to do. But shes also previously told 
us she didnt want her first lender, or her second lender, knowing about the default because 
of the impact it could have had on her application. As Ive explained in my provisional 
decision, I think most of Miss Rs losses have stemmed from having to change from the first 
lender to the second lender  and the only reason Miss R has given us for doing that is 
because of the default.
I have noted the explanation she was given about mortgages being automatically declined in 
her circumstances, any appeal taking some time, and the approaching completion date. I do 
understand that this must have been incredibly stressful for her in terms of knowing what to 
do. But, fundamentally, I can only award losses if Im satisfied Creation caused those losses 
and Miss R couldnt have reasonably done anything to avoid them. I understand her position 
is she couldnt because any appeal would have taken too long, but I simply cant be certain 
she couldnt have spoken to her first lender and got the mortgage agreed. Creations final 
response letter is very clear in explaining they shouldnt have added a default, so I cant say 
her first lender wouldnt have taken that into account.
I understand Miss R will be very disappointed, but for the reasons Ive explained above I 
remain satisfied the way I suggest things be put right is still fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
To summarise then, I require Creation to:
Refund £14.99 taken on 18 February 2023
Refund £14.99 taken on 18 March 2023
Refund £14.99 taken on 18 April 2023
Creation need to pay 8% simple interest* from the date of each payment, to the date 
of settlement
Pay Miss R £800 compensation*HM Revenue and Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Creation must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if she asks them for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Creation Financial Services Limited to carry out the 
actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman