DRN-4303437
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing an overdraft and two loans for him over a short period of time. 
What happened
Mr R applied and was approved for an overdraft of £2,500 on 22 May 2022. In the month 
prior to and following this, Nationwide agreed two loans of £10,000 each. Mr R complained 
to Nationwide that it acted irresponsibly by providing him with an overdraft and loans.
Nationwide didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly. It says all applications were subject to 
credit reference checks and a detailed affordability assessment was carried out and came 
back fine. 
Mr R was dis-satisfied with this and he referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Rs complaint regarding his overdraft was considered by one of our adjudicators. They 
thought that Nationwide acted unfairly when it provided the overdraft in May 2022 because it 
wouldve been aware of Mr Rs other borrowing commitments with it at the time and that 
there was evidence of gambling on his statements and thought Nationwide ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Mr R would be able to sustainably repay the extra lent within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Nationwide disagreed. It says the loan wouldnt have shown up on Mr Rs credit record when 
the overdraft was granted and that Mr R had a high level of credits coming into his account 
indicating that he had come into funds. 
So the case was progressed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear this decision only relates to Mr Rs overdraft approved by Nationwide. And 
based on the evidence Ive seen, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint that Nationwide 
acted irresponsibly in agreeing the overdraft lending.
Nationwide needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is it needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr R would 
be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
And in this case, Im in agreement with our adjudicator in that I dont think Nationwide acted 
fairly in providing Mr R with an overdraft given the borrowing Mr R already had with it and I 
dont think its checks went far enough. I say this as I can see in the month before Mr R had 
his overdraft of £2,500 agreed, Mr R took out a loan with Nationwide of £10,000. 
Nationwide says that Mr Rs credit check came back fine and that the £10,000 loan taken out 
with it wouldnt have shown up on Mr Rs credit record due to the short period of time 
between the loan and overdraft being granted. But Nationwide havent provided me a copy 
with the credit reference check, so I cant see what it saw when assessing Mr Rs overdraft 
application.  But I dont think this matters, because I can see from Nationwides internal 
records that the loan was present when Mr R applied for his overdraft - so it ought to have 
known at the very least about the outstanding loan Mr R already had with it. 
Indeed, Nationwides records show that around the same time as Mr R applied for his 
overdraft, he had two applications withdrawn for further loans of around £10,000 and 
£20,000. And the reason stated for this was because a customer has to wait 40 days after 
release of first loan funds to apply again. Yet Mr R was still able to apply for and be 
approved for further borrowing in the form of an overdraft.
Nationwide says in the lead up to Mr Rs overdraft application he had credits coming into his 
account of £5,200 indicating he had come into funds and that the overdraft was affordable. 
But this doesnt mean Mr R has an increased salary or is expecting further credits like this or 
that these funds werent earmarked for spending elsewhere. 
And Mr Rs statements also show a number of large cash withdrawals and transfers out of 
his account as well as around £4,100 spent on gambling. I think it could reasonably be 
concluded that this was what the additional overdraft funds were for and that Nationwide 
ought to have realised that on an annual income declared of around £20,000 that Mr R 
wasnt in a position to sustainably repay what he already owed within a reasonable period of 
time, let alone further lending. Nationwides own literature suggests that overdrafts are for 
unforeseen emergency borrowing. 
If Nationwide had properly considered the amount of debt Mr R already had with it and the 
information it had available to it from his statements, I think it is likely that Nationwide 
wouldve realised Mr Rs circumstances were such that it was unlikely Mr R would have been 
able to sustainably repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
So I think Nationwide acted unfairly by agreeing an overdraft for Mr R and this means that it 
should put things right.
I understand Mr R would like his overdraft debt written off. It might help if I explain here that 
when it is decided a business has done something wrong, wed expect the business to put 
the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an 
ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt have. But for complaints about funds which 
shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight forward as the funds were provided and, in 
most cases  such as here, have long since been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business allows a 
consumer to use a credit facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed 
typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any 
further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to 
refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have 
realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% 
simple interest per year.In this case, its likely that Mr R will be left with an outstanding balance on his overdraft, once 
all adjustments have been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and 
charges caused by his overdraft and he is unhappy with this. But what Mr R is left with to 
repay are the funds which he used and I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to expect Mr 
R to repay these funds. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from May 2022 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs 
credit file, it should backdate this to May 2022. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, uphold Mr Rs complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman