DRN-2641424
The complaint
Mr J, representing the estate of Mrs J, complains that she was mis-sold a Maximum 
Investment Plan (MIP) by Zurich Assurance Ltd. 
What happened
Mrs J was recommended the MIP in 1995 to meet an objective of providing a cash sum in 
future through regular savings, according to the recommendations letter. At the time she 
was aged 50, working with her husband in their own small business. She had one dependent 
child.
The MIP was a 10-year regular savings plan to which Mrs J made initial monthly payments 
of £30, invested in the Managed Fund. It matured in 2005 when Mrs J received back just 
over £4,700, having paid just over £4400 in premiums.  
Mrs J sadly passed away in 2016 and in 2020 Mr S made a complaint to Zurich, saying that 
Mr S had been told she would make much more from the MIP than she did, but she wouldve 
been better off with an alternative. He said she was also not told about the risks involved. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the documentation provided to Mrs J 
explained that the amount she might receive back was not guaranteed. The illustration 
confirmed that any amounts shown were just examples. It felt there nothing to show that 
Mrs J had been led to believe she would make a large profit and she couldve cancelled if 
shed decided on reflection that the MIP wasnt suitable for her.
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached a different 
conclusion. He said that although the MIP appeared to have been affordable for Mrs J, as 
she continued with the premiums to the plans maturity, he wasnt persuaded that it was 
suitable for her. 
He noted that Mrs Js attitude to risk had been recorded as a 2 on a scale of 1 to 4, 
cautious to speculative. But he felt it wasnt clear what this really meant or what Mrs J was 
likely to have understood by it. Looking at the wider circumstances, he noted that she 
already had three endowment policies in place, so was unlikely to have been entirely risk-
averse. But he didnt think that investment in the managed fund, which was 80% invested in 
UK and overseas equity-based assets was likely to have been consistent with Mrs Js 
circumstances and objectives. 
The investigator therefore felt the complaint should be upheld and compensation paid to the 
estate based on a comparison of the performance of the MIP with Bank of England base rate 
plus 1%, with 8% simple interest added to any loss from the date of the MIPs maturity to the 
date of settlement. 
Zurich didnt accept the investigators view. It said that Mrs Js attitude to risk had effectively 
been recorded as balanced and the documentation would have explained the nature of the 
MIP and the associated risks. It felt that consideration had been given to Mrs Js appetite for 
risk, capacity to bear loss and the amounts involved and the term of the MIP. So, overall, it 
felt Mrs Js circumstances were compatible with the risks.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, adding that he also didnt feel that the 
life cover provided by the MIP had been required by Mrs J. He confirmed that this was why 
his suggested compensation hadnt included any deduction for the cost of the cover.
Zurich noted this, reiterating its view that that the MIP had been suitable. It added that it felt 
the life cover had been suitable as Mrs J had a dependent child and its cost had been 
minimal but had made the MIP qualifying for tax purposes. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.  
The documentation from the time of the sale very much the stresses that Mrs J had a 
savings objective. The Financial Objectives documents noted that Mrs J was interested in 
increasing savings or creating capital and wanting to build up capital through savings. It 
was recorded that she regularly reviewed her savings contribution level and wanted to 
increase what she was currently paying, with her retirement in ten years in mind. 
She already had three endowment policies in place for savings purposes. Theres no 
information about how these were invested but it does suggest that Mrs J was willing to 
accept at least some risk in respect of her savings objective. The information concerning her 
attitude to risk also indicated a willingness to take some risk, as a 2 on a scale of 1  4. 
So, its not implausible that Mrs J understood what contributing to the MIP entailed in terms 
of risk, as opposed to simply saving her money in the more traditional sense  for example, 
in a savings account or in fixed-rate bonds. 
But I do question whether its likely that, given her relatively low income, her existing risk-
based polices and the fact that in 1995 she was looking specifically towards retirement, she 
really appreciated the risk that investment in the Managed fund entailed  with its quite 
heavy reliance upon equities and overseas assets. 
I think this is a finely balanced decision. The advice was provided in 1995, at a time when 
stock market returns had been broadly positive for the preceding decade with the sort of 
financial crashes seen post-2000 yet to be experienced. But this was still a risk-based 
investment and I think, on balance, it was too much risk and pushed Mrs J beyond her 
capacity for a loss of capital or return, given her aim of saving towards retirement.  
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate of Mrs J as close to the position it would probably now be in if she hadnt been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs J wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what 
she wouldve done differently. But Im satisfied she wouldve been prepared to take a small risk with her money. 
Zurich should therefore calculate the total of the premiums paid and to these add interest at 
the rate of 1% above the Bank of England base rate up to the date of maturity. From this 
figure it should deduct the maturity value paid out. To any loss arising, Zurich should add 
interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of maturity to date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Zurich 
Assurance Ltd to pay compensation to the estate of Mrs J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman