DRN-2181140
The complaint
Ms D took out a mortgage in 1991 and says she was mis-sold a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy at the same time. 
Santander UK Plc is now responsible for answering the complaint, so to keep things 
consistent, Ill mainly refer to Santander throughout this decision.
What happened
Ms D says it was implied that the MPPI was something she needed to have. She also says 
she didnt need this type of cover. 
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Ms D its unlikely to be 
upheld. She disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
I certainly dont doubt Ms D now genuinely feels the MPPI was mis-sold. However, these 
events were almost 30 years ago and theres as much to say Ms D agreed to the PPI - as 
there is to say she didnt.
No paper records exist, for example, and given the time period we are talking about, thats 
not unusual or indeed, unreasonable. Businesses dont need to keep records indefinitely.
Im familiar with these types of sales though, and my general experience is that the MPPI 
would normally require consent from the consumer and the optional nature would be made 
clear, particularly on the mortgage offer and other mortgage documents. Obviously, I cant 
confirm this happened here, but theres simply no supporting evidence that Ms D was 
forced to buy the policy against her wishes. Im afraid I think its just as likely she provided 
her consent because the policy was something she wanted to have at the time. I therefore 
do not uphold her complaint on this point.
Knowing what I do about these types of sales I think the policy was probably recommended 
to her as part of an advised sale. This means it ought to have been suitable for her needs. 
Overall, I think it was. I say this because Ms D appears to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The 
price seems to me to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and 
at around £13 per month, Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for her. 
Ms D said she didnt need the cover because she also had sickness protection with her job. 
Ive thought very carefully about her job and the likely benefits it could have had. But this 
doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against Ms Ds home and 
so the consequences of her not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. 
In the event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would 
have been in addition to  and much longer than - any other means Ms D already had in 
place at the time. 
So, although I cant say why Ms D decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being 
recommended it to her was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
 
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
cant confirm if she was told everything she ought to have been and sometimes businesses 
did fall short in this area. But I think the monthly cost would have been known to her, as 
would have been the details about what was covered. I therefore think she probably had 
enough information on which to make an informed decision and I dont think any more  or 
better  information would have changed anything.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D, but overall theres no supporting evidence that she was mis-
sold this cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. And I dont direct Santander UK Plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman