DRN-3797291
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her insurance 
claim after she was involved in an accident that she said wasnt her fault. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs Bs car was hit by a third-party while it was parked on her drive.   
Mrs B reported the accident to her insurer. Mrs Bs insurer noted that she wasnt at fault for 
the accident as her car had been parked and she was at home asleep at the time. They 
referred the management of her claim to another company Ill call E. Mrs B said there was 
a delay in the recovery of her car from storage to the repairing garage. And after initially 
agreeing to repair the car it was later deemed her car was beyond economical repair. 
Mrs B said she was offered a pre accident valuation (PAV) of £20,510 which she said was 
too low. This was revised to £20,655 which Mrs B again said was too low a valuation. In 
December 2021 it was agreed for the management of her claim to be passed back from E 
to her insurer. And a settlement amount of £23,250 was agreed. 
Mrs B complained to Advantage that:
it took around 10 weeks from the time of the accident until her car was recovered 
from storage and taken for repair; 
early December 2021 she was told her car was repairable but later the same month 
she was told that it was beyond economical repair; 
first PAV offer of £20,510 was too low and despite assurance of a call back to 
discuss this didnt happen; 
Mrs B called back and during this discussion the PAV was increased to £20,655; 
the settlement of £23,250 was finally agreed with Advantage 3 February 2022, 
around 20 weeks after the accident; and 
shed had to deal with several different businesses throughout her claim. 
Advantage said thered been a nationwide delay in getting vehicles to repairing garages. 
This caused the storage fees for Mrs Bs car to rise and payment had to be made before her 
car would be released. This finally happened in mid-November 2021. Advantage said after 
the initial assessment it was thought Mrs Bs car could be repaired, but on further inspection 
additional damage was identified which meant her car was deemed beyond economical 
repair. As Mrs B wasnt happy with the PAV provided through E her claim was returned to 
them. But the pass back and engineers reports werent received until February 2022. 
Advantage said within two days of receipt of these they offered a PAV which Mrs B accepted 
in settlement of her claim. 
Advantage said they werent in contact with her while E was managing her claim, but on its 
return to them theyd updated Mrs B and settled her claim. Advantage apologised for the 
delays and offered Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with Advantages response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Advantage in increasing the PAV and in offering Mrs B £100 had acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision but having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Bs frustration especially as she wasnt at fault for the accident. I know 
part of her complaint is that she had to deal with several businesses. Firstly, I should note 
that when Mrs B reported her accident, she was referred by her insurer to E. 
E offer what is known as accident management services, which means they would provide 
certain services to someone who had been involved in a road traffic accident that wasnt 
their fault. For example, they would typically arrange a hire car, where needed, organise 
repairs, or determine the PAV of the car if its deemed non repairable and then claim these 
costs back from the at fault third party insurer (TPI). They would have a responsibility to 
mitigate any costs as the TPI wouldnt cover any costs incurred if they werent a result of the 
accident. And by using these services it usually means the non fault driver doesnt have to 
pay their motor insurance policy excess and there isnt any impact on their no-claims 
discount if they have one. When using the services of an accident management company 
the provision of a hire vehicle and/or repairs to the vehicle is usually paid through a non-
regulated finance arrangement. As credit hire/credit repair agreements arent regulated I 
cant look at the activities provided by E to Mrs B under these agreements. So, I wont 
comment any further on this.
In reaching my decision Im only considering the actions of Mrs Bs insurer in what they have 
done and whether I consider theyve acted fairly and reasonably.
Dealing first with the delay with Mrs Bs claim, its clear to me that there was some delay with 
the initial referral from Advantage to E, as the instructions had to be sent more than once to 
E.  And It seems there was then further delay in establishing a garage that could do the 
repairs. This meant Mrs Bs car was kept in storage for some time resulting in storage fees 
of around £2500. 
I can see from Advantages records that they instructed E the same day as the accident but 
it took a further two days before these instructions were received and acted upon by E.
The accident happened in September 2021 but it wasnt until November 2021 that Mrs Bs 
car was removed from storage for repair. Advantage records show that they asked E for 
updates about the claim. They were made aware that the garage agreed to between Mrs B 
and E was at full capacity and were unable to take on the repairs.  A second garage that 
was considered was now no longer on the list of the approved repairers. Advantages notes say that theyd check the following week for further updates and I can see an email was 
sent.  This was pursued further after Mrs B called for a further update.  Some of the delay 
was caused by the high cost of storage, due to the time being taken to remove Mrs Bs car 
that meant the storage fees had to be paid before the removal could be agreed. 
As stated above an accident management company has to mitigate costs as the TPI might 
be unwilling to pay for costs they dont think theyre liable for. I can see Advantage, to 
progress Mrs Bs claim agreed to the payment of the storage fees when they were made 
aware of the issue in mid-November 2021.
Some of the delay wasnt caused by Advantage as there were issues with locating a garage 
that could repair Mrs Bs car. And I think they acted to progress Mrs Bs claim by agreeing 
the payment of the storage fees rather than adding to further delay in E trying to mitigate 
the costs with the TPI.
Valuation
I know it must have been disappointing for Mrs B when she thought her car was being 
repaired only for it later to be deemed beyond reasonable repair. But its not unusual on 
further inspection and dismantling of a car for repair for additional damage to be found. And 
this is what happened in this case. To determine whether a car will be repaired or deemed a 
total loss, the PAV is compared to the repair costs. I can see the engineers report estimated 
the repair costs at just under £21,000.
When calculating the PAV, most motor policies only require the insurer to compensate the 
policyholder for the market value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. In assessing 
whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor trade guides. 
These are used for valuing secondhand cars. We find these guides to be particularly 
persuasive. Largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and actual 
sales figures. 
I can see that when Mrs Bs claim was being managed by E they made a settlement offer 
after discussions with her of £20,655, less than the cost of the repairs. And from what I can 
see this was based on  a valuation from one of the guides, and the condition of Mrs Bs car 
prior to the accident.
Ive considered the motor trade guides immediately before Mrs Bs loss  September 2021 
and February 2022 when Advantage settled her claim. In September 2021, the same make, 
model, specification, condition and mileage as Mrs Bs car, the guides Ive seen show a 
range between £20,710 to £23173, so I can understand why Mrs B wasnt happy with the 
PAV offered by E, as £20.655 is below the lower end of the valuations that Ive seen.
 As E werent able to reach an agreement, and as an accident management company 
theyd needed to mitigate any costs to the TPI, it was agreed that the management of       
Mrs Bs claim would be returned to Advantage. I can see this was agreed in December 2021 
for Advantage to take over but they didnt get all the reports needed from E, pass back and 
engineers report until February 2022. 
As previously mentioned, the market value for a car is usually calculated on the PAV prior to 
the loss and this would have been around September 2021. But I can see Advantage 
recognised there had been delay in handling Mrs Bs claim. So Im pleased that Advantage 
took this into account and acknowledged the delay to her claim by considering what the PAV 
would be at time of settlement.Ive considered the same guides for February 2022, and the range had increased - £22,890, 
to £23,750.  
While the settlement Advantage offered Mrs B is less than the higher valuation across the 
guides I think its within a reasonable range to offer. And they reached the offer to settle 
within a couple of days of getting the reports they needed from E. And by looking at the 
valuations for February 2022 theyd also acknowledged the delay in passing over Mrs Bs 
claim to them after it was agreed in December 2021.  
Were an informal dispute resolution service and base our impartial decision on the evidence 
provided. Its not our role to punish a business but to consider when something has gone 
wrong whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in putting this right. Clearly there were 
delays in Mrs Bs claim. But I think Advantage has recognised this and to put things right 
theyve covered the additional costs caused by the delay as they couldnt mitigate these with 
the TPI. I can see the TPI agreed a PAV of £20,770.
I know this has been a frustrating time for Mrs B, but she still had access to a vehicle during 
that time and I think this lessened the impact of the delay in her settlement.  And Advantage 
acknowledged the delay by reassessing the valuation of Mrs Bs car from time of loss until 
settlement. So, I think Advantage has acted fairly and reasonably when they had 
management of her claim as theyve increased the PAV offer, accepting the difference in 
settlement costs themselves to reach an agreement with Mrs B to settle her claim. And 
offered £100 for the service issues Mrs B experienced with them  delay in initial instructions 
and in receiving the paperwork back from E
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman