DRN-2120718
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy that Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz) declined their home 
emergency claim.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S had a home emergency policy with Allianz, which included cover for their 
primary heating system. Their son, Mr S, dealt with the complaint on their behalf, so I shall 
refer to him throughout my decision. 
Mr S contacted Allianz to say the heating wasnt working. Hed noticed that the pressure 
wasnt adequate and a valve that allows pressure to be added was blocked or broken. 
Allianz asked whether the boiler had been serviced within the last 24 months. Because Mr S 
couldnt provide any evidence that it had, Allianz declined the claim.
Mr S complained to Allianz because he thought it was irrelevant whether the boiler had been 
serviced. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While there had been an insured peril, she 
thought Allianz had fairly relied on the exclusion clause which meant cover was not 
available.
Mr S disagreed. He remained of the view that the boiler service issue was irrelevant.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Theres no dispute about the actual event  a faulty valve feeding the boiler stopped 
pressure being added and caused a complete loss of central heating. The issue is that 
Allianz declined Mr Ss claim even though he maintains its an insured peril under the home 
emergency policy:
What is covered
Primary heating system
Complete failure or breakdown of either the heating and/or hot-water supply 
provided by the primary heating system.
Allianz declined the claim because it thought an exclusion clause applied:
What is not covered
Claims where you cannot provide written evidence that the primary heating 
system has been serviced within the last 24 months.
When Allianz investigated Mr Ss claim, he wasnt able to provide evidence that the boiler 
had been serviced. Allianz hasnt disputed that there was a fault, but it declined the claim 
because Mr S wasnt able to show that hed met the terms of the policy. I think the policy 
terms are clear  Allianz wont cover a claim unless written evidence of a service within the 
last 24 months is provided. So, I think it was fair for Allianz to rely on the exclusion clause 
and decline Mr Ss claim.
However, Mr S disagrees with Allianzs use of the exclusion clause. He says that even if the 
boiler had been serviced, the valve wouldnt have been checked and the fault would still 
have caused the loss of heating. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S says and I understand the point hes making. But his 
policy is for the primary heating system which isnt limited to the boiler. The policy defines 
the primary heating system as:
The main heating system in your home, including a domestic boiler This includes both 
the central heating and/or hot water systems and extends to:
the programmer;
the central heating pump;
thermostats; and
radiators.
Your central heating boiler should be properly installed and repaired, in accordance with 
the manufacturers recommendations and serviced and maintained at least every 24 
months.
Written confirmation of your last boiler service may be required in the event of a claim
So, when thinking about whether the valve is part of the heating system, I think its fair to say 
it is. Thats because the fault is in the valve which feeds the heating system and, therefore, 
has a direct impact on it. If the boiler had been serviced and the valve was faulty, then I think 
its more likely than not that the service engineer wouldve identified that. So I dont agree 
that the boiler service requirement is irrelevant as Mr S claims.
When making a claim, its Mr Ss responsibility to show an insured peril has occurred. I think 
he has, and I dont think Allianz disputes that. It is then Allianzs responsibility to accept the 
claim unless it can demonstrate that an exclusion clause applies. I think it has done that, 
here. So, Im satisfied that it was fair for Allianz to decline Mr Ss claim. I wont be asking it to 
take any action in respect of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman