DRN-3727881
The complaint
Mr B complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) who invited him to 
make a non-warranty claim, under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim which was accepted by AIG and he was sent a replacement phone. 
Around six months later, Mr B contacted AIG to make a warranty claim. He said that the 
replacement phones lens fell off and that he noticed that the adhesive that had been used 
was substandard. He said that there was no other damage to the phone. 
AIG, said that it classed the lens falling off as damage and as it was damage, it couldnt be a 
warranty repair, but he could make another claim. Mr B didnt agree as he said there was no 
actual damage to the phone, and he believed that the phone hadnt been correctly 
refurbished. So, he complained. Mr B also obtained two independent engineer reports that 
said there was no damage to the phone but the replacement parts that had been used were 
not original. 
In its final response, AIG maintained its position, it said that it provided a 24-month
warranty on the devices it repaired. If any damage was reported within 72 hours of the 
original delivery, then it would either repair it or exchange it. But as Mr B had reported the 
damage outside of its courtesy returns period, it was unable to exchange the device. It said 
the reported issue was deemed as damage. So, he would have to make a new claim. AIG 
gave Mr B his referral rights. 
He referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that AIG acted reasonably by stating that a 
claim would have to be submitted to resolve this issue. He said that under the policy terms 
and conditions AIG could use non original parts to refurbish the phone, so there was nothing 
further that he could reasonably ask AIG to do. 
AIG accepted the view. Mr B did not. He relied on the independent reports he had obtained 
to show that the phone wasnt damaged and that the refurbished phone had non original 
parts used. He believed that the glue that was used on the lens was inferior and as there 
was no damage to the phone, AIG should repair the phone under the warranty. So, he asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this might be a 
disappointment to Mr B, but I do hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
Mr B explained that his replacement phones (that he had had for around six months) lens 
fell off. He believed that this was due to inferior glue that had been used by AIG, during the 
refurbishment of the phone. He said that he obtained independent technicians reports. And 
they had examined the phone and concluded that it had been refurbished with non-branded 
parts. Those technicians also said that there was no damage to the phone. 
AIG provided an independent technicians report which gave details about the quality of the 
phone before it was sent out to Mr B. That report confirmed that the phones rear camera 
was certified as pass, following tests. So, I think its more likely than not that had there been 
a fault with the phone lens, this wouldve been identified during the phone check. And, I also 
think that given the tests that were carried out before the phone was sent out, if there had 
been a fault with the lens following the refurbishment, this would have manifested itself a lot 
sooner and not as long as six months later. Consequently, Im persuaded by AIGs 
independent technicians report.  
Mr B also complained that the parts used to refurbish the phone were non-branded parts. I 
have looked at the policy terms to see whether AIG were permitted to used non-branded 
parts in the refurbished phones. The policy said: Repairs will be made in accordance with 
the following: (i) using readily available parts, (ii) with refurbished products which may 
contain parts which are of similar or equivalent specification, and which may include non-
original, third party, or unbranded parts, and/or (iii) may be performed by non-authorised 
OEM repair providers. And Where AIG (sic) replaces the Device, the replacement will likely 
be a remanufactured - not brand new  Device. Remanufactured Devices may contain non-
original, third party, or unbranded parts.
From the policy terms, I think it is made clear that AIG were entitled to use non-branded 
parts to complete repairs to refurbished phones. So, I cant agree that because AIG used 
non-branded parts, this meant that the refurbishment of the phone was inadequate. 
Especially as it had also provided an independent mobile device certification that showed 
that the part was of sufficient quality. 
Accordingly, I dont think AIG was unfair or unreasonable to ask Mr B to make a new claim 
for the refurbished phone. I understand that this option might still be open for Mr B to do if he 
wishes. But it is for him to contact AIG to confirm this. Consequently, I cant reasonably ask 
AIG to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I wont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman