DRN-4044421
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited delayed the transfer of his 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to his new provider. He says Prudential have not 
been transparent with how they calculated his plans transfer value.
Mr C says hes lost out financially because of Prudentials delays and miscalculations and 
hed like them to recompense him for the losses he feels hes incurred.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr C contacted Prudential to discuss switching his SIPP to Interactive 
Investor (ii). Two days after that discussion, Prudential had received all of the necessary 
paperwork it needed to enable them to move the pension to Mr Cs new provider.
Prudential switched Mr Cs pension to ii on Friday 26 February 2021 using the value of his 
plan as of 18 February 2021. His new provider state they received the monies from 
Prudential on 3 March 2021 and applied the funds to Mr Cs pension the next day.
Shortly afterwards, Mr C decided to formally complain to Prudential. He said in summary that 
he thought the value Prudential had transferred to ii, shouldve been higher and so he 
wanted them to recompense him. He said having done his own research, he thought the 
value of his plan on 17 February 2021 should have been £9,156 more.
After reviewing Mr Cs complaint, Prudential agreed they hadnt acted as promptly as they 
should have when switching his pension to ii. They concluded they should have used an 
earlier valuation date of 21 January 2021 when moving his pension. Prudential then checked 
to see if Mr C had been impacted financially by their delay. Having looked at the difference 
between what they transferred on 26 February and the value on his plan on the earlier date 
(21 January) meant Prudential needed to top-up Mr Cs plan with ii by an additional £367. At 
the same time, Prudential also checked to see if Mr C had missed out on any investment 
growth as a consequence of sending the monies a month later than they should have done. 
Having looked at Mr Cs plan, ii confirmed to Prudential that as his fund was uninvested, 
there was no loss for Prudential to make good. Mr Cs ii plan was credited with the additional 
£367 on 6 August 2021. Finally, given the trouble theyd caused Mr C Prudential also offered 
him £400 for the inconvenience and upheld his complaint.
Mr C was unhappy with Prudentials response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said he didnt think Prudential had been transparent about how theyd 
calculated the SIPPs transfer value. He said he was unhappy at Prudentials unwillingness to 
provide a breakdown of the asset values within the plan so he could satisfy himself what 
they were saying was correct. He also thought, given Prudentials delays, hed suffered 
charges that couldve been avoided.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that 
Prudential had treated Mr C fairly and the revised date Prudential had used in its complaint 
resolution letter looked reasonable. He also felt the £400 theyd offered was in line with what 
this service would typically award consumers in similar situations to Mr C. He therefore didnt 
believe Prudential needed to take any further action.
Mr C however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he didnt think 
Prudential would ever have been able to process the transfer on 21 January and felt it fairer 
that a later date should be used. He thought the January date resulted in a lower transfer 
value that favoured Prudential rather than himself. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mr C had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to.
Mr C then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr C has done and, Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Cs complaint and largely for the same 
reasons that our Investigator provided in his initial view. Ill explain why below.
Whats not in any doubt here is that Prudential didnt transfer Mr Cs SIPP in a timely 
manner. Theyve apologised for the delays they caused and provided an explanation on why 
they werent able to deliver the service levels theyd typically expect at that time. Whats at 
the heart of this complaint is, had it not been for the shortfalls in those service levels, at what 
point would Prudential have moved Mr Cs fund and therefore, the valuation that he should 
be entitled to receive.
Before I go further, I think it is important to make reference to a point that Mr C has made in 
his complaint to this service  a delayed UFPLS payment. Mr C explained that he wanted to 
take an income payment from his Prudential plan but didnt do so because of Prudentials 
inability to process the payment before the tax year end. He therefore decided that he would 
do so after switching his plan to ii. The UFPLS payment was made by ii to Mr C on 6 April 
2021. If Mr C is unhappy about the timing of that UFPLS payment being made in the 
2021/22 tax year, its a point he needs to take up with his current SIPP provider as my 
decision focuses purely on Prudential and they werent responsible for his pension after 26 
February 2021.
I actually think that the issue at the heart of this complaint is relatively straightforward. In his 
exchanges with both Prudential and this service, Mr C asked for various valuations on 
different dates in January, February and March to undertake a series of comparisons. But, it 
seems to me the most important consideration in this complaint is, had it not been for 
Prudentials IT issues, at which point they shouldve sent Mr Cs monies to ii. In situations 
such as this, whilst I cant say what would definitely have happened, I have to base my 
decision on whats most likely to have happened with the information I have before me. Looking at the timeline, it appears Mr C first made contact with Prudential on 23 December 
2020. Ive listened to the call Mr C had with our Investigator when he originally submitted his 
complaint to us. He explained he was becoming increasingly concerned about the service 
levels at Prudential and was looking at alternatives for his pension.
Following the Christmas break, Prudential spoke to Mr C on 12 January 2021. At that stage 
he confirmed he wished to transfer to ii. He then returned the relevant paperwork which 
Prudential received on 14 January 2021. Prudential have explained its at that point they had 
everything they needed from Mr C to process the transfer. From this point, it wouldve then 
taken them a week to complete their administration and as such, they concluded the 
consumer should be entitled to the value of the plan as of 21 January 2021. Thats when 
Prudential have stated they shouldve finalised the transfer. Mr Cs monies were invested in 
two equity funds and Prudentials with-profits fund. Given hed asked for his fund to be sent 
as cash only, that only required Prudential to sell down the assets and complete their 
respective due diligence on the receiving scheme. So, whilst thats a fairly quick timeline, its 
not implausible if theyre in receipt of fully completed paperwork. And Prudential explain that 
it was the service level agreement, which I would normally expect a business to comply with.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr C has explained Prudential should have used 
other valuation dates. He feels Prudential used 21 January to disadvantage him and the date 
is random bearing no link to what they wouldve been able to achieve in reality. However, I 
dont agree. Thats because by backdating the value to January, Prudential found 
themselves having to pay Mr C further funds. In addition, Prudential explained that after a 
phone call with Mr C on 12 January, by 14 January they then had everything they needed to 
start processing the transfer. I therefore dont think its reasonable that they would delay the 
switch for a further month or even into March because they already had the relevant 
paperwork needed. Conversely, had they done so and the unit price were less, Mr C would 
be well within his rights to challenge why they waited for two months. However, by working 
to the 21 January, the date isnt unreasonable and importantly, it puts Mr C back into the 
position he wouldve been in had Prudential worked to its service level agreement. 
Mr C said given his previous experience with Prudential taking several weeks to process an 
UFPLS payment, he didnt think theyd be able to switch a pension away in the timeframe 
they set out. However, having thought about that point of view, I dont agree. Thats because 
switching a pension and providing an UFPLS payment are both very different processes.
By working to the 21 January 2021, Im able to determine the difference between what Mr 
Cs plan should have yielded on that date, compared to what Prudential transferred to ii on 
26 February 2021. Prudential originally sent £656,677.96 to ii on 26 February. Having 
considered Mr Cs concerns, Prudential calculated they should have transferred £657,045.09 
meaning a further £367.13 needed to be sent to ii. Prudential have shown how the figure for 
21 January was reached and Ive no reason to believe it isnt correct.
Prudential also checked with ii that Mr C hadnt lost out on any investment growth on the 
transfer shortfall. Given that Mr C hadnt invested his transferred funds at that stage, then I 
think it was fair of Prudential to conclude that Mr C hadnt missed out on potential investment 
returns on the £367.13 by receiving it later.
Mr Cs pension was invested in two of Prudentials equity funds and also their with-profits 
fund. On transfer, the with-profits element of his fund benefited from a final bonus. Given the 
nature of with-profits funds, its not a simple matter to determine how that figure was 
formulated but, Ive no reason to believe its not accurate given such bonuses are 
determined by Actuaries. I should also explain that the level and nature of bonuses declared 
by Prudential on its with-profits fund is the result of a commercial decision taken by them 
acting on the advice of its Actuaries which impacts all policyholders invested in that fund. As a result, it is not within the remit of this service to either sense check Prudentials bonus 
decisions or scrutinise their calculations. Prudential have provided Mr C with a breakdown of 
the units within his fund on different dates and as our Investigator has already explained, this 
service does not provide a checking service. Our role is to determine the point at which the 
pension would most likely have been transferred in normal circumstances.
Mr C explained that he wanted Prudential to refund the annual management charge theyd 
taken from his plan on 14 February 2021. However, as Prudentials calculation took account 
of the plan value in January, the management charge from February wouldnt have been 
applied and therefore excluded from the transfer amount. So, the increased value never 
suffered that charge. Therefore, Mr C hasnt suffered that cost so Prudential have nothing 
further to refund.
Finally, Ive thought about the £400 Prudential offered to Mr C for the trouble and upset they 
caused him by delaying his transfer and in having to complain. I think based on the level of 
inconvenience hes suffered, the £400 appears fair and reasonable and in line with what I 
would typically recommend on similar cases such as this.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and I wont be asking The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman