DRN-3419158
The complaint
Mr D complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited provided misleading information about an
investment opportunity it promoted on its crowdfunding platform. He says he wouldnt have 
invested had it not been for that misleading information.
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business.
Mr D made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in early 2018. The pitch for the crowdfunding
campaign explained that:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry through its takeaway only locations with rapid
delivery and custom technology. Now raising funds for further expansion.
Mr D invested in Company A during this fundraising round and as Company A
substantially surpassed its initial £500,000 target, the round successfully closed in January
2018 and he was allocated shares.
Company A contacted Mr D in 2018 and 2019 explaining that it had decided to pivot its
business model away from branded high street stores to an online delivery model. But in
May 2020, Company A entered into a creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding up
resolution being passed by its members.
In June 2021, Mr D raised concerns with Crowdcube and requested he was compensated
for losses he had suffered.
Crowdcube informed our service it didnt think it had done anything wrong when promoting
the investment opportunity on its platform. In summary it said:
Company As directors determined that it was in the best interests of the company to
pivot away from opening takeaway stores and to move towards opening dark
kitchens. And this wasnt something that Crowdcube had or ever could have any
control over
It felt the pitch presented was clear, fair and not misleading
Investors had the opportunity to ask Company A further questions, which some
investors did. If investors had particular investment criteria, this would have been the
appropriate juncture to ask questions to understand whether Company A was fit
those investment criteria.
Mr D didnt accept Crowdcubes findings and so referred his complaint to this service. An 
investigator at this service considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary,
he said: 
Crowdcube didnt seek sufficient documentary evidence to see how likely Company 
As expansion plans were to go ahead.
Because of this, the investigator was of the opinion that the platform has fallen short 
of its regulatory requirements to present information that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading and failed to ensure it had acted in the best interests of its client.
He noted Crowdcube were also aware of what Company As plans were for using the 
funds at an early stage and this ought to have been disclosed in the pitch.
But despite that, he didnt think the opening of the physical stores were paramount to 
Mr Ds decision to invest.
He explained there was no evidence Mr D made enquiries with Company A or 
Crowdcube on the opening of additional sites even after Company A sent
updates which said it wasnt opening the sites as planned and that it was
moving to a dark kitchen model.
So, he noted that had Mr Ds decision to invest been based on the opening of 
physical locations, then he wouldve expected Mr D to have raised concerns when he 
received the updates.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he only invested in Company A based 
on the information Crowdcube provided and because it was a local business he wanted to 
support. He said hed met the founder of Company A in store at the beginning of the roll out 
and was satisfied enough at the time that more stores would open. So, whilst he was 
concerned when he found out the business model was pivoting, he did not chase it up as he 
hadnt since encountered the founder of Company. 
He strongly disagreed with the investigator that Crowdcubes failings concerning the 
promotion of the loan wouldnt have impacted his decision to invest, especially when the 
investigator had found that the platform had fallen short in the information it provided to 
investors.
As Mr D didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients,
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not
misleading.Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):
-The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr D had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform performs on investee companies.
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to
investment: []
-fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, 
clear and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr D 
aware of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the 
outcome of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and 
benefits of investing in Company A.
In essence, Mr D complains that Company A didnt use the funds it raised in the way in 
which Crowdcube promoted it on its platform. Having looked over the available evidence, I 
note that there is limited information on what the funds would be used for. The only 
information Ive seen says that Company A had grown from two sites to four and was looking 
for further expansion, but no further information is given on this point. As Crowdcube were 
promoting high-risk, non-readily realisable securities to Mr D, it was essential that 
Crowdcube accurately explain how the funds were intended to be used to allow prospective 
investors make a reasoned decision.
Crowdcube has explained that the due diligence it performed involved it discussing how 
Company A would use the funds for further expansion. It says Company A told Crowdcube it 
had a number of locations in mind but as plans were at an early stage, there was limited
documentary evidence available. Crowdcube was satisfied these plans were genuine and 
has provided call records dated November 2017 to show what was discussed with 
Company A before the pitch went live.
This includes the following note from the call:
4 units currently  several more in the pipeline  what does that mean?
Crowdcube strongly denies promoting the opening of further sites. Rather, it says it says it 
promoted Company A having increased its sites from two to four with the intention to expand 
further. However, Im not persuaded by Crowdcubes arguments. Crowdcube had a 
regulatory requirement to ensure the information it promoted was fair, clear and not 
misleading. Having looked at the pitch, its not clear what further expansion means. So, in 
the context of reading having grown from two sites to four, and now raising funds for 
further expansion, I think its reasonable to think Company A was looking to open new sites 
with the funds. As such, this leads me to conclude that Crowdcube didnt meet its obligations 
when promoting Company A.
In my view, Crowdcube should have executed basic checks on the plausibility on the 
statements Company A had made regarding its future expansion plans. I accept it may be 
difficult to test if a company will do as it says it intends to do in its pitch, and I further accept 
that Crowdcube did attempt to test the plausibility of the expansion statement by evidence of 
Company As track record in opening new stores in addition to Q&A. However, Crowdcube knew Company As plans for using the funds were at an early stage and were not 
substantiated with sufficient documentary evidence for it to conclude how plausible these
plans were. Considering Crowdcube had previously seen lease documents for prior 
premises, in the instance, I think Crowdcube ought to have have requested similar 
documents even if those were not yet concluded. In the absence of that information, I dont 
think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations under COBS 4.2.1R (1)  the fair, 
clear and not misleading rule. Further, where it failed to make Mr D aware of this in the pitch, 
I dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations under Principle 6
(PRIN 2.1.1R (6))  the clients best interest rule.
Whilst I think there was a failing in Crowdcubes due diligence, in order to uphold the
complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Mr D wouldnt have invested had Crowdcube made
him aware that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage and werent
substantiated with documentary evidence. Ive thought very carefully about this, but on
balance, Im persuaded he would have still invested despite Crowdcubes failing. I know this
will be disappointing for Mr D, but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
I understand Mr D says he wouldnt have invested had he known Company As expansion
plans werent substantiated and that it was going to switch to a different operating plan, but I
have to consider that hes complaining with the benefit of hindsight. To be clear, what I have 
to decide is whether Mr D wouldve still invested had he been told that Company As plans to 
open new stores were at an early stage and that Crowdcube hadnt seen any documentary 
evidence to substantiate the plans.
Company A sent updates to Mr D in 2018 and 2019 to explain it had made a material 
change to its expansion plans. Despite the update, Mr D didnt contact Company A or 
Crowdcube to query this. So, if it is as Mr D says, that the opening of stores was central to 
him investing, I would have expected to see queries to have been raised following Company 
A changing its expansion plans, especially given the assertions he was provided at the 
outset by the founder.
Mr D says he didnt query the change in plans because he hadnt met the founder of 
Company in person A again. But looking at the evidence, Im not persuaded his decision to 
invest was based purely on the opening of new stores.
I say this because whist the pitch explained what Company A wanted to use the funds raised 
for, it also provided financial information which may have influenced Mr Ds decision to 
invest. This included information regarding Company As revenue and sales growth:
Our revenue in 2016 was £1.23m with EBITDA of - £300k....We have seen sales
grow by 75% to October and are profitable at store level since October.
The pitch also spoke ambitiously about the potential market of the takeout industry and
Company As position in it. To my mind, there were a number of reasons as to why Mr D 
may have decided to invest in Company A, other than the opening of new sites. And as Mr D 
didnt raise any concerns at the time Company A deviated from the plans provided in the 
pitch, this further supports that he invested in Company A as he had confidence in the 
overall financial prospect of the business and wouldve done so even if he had been told the 
expansion plans were at an early stage.
Mr D also says he inly invested as he believed the funds raised would be directed as laid 
out in the business plan and at the time had no idea that this plan would not be adhered to. 
My findings havent set out that there were failings due to the business plan not being 
followed. The business plan wasnt a document Crowdcube was responsible for ensuring the 
accuracy of because it didnt form part of the pitch approved by it. So, when considering whether Mr D would have invested, on balance, Im satisfied he would have as the business 
plan document wasnt part of the promotion and wasnt linked to the failing Ive identified.
Taking into account all of the above, I havent found evidence to persuade me that clearer
information about the expansion plans would have changed Mr Ds decision to invest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Crowdcube Capital Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman