DRN-3830627
The complaint
Miss P complains that Salad Finance Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved a loan.
What happened
Miss P applied for a loan with Salad Finance in August 2021. Salad Finance approved the 
application and gave Miss P a loan for £1000 over a term of 12 months with monthly 
instalments of £108.84. The total amount repayable was £1305.47.
Miss P complained that Salad Finance had lent irresponsibly. Salad Finance didnt uphold 
the complaint. Miss P brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Salad Finance had carried out proportionate checks and that 
the lending decision was fair.
Miss P didnt agree. She didnt think there had been proportionate checks. The complaint 
has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ps complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Salad Finance had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Miss P could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors including the amount of credit, the amount of repayments, the cost of credit and the 
consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Salad Finance says it used open banking to obtain information about Miss Ps income and 
expenditure.
Ive reviewed the information it obtained. This shows that Miss P was employed with an 
average net monthly salary of around £1972. Miss P also received child benefit of around 
£49 per week and universal credit of around £1211 per month.
Miss Ps average monthly expenditure was £2800. This included payments for housing, 
utilities, household and existing consumer credit commitments. These checks identified that 
Mis P was making payments to a debt collection agency for around 10 months, with no 
missed payments.
I can see that Salad Finance carried out checks to identify whether there was any gambling 
spending on Miss Ps account and whether there was evidence of large cash withdrawals. 
No evidence of either was identified.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Salad Finance carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving the loan. I dont think there was anything in the information 
gathered by Salad Finance to necessitate further or more detailed checks being carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
The information gathered by Salad Finance showed that Miss P had disposable income of 
around £600 per month before the payment for the new loan. There was nothing to suggest 
that Miss P was experiencing financial difficulties, or that the loan was unaffordable. Based 
on the checks carried out and the information obtained, Im unable to say that Salad Finance 
lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman