DRN-1733520
 
The complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to him irresponsibly. Mr 
C says that Sunny didn't properly assess if he could repay the loans. He says that if it had 
done it wouldve realised that he couldn't meet the loan repayments sustainably and it 
wouldn't have lent to him. This has impacted negatively on his financial position and mental 
health.  
What happened
This complaint is about ten instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr C between February 2018 
and March 2019. Below is a table that contains some of the information Sunny has provided 
about the lending. 
loan number date startedamount 
borroweddate ended
1 12/02/2018 £350 04/05/2018
2 24/05/2018 £150 22/06/2018
3 12/07/2018 £350 21/12/2018
4 10/09/2018 £50 08/02/2019
5 18/10/2018 £100 07/03/2019
6 30/11/2018 £300 07/06/2019
7 25/01/2019 £50 07/03/2019
8 07/03/2019 £150 outstanding
9 12/03/2019 £50 26/06/2019
10 19/03/2019 £50 26/06/2019
All of the loans had 24 weekly instalments. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. She thought that Sunny shouldve been doing 
better checks at loan 5. But she didn't have enough information to say that Sunny shouldn't 
have approved this loan. She thought that Mr Cs overall pattern of lending showed that 
Sunny shouldve stopped lending at loan 6. 
Mr C didn't disagree with the adjudicators opinion. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
Loan 5 was for a relatively small amount and it made appropriate checks before 
lending. This included the information Mr C had provided and credit and other 
checks. It provided detailed information on the checks it did. 
It didn't accept that Mr C was persistently reliant on short term lending at loan 6. He 
had only been borrowing for nine months at this time. The amounts he borrowed were small and as he repaid the loans quickly the interest he repaid was minimal. 
There was no suggestion that he was refinancing his loans repeatedly. 
At a later time Sunny agreed that it should have asked more questions before approving 
loans 8, 9 and 10. It offered compensation in respect of these loans. Mr C didn't accept this 
offer. So as no agreement has been reached complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr C didn't disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. I have looked at the detailed information Sunny has provided about the checks it did before 
approving this lending. But as Mr C doesn't now disagree with this part of the complaint, it 
isn't necessary to comment on this further. 
But these loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr C had with Sunny. So they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 10 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending 
history with Mr C, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should have realised that it shouldn't have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr C had been indebted to Sunny for over eight months. I think this is a 
long enough time for Sunny to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans were leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness had become unsustainable
Mr Cs first loan was for £350 and loan 6 was for £300.  At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mr C was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need
From the first loan onwards Mr C was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling a previous one. And at times he had more than one loan running at the same 
time. Even though some of the loan amounts borrowed could be modest the overall 
indebtedness didn't always decrease. 
Mr C wasn't making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 10 was 
taken out over a year after Mr Cs first.  Mr C was servicing a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
I dont think this is affected by Mr C repaying some of his loans earlier and paying 
lower interest than if the loans had run to their intended term
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 10 and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 6 to 10;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 10 should be removed from Mr 
Cs credit file.
If Mr C still owes Sunny any of the principal balance he borrowed on loan eight Sunny 
should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance. Sunny should 
then re-work the account as if all payments made by Mr C went to towards the principal. But importantly, Sunny needs to make sure that Mr C doesn't repay more than the principal 
amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr C hasn't repaid the principal he borrowed Sunny can deduct this from 
the remainder of the compensation. If, Mr C has already paid enough to repay the principal 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple* interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if Sunny no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesn't then it isn't entitled to make any deductions for it 
from the amount it needs to pay Mr C.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman