DRN-3107006
The complaint
Mrs W complains about advice she and her husband  Mr W  received from Kingdom 
Investments Management Limited about setting up two joint life assurance policies in trust. 
Mr and Mrs W were to be joint trustees for the trusts.
Mrs W is represented by a firm of solicitors in this complaint. That same firm of solicitors are 
also acting with Mrs W as the executors for Mr Ws estate. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W used Kingdom Investments to set up two single premium life policies in 2012. 
Notes from the time  which Mrs Ws representative has raised disputes with  show each 
policy was intended to pay money to one of Mr and Mrs Ws two children. The documents 
show the money to pay for the policies was coming jointly from Mr and Mrs W.
The policies were set up in trust under Scottish law, using the policy providers standard 
forms. Both Mr and Mrs W were named as joint trustees. 
But it seems neither Mr W nor Mrs W told the two beneficiaries about the trusts. Mrs Ws 
representative says that means the trusts werent properly set up. This was raised on behalf 
of Mr and Mrs W with Kingdom Investments. 
Mr W sadly died while the complaint was being considered. The life assurance policies paid 
out to Mrs W as the remaining trustee of the two trusts. But she and the solicitor acting for 
Mr Ws estate seem to have treated the funds as not being in trust. 
Kingdom Investments dont really agree the trusts were wrongly set up. But in any case, they 
argue that documents given to Mr and Mrs W at the time made it clear they werent advising 
about what Mr and Mrs W would need to do as trustees. 
Unresolved, the complaint was brought to us  with Mrs Ws representative expanding on 
the failings they felt had occurred here. Our investigator looked into the matter. She felt the 
documents from 2012  with their warnings about seeking independent legal advice about 
trust issues  did enough to make it clear Kingdom Investments were providing investment 
advice, not trust advice. She concluded it wasnt their fault if the trust hadnt been set up 
correctly due to the trustees not telling the beneficiaries about it. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs W has asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Her 
representatives have repeated that they didnt receive one of the documents from 2012. And 
theyve argued that the nature of the meeting between Mr and Mrs W and Kingdom 
Investments means it should have included legal advice about trusts in any case. 
The complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My focus is on the service provided by Kingdom Investments. Although Mrs Ws 
representative has presented an interesting legal question about when a Scottish trust 
becomes valid, the issue for me is whether Kingdom Investments should have done more 
when it advised Mr and Mrs W to place the policies in trust. 
Im not entirely convinced by the argument thats been made about the trust being invalid. 
Mr and Mrs W were to be joint trustees of trusts holding assets funded by both of them. To 
me, thats different to the case law Mrs Ws representative has put forward, which seems to 
focus on sole trustees dealing with trusts of only their own money. 
With that said, I find it likely Kingdom Investments didnt tell Mr and Mrs W whether they 
needed to tell the beneficiaries about the trust. Theres nothing in the written documents 
from the time saying they did. And the documents I have seen show a consistency in 
Kingdom Investments position  they didnt give legal advice about trusts. 
Despite Mrs Ws representative saying she doesnt remember ever receiving the key 
document with the warnings about Kingdom Investments not giving trust advice, it does still 
form part of my decision. It shows Kingdom Investment probably werent giving any trust 
advice, other than saying a trust could be set up to achieve what Mr and Mrs W wanted. 
Ive looked as well to see if Mr and Mrs W ever asked Kingdom Investments for trust advice, 
or if theyd made Kingdom Investments aware they didnt plan to tell the beneficiaries about 
the trusts. That could suggest the point was discussed in detail at the time, or that it needed 
to be as part of the service provided. But I cant see anything like that. 
What I have is documents showing Mr and Mrs W knew they were to be trustees. And 
documents saying Kingdom Investments most likely took the position that they couldnt 
specifically advise about what that involved. I cant see that any further questions were 
raised by Mr and Mrs W. Or that there were any obvious signs of confusion for Mr and 
Mrs W with the information provided to them about that. 
As trustees of the trust, it was then for Mr and Mrs W to make sure they fulfilled their role 
correctly. I wouldnt expect Kingdom Investments to check on them after theyd advised them 
about their investment options. I find it was reasonable Kingdom Investments didnt do more 
to insist Mr and Mrs W take legal advice about what theyd need to do as trustees, before 
going ahead with the plans. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman