DRN-1818995
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in 
2008-2010. He said he was in financial difficulty at that time with his overdraft and credit card 
account and when he asked for a personal loan to consolidate his debt it was declined and 
RBS didnt help him. 
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr H and RBS so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
In 2008 and 2009 Mr H says he was experiencing financial difficulty. At that time he had a 
credit card and also a bank account with RBS. The bank account was subsequently closed 
in 2010, but before it was Mr H had made 3 applications for a personal loan because he 
wanted to consolidate his debts. 
His bank account had an overdraft facility which in 2003 was increased to £2,060 at Mr Hs 
request. When the account was closed it was £500 under the overdraft limit and Mr H had 
managed to operate his account within the limit since 2003.
RBS have said that they have no record of Mr H asking for help or telling them that he was in 
financial difficulty. They also initially rejected his complaint as they thought he had brought it 
out of time, but after discussing it with our investigator they agreed to investigate it further. 
Having done so they rejected the complaint on the basis that the decision to decline the loan 
application was one they were entitled to make.
Mr H was unhappy with RBSs response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt think RBS had acted unfairly, because after all this time, 
there was no available evidence to say or show that RBS had acted in such a way. As Mr H 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. Im not the industry regulator, and I dont have power 
to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their processes, or punish 
them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I will consider whether RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H. I aim to 
address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  But, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
So, I think we have a difficult case here, because there is very little evidence for this service 
to look at given that about 10 years have passed since Mr H closed his account. What I am 
able to tell, and which is of significance, is that Mr H ran his overdraft between 2003 and 
2010 without breaching the limit. On the face of it that tells me he was managing his finances 
well because he was adhering to the limit. Just because a customer has an overdraft doesnt 
mean that they are in financial difficulty. 
There is no evidence from either RBS or Mr H that he ever made known to RBS that he was 
in financial difficulty. The only evidence that there is that might go to that issue, is the fact 
that he applied for a personal loan, but again that on its own that doesnt indicate that he 
was in financial difficulty. It could do, but it could also indicate that he was simply looking to 
restructure his debt onto a better footing.
It is only when a bank knows that their customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to 
treat that customer positively and sympathetically with a view to offering help depending on 
the customers circumstances. But the pre-requisite is that they must know the customer is in 
such difficulty and in Mr Hs case there is no evidence that they did.
So, although Mr H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. So I cant say RBS have acted unfairly and Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman