DRN-2348912
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled things after she made it aware that 
she had been the victim of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here.
Miss I had relocated to Italy and was looking for accommodation to rent. On finding a 
property she was interested in renting she contacted whom she believed to be the property 
owner. Shes told us contact was via email. Unfortunately, unbeknown to Miss I she was in 
contact with a fraudster.
During their contact, Miss I said the third party sent her a copy of their passport details and 
the address where they were currently residing after they had to return home from Italy. 
Miss I was asked for one months rent and a deposit. She was told this would be handled by 
Airbnb and she was asked for her details, for example her passport details, address and also 
her codice fiscale which Miss I has explained is similar to a UK National Insurance number. 
Miss Is told us she received emails which appeared to be from Airbnb. She says these 
included an email address, logo, letterhead and confirmed the person she was in touch with 
was the property owner and she was the possible tenant. As Miss I believed she was paying 
a trusted agent  an agent of Airbnb she went ahead and made an international transfer of 
£1,103.55 (for one months rent and the deposit). The international transfer shows as being 
sent from Miss Is account on 2 October 2019. 
Soon after, Miss I said the property owner stopped responding to her, so she contacted 
Airbnb. It was at this time Miss I became aware of the scam. She contacted Lloyds on 
3 October 2019 to report shed been the victim of a scam. Lloyds contacted the receiving 
bank the same day, but it received a response to say it was unable to return the funds.  
Miss I complained to Lloyds. Lloyds in its response said Miss I authorised the transfer and 
there was no bank error. It added that the payment wasnt covered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) due to the type of transaction  international transfer. 
Miss I was unhappy with the response from Lloyds and so contacted this service. Her 
complaint was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
consider the payment to be unusual enough that it shouldve been identified as potential 
fraud by the bank. And she thought the bank had done all it could to try recover the funds 
once the scam had been reported. 
Our investigator recognised the error within Lloyds response letter of 30 October 2019, in 
which it indicated Miss I was happy with its outcome, would have been frustrating for her. 
Our investigator noted Lloyds issued Miss I with a corrected letter and that while the initial 
letter included an error this had not prevented her from pursuing the matter with our service. 
When taking everything into account, the investigator didnt consider Lloyds needed to pay 
any compensation in relation to this aspect.
Miss I didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said the payment was made while she 
was in Italy from a UK account to a Polish account for a sum of over £1,000. Given this, 
Miss I doesnt agree this payment can be considered typical activity for her account. 
Because Miss I didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an authorised payment even though Miss I was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. She requested for the payment to be made so, although she did not intend the money 
to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Miss I is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss I when she carried out this payment to a fraudster, or whether it should have done 
more than it did. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss I, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Lloyds actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the payment to be 
made from Miss Is account, so I cant fairly say Lloyds should reimburse Miss I the payment 
she lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
Miss I authorised the payment of £1,103.55 herself through her online banking. Because of 
this, Lloyds had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which 
it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the payment - 
as Ive explained, I consider that, as a matter of good practice, Lloyds shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.Ive first considered the payment Miss I made and whether the payment was out of character 
and unusual. Looking at the account statements from January 2019 up to the scam 
payment, while I can see Miss I hadnt made a payment of this size, I need to keep in mind 
that it is not untypical for consumers to make one-off payments for this amount  as was the 
case here for one months rent and a deposit for a property Miss I wished to rent. I can also 
see the scam payment didnt empty the account or leave it in a negative position. 
Ive thought carefully about Miss Is personal views about the payment. In particular that the 
payment was made from a UK account whilst she was in Italy to a Polish account for a sum 
of over £1,000. While I do appreciate Miss I feels this wasnt standard activity on her 
account, Im not persuaded the fact she made the payment whilst abroad ought fairly and 
reasonably to have caused Lloyds concern that she might be at risk of financial harm. I say 
this because it is not untypical for customers to access their banking facilities or use their 
accounts whilst abroad. And as mentioned above, Miss I authorised the international transfer 
via her online banking. I dont think Lloyds needed to intervene in this particular case just 
because the payment was an international one.
Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments as per its customers 
instruction and monitor accounts for unusual and potentially harmful activity. But overall, 
when thinking about all the above factors together, Im not persuaded the payment was so 
unusual or suspicious that Lloyds ought to have intervened or prevented it in this case.
Reporting and recovery of funds
Ive gone on to think about whether Lloyds did what it shouldve done once Miss I reported 
that shed been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Lloyds to refund 
the money to Miss I, Id need to be satisfied Lloyds should have acted sooner in trying to 
recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it 
made any difference.
From the information Ive seen, Lloyds promptly contacted the receiving bank to try to 
recover the funds once the scam was reported to it. Unfortunately though, the receiving bank 
in this instance informed Lloyds that it would not be able to return the funds to Miss Is 
account. At this point there was nothing more Lloyds could do to get this money back for 
Miss I. I understand this will come as a disappointment to her. However, Im satisfied Lloyds 
did all it could in trying to recover the money. It has no power over the receiving bank and 
unfortunately cant compel it to return the money. 
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Miss I has been through here. But unfortunately, 
Im not persuaded that this was a consequence of any specific failing on the part of Lloyds  
so whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint her, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds 
to refund the loss.
Im aware Miss I feels Lloyds showed no interest in her issue and that shes dissatisfied it 
referred to her being happy with its outcome within its letter of 30 October 2019, when this 
was not the case. I appreciate that both Lloyds response to say it would not refund the 
money Miss I had lost, along with its letter stating she was happy with the outcome would 
have come as a disappointment to her and caused her frustration. Ive already explained 
above why I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund Miss I the money shes lost. It 
has also been accepted that an error was made within Lloyds initial response letter with 
regards to how she felt about its outcome. I can see Lloyds sent a corrected letter to Miss I 
which clarified she remained unhappy. In the circumstances, whilst there was an error within 
the initial letter, I can see the letter provided Miss I with referral rights to come to our service. 
So, Im satisfied the error did not prevent Miss I for pursuing the matter or from bringing her 
concerns to us. Because of this, I make no recommendation in relation to this aspect. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman