DRN-3516275
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) has refused to refund 
payments she made to what she believed was a legitimate binary options trading company 
(CFD1000).  These payments were made using Mrs Ts M&S Mastercard credit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, in January 2016, Mrs T made several payments to what she thought was her 
trading account with CFD1000.  At the time, Mrs T believed that CFD1000 were a legitimate 
binary options trading company.  However, she later discovered that they were operating a 
scam.
Mrs T asked M&S to try to recover her money.  As this did not happen, she raised a 
complaint.  In short, M&S said that Mrs T had no section 75 rights under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.  Unhappy with this, Mrs T referred her complaint to our service.
Based on Mrs Ts statements, she made the following payments to CFD1000 using her M&S 
Mastercard credit card (transaction fees in italics):
Date Merchant Amount
6 January 2016 Cfd1000.com £1,364.07
Non-sterling transaction fee £40.79
6 January 2016 Cfd1000.com £1,364.07
Non-sterling transaction fee £40.79
6 January 2016 Cfd1000.com £2,728.14
Non-sterling transaction fee £81.57
8 January 2016 Cfd1000.com £3,418.34
Non-sterling transaction fee £102.21
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  In short, she did not think 
Mrs T had any chargeback rights.  However, she held that Mrs T did have a valid claim for 
misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75.  Therefore, she suggested M&S 
refund to Mrs T all the payments she made to CFD1000, plus transaction fees; and rework 
her account so that all interest and charges caused by those payments are refunded.
Mrs T accepted the investigators findings, but M&S did not.  Its position, broadly, is that:
Mrs T was careless because she only researched CFD1000 after she lost her 
money.
There is only Mrs Ts testimony of the key facts, rather than any documents or 
contracts.
It took Mrs T a significant amount of time to raise this matter.
The points the investigator raised are generic and do not apply to the specific facts of 
Mrs Ts case.
There is no identifiable action for misrepresentation or breach of contract.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 18 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld on the 
basis that M&S is liable to Mrs T under section 75.  However, I do not agree with the way in 
which the investigator dealt with redress in her findings.  I will come back to this point at the 
end of my provisional decision after addressing liability under section 75.
Chargeback
I have first considered that Mrs T had no valid chargeback rights under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.  I say this because she did not have the evidence needed to satisfy the 
requirements of the scheme rules.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I would like to say that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a submission I 
have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply because my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.  
Moreover, M&S is more than familiar with this services approach to these types of 
complaints.
In very broad summary:
There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 75:
oMrs T (the debtor);
oM&S (the creditor); and
oCFD1000 (the supplier).
The transactions Mrs T made were financed by her agreement with M&S (the 
deposit-transactions).
Mrs Ts claim does not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions in this case.
I will now turn to whether Mrs T has a valid claim for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract.  
Misrepresentation
In Mrs Ts submissions, she has said, amongst other things:In January 2016, CFD1000 contacted her about moving her small Option Acct to 
them as this would be more profitable.
Initially I put about £5000 into their trading acct.  Within a few days they were trading 
very recklessly and my acct went down considerably. I contacted them and spoke to 
[Ray] the main trader and he said if I put in a certain amount of money the trades 
would be guaranteed and this I did.
Ray then started to give her reasons to doubt his credibility.
Because of this, she started to do some research and discovered her trading platform 
was not real.
She went to CFD1000s purported London office only to discover it did not exist.
I had $9000 in my acct and phoned them to close the acct.  [W]ithin a couple of 
hours they had made 16 trades all unprofitable and the acct went down to $45000. I 
phoned to ask them to stop all trades and they said if I wanted to close the ac[c]t I 
would have to pay another $25000.  At this point I knew it was all a scam and quite 
frankly I had been a fool.
She dealt with CFD1000 over the telephone, so she does not have any emails.
The company had an address in London and like everyone else I thought I was 
dealing with a London based company.
There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that 
repeat the tactics of investment trading scammers that match those used by CFD1000.  This 
does lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being placed on the 
outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact CFD1000 offered little more than a video 
game or simulation.
Moreover, there are several negative online reviews about CFD1000; further, the Financial 
Conduct Authority published a warning about them on 20 June 2016.  I acknowledge this 
warning was published about five months after Mrs P made her final payment to CFD1000.  
However, taking this (and everything I have set out above) together  further supports that 
CFD1000 operated fraudulently.
I have also noted that CFD1000 was not regulated (as required) in the UK or abroad (as far 
as Im reasonably aware).  And it would be reasonable for me to conclude that a legitimate 
company would comply with regulatory requirements. 
So, for the above reasons, I do not think it is likely CFD1000 were operating a legitimate 
enterprise.  Therefore, I am persuaded they made misrepresentations to Mrs T.  That is, that 
they were running a genuine enterprise through which she could never have got back more 
than her deposits from the platform.  I am also satisfied that if Mrs T had known this, she 
would not have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of 
these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties.  This is the factual but for test for causation; andb) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
In this case, the transaction fees linked to the deposit-transactions are somewhat straight 
forward to cover off.  Had the deposit-transactions not occurred, the transaction fees would 
not have come about.  The transaction fees were a direct consequence of each deposit-
transaction.  As the payment was made outside of the UK, it is foreseeable that a bank used 
by Mrs T to make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment.  So, I am 
satisfied Mrs Ts payments of the transaction fees were consequential losses in 
misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract
Here, Mrs T has deposited funds to an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished.  
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
were transactions (the deposit-transactions) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that CFD1000 had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mrs T to use the funds from her deposits on an investment platform; and 
b) To enable Mrs T to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
Mrs T was not able to use the funds from her deposits on the investment platform.  Further, 
she says CFD1000 prevented her from withdrawing funds from her trading account when 
she wanted to.  Taking these points together, I am satisfied that CFD1000 breached the 
above contractual obligations.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mrs Ts loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of her deposits.
Transaction fee
I need to consider how much better off Mrs T would have been if the merchant had fulfilled 
their contractual obligations to her.  Applying that test to each deposit-transaction, it is clear 
that each transaction fee was not a recoverable consequence of the deposit-transaction.  I 
say this because allowing Mrs T to trade on the account and withdraw the deposit as and 
when she wished would not have prevented her from having to pay the transaction fee. 
So, the transaction fee should not be held as a recoverable loss in connection with the 
breach of contract claim relating to the deposit-transactions. 
In summary
I have established two grounds Mrs T could have recovered her credit card deposit-
transactions: misrepresentation and breach of contract.  As a claim for misrepresentation 
gives the highest sum, M&S should put Mrs T back into the position she would have been 
had the deposit-transactions not been entered into.  So, she should receive refunds of these 
amounts.
RedressAs mentioned at the outset of my provisional findings, whilst I agree with the investigator that 
this complaint should be upheld  I do not agree with the way she dealt with redress.
I say this because the investigator asked M&S to, amongst other things: Refund [Mrs T] 
£8,874.62 and rework [her] account so that all interest and charges caused by those 
payments are refunded (emphasis added).  However, section 75 requires payment of the 
damages for which the supplier is liable, plus 8% interest from the date of Mrs Ts losses (i.e. 
the date the sum was repaid).  In this instance, thats the deposit-transactions.  Therefore, I 
have set out the correct approach to redress below.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs T responded to say she had nothing further to add.  However, M&S did not respond.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mrs T has nothing further to add and M&S did not respond  I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc:
Pay Mrs T all the money she lost, including applicable transaction fees (set out 
above); plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mrs Ts account 
until the date of settlement.
If Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc deducts tax in relation to the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mrs T with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman