DRN-3176072
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S have complained that Admiral overcharged them for their motor insurance 
policy.
Mrs K is the principal policyholder and Mr S is a named driver. Mrs K had the majority of the 
dealings with Admiral. So, except for where I think its necessary to refer to Mr S in person, 
reference to Mrs K should be read as being in respect of both her and Mr S.
 
My provisional decision 
On 8 November 2021 I issued a provisional decision. For ease, Ive copied the relevant 
extracts from that decision below. I said:
What happened
Mrs K had a multi-car policy with Admiral. When the policy renewed, in March 2019, Admiral 
charged her around £6,000 to insure four cars on the policy. Mrs K made some changes to 
the policy during the subsequent months, including adding and removing temporary drivers, 
which affected the premiums payable.
In October 2019 Mr S was involved in an accident. He didn't claim for the damage to his own 
car but the other driver claimed against his policy. While looking into that claim Admiral 
learned that both Mrs K and Mr S had points on their licence that Admiral hadn't previously 
been aware of. There was also an issue over what Admiral had recorded as Mrs K and Mr S 
occupations. It said that if it had been aware of those penalty points and changes of 
occupation when the policy renewed it would have charged over £10,000 to insure them for 
all of their cars for the policy year from the outset. So it said it would charge an additional 
premium to make up the shortfall.
Mrs K then made some further changes to the policy in December 2019; removing some 
cars from cover and adding another. Having done so Admiral told her that if she wanted her 
policy to run until the end of its term in March 2020 she would need to pay it around £5,523. 
Admiral told her if she wanted to cancel the policy she would still need to pay a similar sum. 
Mrs K wasn't happy with the amounts Admiral was asking her to pay. She also pointed out 
that Admiral had included Mr S as a named driver on the car added to the policy in 
December 2019, which she hadn't asked for. Admiral acknowledged that was a mistake, 
removed Mr S from the cover and paid her £50 compensation for the impact of its mistake. 
Admiral said that Mrs K could cancel her policy, based on the original premiums charged 
before adding the penalty points and occupation changes. The policy was cancelled from 
10 February 2020. Admiral said after recalculating the premiums based on the original 
figures before adding the penalty points etc Mrs K still owed around £2,995.
Mrs K didn't think Admiral had treated her fairly and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She noted that when Admiral spoke with Mrs K on the phone, all 
the figures Admiral gave her for cancellation referred to the premiums after the penalty 
points had been added. She said Admiral needed to recalculate the sums owing to reflect 
the original renewal premiums from March 2019. Admiral said it had already done that when 
it responded to the complaint and gave the figure owing of £2,995. Our investigator asked 
Admiral for evidence of how it had calculated that figure. Admiral didn't initially reply to our 
investigators question, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans review. While the case 
has been awaiting my attention, Admiral provided us with some additional information about 
the sums it has charged Mrs K. But it didn't provide a breakdown of how it had calculated the 
amount outstanding.
After an initial review of the file, I put some questions to Admiral, including asking it to 
explain how it had arrived at the figure of £2,995 premium balance outstanding. While it did 
provide me with some additional information and further phone call recordings, it didnt 
answer that question or a number of others I asked it to address. I now need to make a 
provisional decision based on the information and evidence I do have.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr S was involved in an accident, Admiral learned that both he and Mrs K had points 
on their licences and that thered been some other changes to their circumstances. None of 
which it had been made aware of when the policy renewed in 2019. Admiral said that if it had 
known about those points from the outset it would have charged a significantly higher 
premium.
Admiral updated Mrs Ks policy and sent her a number of letters in November 2019 setting 
out the changes it had made to it. One of those said that - owing to the discrepancies 
identified - Mrs Ks charges had increased by £5,895. That was because Admiral had 
calculated how much Mrs K should have paid - if it had been aware of the penalty points etc 
- backdated to the policy renewal date in March 2019. But another letter sent the same day 
said that if she didn't wish to pay the additional premium due, then she could cancel the 
policy based on the original premium. That is Admiral was offering Mrs K the opportunity to 
cancel the policy without paying the backdated charge. I think the offer to cancel based on 
the original premium was fair as its in line with what the relevant law says Admiral should do 
in this situation.
Ive noted that Mrs K rang Admiral on 3 December 2019 to discuss the matter. She spoke 
with one of Admirals underwriting team who explained the changes that had been made to 
the policy and that the key cause for the increase in premium was because of the additional 
penalty points. The call handler told Mrs K that, if she didn't want to pay the additional 
premium she didn't have to and she could cancel her policy based on the original premium. 
The underwriting team member said she would put Mrs K through to its customer services 
team to calculate how much that would cost Mrs K.
Ive heard a recording of the handover between Admiral's underwriting team member and 
her colleague in customer services. The underwriting team member explained that Mrs K 
was looking for a quote to cancel her policy. But, crucially, the underwriting team member 
didn't explain to her colleague that the quote Mrs K was looking for should be calculated at 
the original premium when Mrs K took out the policy in March 2019. So, when Admirals 
customer service representative gave Mrs K a quote for cancelling the policy he did so 
based on the amended premium which included the additional sums backdated to 
March 2019. He asked Mrs K what date she would like to cancel from and she said 
16 December 2019. So the call handler calculated what Mrs K would owe up to that date, 
including the updated premium; that figure was £6,130.67.I should add that by the end of the call Admirals customer service agent told Mrs K that it 
appears that the system hadn't updated and he'd need to ring her back the next day with 
updated figures. I don't know whether he rang her back as neither Admiral nor Mrs K has 
referred to that call. But, what I do know is that Admiral gave Mrs K incredibly misleading 
figures during the call I have heard. As I've said above what Admiral should have been doing 
was working out what it would have cost Mrs K to cancel the policy, as at her chosen date of 
16 December 2019, based on her original premium before Admiral had updated the policy. 
But it didn't do that.
Its worth noting that, at that time, Mrs K was paying her premium by monthly instalments, of 
around £504 each. Those payments were up to date. The next premium fell due on 
17 December 2019. So as Mrs Ks instalments were up to date, and Admiral wasn't 
supposed to be charging her any additional premium because of the penalty points etc, its 
unlikely that she had a large balance outstanding. That said, as there'd been a claim against 
the policy for the accident Mr S had been involved in that would have affected the amount 
shed have to pay to cancel the policy.
It might help if I explain that, Admiral had paid out on a claim (to the other drivers insurer) 
involving the car Mr S was driving when he had the accident. Ill refer to the car Mr S was 
driving at the time as G. And in those circumstances Mrs K wasn't entitled to any refund of 
premium for that car. Thats because its usual, where an insurer has paid out on a claim for 
a car, for the full years premium to be due for it, even if the policy is cancelled before the full 
year is up. Thats a standard policy term in motor insurance and I don't find it unfair as the 
policyholder has had the benefit of the cover for that car. So that would have affected the 
balance Mrs K owed. But I understand the amount outstanding for the full years premium for 
G was around £336. And by my calculations, the total amount Mrs K most still likely owed  
up to 16 December 2019 and including the remaining full annual premium for G  was in the 
region of £500, which was around her usual premium instalment figure.
But Admiral quoted Mrs K a figure that was over 12 times more than that. So she didn't 
instantly cancel her policy as she needed to think about what to do. And if Admiral had told 
Mrs K what the actual sum she owed was, I have no doubt she would have asked Admiral to 
cancel the policy, based on the original premium amount straightaway. That would have 
allowed her to settle up with Admiral and insure her cars elsewhere from 17 December 2019. 
But because of Admirals misleading advice it appears that didn't happen.
Further, Mrs K spoke with Admiral on numerous other occasions following that to discuss her 
options. I've listened to many of those calls, spanning a number of hours, although there are 
clearly more I haven't heard. And during those calls Admiral didn't ever tell Mrs K she could 
cancel at the original premium figures. It consistently told her that she owed in excess of 
£4,000, and usually told her she'd have to pay at least £5,000, whether she cancelled the 
policy or not. And during those calls Admiral wasn't always clear about what it was that was 
causing those figures to be so high. Admirals lack of clarity led Mrs K to believe that it was 
the fact that there was an open claim on the policy that was causing the high figures. So she 
expected, once Admiral had closed the claim down, for those figures to reduce. So she 
waited. But that wasn't the case, it was the additional premium caused by the penalty points 
that was the key factor in the high figures. As a result, even after Admiral confirmed it had 
closed the claim, it still told her she owed in excess of £5,000.
While this was going on, Mrs K sold one of her cars and declared two others off the road 
(known as SORN, one of which was G). She contacted Admiral on 17 December 2019 to try 
to remove those cars from cover. But because of the amounts Admiral said she owed it 
didn't actually make those changes until 31 December 2019. I don't think that delay would 
have happened if Admiral had given Mrs K the right information on 3 December 2019. In fact 
I think she would have cancelled her policy; so she wouldn't have needed to make amendments to it. But that hadn't happened. So her policy was still live, and she was still 
paying to cover the cars that she had sold or were off road. In those circumstances I don't 
think it was fair that Admiral charged Mrs K for cover for the car which she sold or for the 
SORN car that wasnt G between 17 December 2019 and 30 December 2019. So I intend to 
instruct Admiral to remove that cover from its charges for those two cars for that period. 
Mrs K kept two cars on cover with Admiral up until 10 February 2020. While I don't think 
she'd have done that if Admiral had given her the correct cancellation figure on 
3 December 2019 it did provide cover for her during that period. So I think its fair that Mrs K 
pays the premiums for those cars up to 10 February 2020.
I've noted that, as far as I'm aware, Mrs K didn't make any further premium payments to 
Admiral between December and her policy cancelling in February 2020. So she will still 
undoubtedly owe Admiral a balance of premiums that it will be reasonable for it to charge 
her.
In Admirals response to Mrs Ks complaint it said that, after cancelling her policy and only 
charging her at her original premiums, she still owed £2,995. I asked Admiral to explain how 
it arrived at that figure. It didn't answer my question. I can't see any reasonable method by 
which Admiral calculated that sum.
But, Admiral has provided us with a more recent calculation of what it believed it should have 
charged Mrs K - based on her original premium - between March 2019 and February 2020. 
That comes to a total of £5,399.32. I've looked at those figures and, with the exceptions of 
the points I've made above, they seem reasonable.
Admirals also shown us a schedule of payments Mrs K made to it for her policy. Those 
payments add up to £4,640.69. So, if those figures are accurate, that would mean the most 
that Mrs K could owe is (£5,399.32 - £4,640.69) £758.63. That figure doesn't account for the 
removal of two cars from cover from 17 December 2019. But, it does clearly demonstrate 
that Admirals figure of £2,995 has, as far as I can tell, no grounding in fact. It follows that I 
think Admiral did overcharge Mrs K when she asked about cancelling her policy. So I don't 
think its treated her fairly.
In order to put things right I think its fair that Admiral should recalculate what Mrs K owes, 
making the amendments I've referred to above. Further, having listened to many of Mrs Ks 
calls with Admiral, it's clear that it made this an uncomfortable and unnecessarily stressful 
experience for her. To address that I think it should pay £500 compensation.
For completeness, when Mrs K complained to us she also complained about Admirals 
decision to charge her an additional premium in the first place and also about the scale of 
the increase in premiums. These were points our investigator addressed when she assessed 
Mrs Ks complaint. And, as Mrs K hasn't raised any objections to our investigator's view on 
those points, I've chosen not to add my own analysis of those issues here as they dont 
really impact on what I see as the heart of the issue and whats needed to remedy it.
Mrs K accepted my provisional decision; Admiral didn't make any further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs K nor Admiral raised any challenge or objected to my provisional decision I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings.    My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
recalculate the figure its charged Mrs K and Mr S for their motor insurance cover 
between March 2019 and March 2020. From the balance it had previously 
calculated of £5,339.32 it should take into account the £4,640.69 of payments 
made by Mrs K and make the following amendments:
oremove any charge for cover from 17 December 2019 for the car Mrs K 
sold and Admiral had previously removed from cover from 
31 December 2019;
oremove any charge for cover from 17 December 2019 for the car Mrs K 
declared as SORN, and for which a claim hadn't been made against her 
policy, which Admiral had previously removed from cover from 
31 December 2019.
Pay Mrs K and Mr S £500 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman