DRN-2941805
The complaint
 Mr A complains about his insurer, HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI). His complaint relates to 
the rejection of a claim under his home insurance for damage to his property in a storm. 
HDI use agents to administer the policy. Reference to HDI includes these agents.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr A contacted HDI about some roof tiles at his property that had become 
dislodged during bad weather, and consequent ingress of water into the property. Following 
Mr Hs reporting of the incident HDI sent a loss adjuster (C) to inspect the damage in 
September 2020. At the same time, Mr A engaged a roofing specialist (M) to also inspect 
the damage.
Cs report concluded that the ingress of water was due to a gradual operating maintenance 
issue and not a one-off event of storm. C noted that this was a general exclusion under Mr 
As policy. C also noted that water ingress was a general exclusion under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. Together with their conclusion that there werent storm 
conditions, C said that internal damage to the property also wouldnt be covered. HDI 
therefore declined Mr As claim. 
Unhappy at the rejection of his claim, Mr A complained to HDI in October 2020. HDI rejected 
the complaint in December 2020, upholding the original decision to decline his claim. HDI re-
confirmed their view that there werent storm conditions in the area in the days leading up to, 
and including, the date of the incident. HDI also stated that they believed the roof tiles were 
gradually deteriorating over time as a result of general maintenance related wear and tear, 
and that these were simply highlighted by the adverse weather conditions. They also noted 
that the accidental damage section of the policy excluded damage caused by water coming 
into the property (irrespective of how it may have occurred).
Unhappy at his complaint being rejected and his claim being declined, Mr A complained to 
this service in December 2020. He maintained that he had provided HDI with photographs of 
the damage caused in the incident, also that C didnt physically inspect the damage. He also 
maintained that M provided a comprehensive damage report, and the part of the property 
damaged was less than a year old and therefore he didnt think there would be maintenance 
issues given its age. Mr A stated that the decline of his claim meant he lost out financially, 
through the cost of repairing the damage, including Ms call out fee to inspect the damage.
 
Our investigator considered the circumstances and upheld the complaint. He concluded 
there were storm conditions at the time of the damage, and that the damage caused was 
consistent with that to be expected in a storm. The investigator was also persuaded by the 
conclusions of M that the damage was caused by storm conditions. Based on these 
conclusions, the investigator thought that HDI should settle Mr As claim, on the value of the 
invoices for the repair work provided to HDI by Mr A. The investigator also thought that HDI 
should apply the excess due under the terms of the policy and pay interest on the value of 
the invoices paid by Mr A from the date that he incurred the costs. The investigator also said 
that HDI should pay Mr A £250 for trouble and upset.
HDI disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Specifically, HDI disagreed that there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident. HDI also restated their view that the bad weather had simply highlighted 
maintenance defects already present in the roof at the time of the incident. They further 
disputed that M had concluded that the damage was caused by storm conditions.
In my findings I agreed with the investigators conclusions that storm conditions were present 
at the date of the incident, and that the damage was consistent with that we would expect 
from a storm. I disagreed with HDIs view that the damage was the result of pre-existing 
maintenance issues and I concluded that HDI hadnt acted fairly in declining Mr As claim. I 
concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Mr A to be reimbursed for the costs of the 
inspection to assess the damage and the subsequent repair work (including the VAT 
element). I also agreed with the investigators view that HDI should apply the excess due 
under the terms of Mr As policy. In addition, as Mr A had incurred the cost of the invoices, I 
thought that interest should be paid from the date Mr A settled the invoices through to when 
HDI settle his claim.
On the question of trouble and upset, I took into account my conclusion that Mr A should be 
reimbursed for the costs of the inspection and subsequent repair work, together with interest 
on the sums paid. I concluded that was sufficient in the circumstances of this case. So I 
wasnt minded to require HDI to make any further payments.
Because I disagreed with the investigators view on trouble and upset, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether HDI has acted fairly towards Mr A.
In considering HDIs disagreement with the investigators view, and the circumstances of Mr 
As complaint, Ive looked at the three key issues we consider in complaints involving 
damage caused by storms:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Ive looked at all the information and evidence about the weather 
conditions on and around the date of the incident. Ive also looked at the weather data for the 
date of the incident from the source that this service uses. I recognise that weather 
conditions can vary from location to location, sometimes where those locations are relatively 
near to each other. Using the information for the nearest weather station to Mr As property it 
shows a peak wind gust on the date of the incident at the upper end of the category of gale 
on the Beaufort Scale.
 
HDI stated that while the date of the incident falls within the period of Storms Ellen and 
Francis, they dont believe that this means that the damage to Mr As property should be 
attributed to either storm. Ive considered this carefully. Ive noted that the date of the 
incident (25 August) was the date that Storm Francis impacted the UK. Ive also noted that 
the storm initially impacted the western part of the UK, before moving across the UK from that direction. Ive also looked at local weather and media reports for the area of Mr As 
property at the time of the storm, and they do indicate localised damage and disruption 
caused by Storm Francis.
Taking these factors into consideration, bearing in mind the variability of impact in different 
localities. Im persuaded that on balance there were adverse weather conditions that would 
constitute storm conditions on the date of the incident. So I dont agree with HDIs view.
Turning to the second question, whether the damage caused is consistent with that caused 
by storm conditions, Ive looked at the evidence from Mr A, including photographs of the 
damaged roof. Ive also looked at the reports from the two experts, C and M. Its clear that 
there was a dislodged tile and other damage, and I think that the relatively light nature of this 
damage is consistent with damage we would expect to see from the weather conditions that 
Ive concluded were present at the date of the incident.
 
Ive noted HDIs view that the damage highlighted existing maintenance issues, rather than 
causing the damage. To my mind thats part of the third question (were the storm conditions 
the main or dominant cause of the damage). Its not an indication that the damage was 
inconsistent with that to be expected from storm conditions.
On the third question, Ive noted that the invoice from M for the work carried out states:
The client has asked us to note our professional opinion as to the cause of the 
damage which is clearly storm damage.
Ive also noted that the invoice goes on to state that:
The client has supplied the building inspectors sign off of the roof from June of last 
year which clearly supports our diagnosis, as the likelihood (sic) of any roof 
maintenance issues coming to light in the short period of time extremely unlikely as 
they would have been picked up on his final inspection.
In their response to the investigators view, HDI stated that they disputed that M had 
concluded that the damage was caused by storm conditions. Looking at the first of the two 
quotes above, it seems to me that M concluded that the damage was clearly storm damage. 
So, I dont agree with HDIs view.
Ive also noted the second quote above, that the relatively new construction of the roof would 
have meant it unlikely that any maintenance issues would come to light in the year or so 
since it was built. Also, any issues [with the roofs construction] would have been picked up 
by the building inspectors looking at the work and signing it off. Ive also seen a copy of the 
inspection report (dated 2019). I find both points persuasive and support the conclusion that 
the damage wasnt a result of pre-existing maintenance issues.
I recognise that access to Mr As property at the time of the incident was restricted by a 
person self-isolating in accordance with Covid restrictions. So the evidence available was 
limited to external inspection and photographs taken at the time. Both C and M had access 
to that information and formed their conclusions from it. Ive also considered that M would 
have had the benefit of carrying out the repair work and therefore being able to physically 
inspect the area of damage, whereas C did not.
Taking these points together, Ive concluded that the damage is, on the balance of 
probabilities, most likely to have been caused by the storm conditions that Ive concluded 
were present. On this basis, Ive concluded that HDI didnt act fairly in declining Mr As claim.
 The invoices provided from M set out the inspection of the roof to assess the damage and 
the repair work required and (separately) the repair work carried out. The latter also 
distinguishes the repairs carried out as a result of what M considered to be damage from the 
storm (wind damage) and preventative work (gutter clearances). The latter, as maintenance, 
wouldnt fall to be covered by Mr As policy. I think its fair and reasonable for Mr A to be 
reimbursed for the costs of the inspection to assess the damage and the subsequent repair 
work (including the VAT element).
Our investigator also said that HDI should apply the excess due under the terms of Mr As 
policy. I agree that this is fair and reasonable.
Regarding interest, as Mr A has incurred the cost of the invoices, then I think its right that 
interest on the value of those invoices (less the excess) should be paid from the date Mr A 
settled the invoices through to when HDI settle his claim.
On the question of trouble and upset, Ive considered the circumstances of Mr As complaint, 
including the impact of having his claim rejected. Ive also taken account my conclusion that 
he should be reimbursed for the costs of the inspection and subsequent repair work, 
together with interest on the sums paid by Mr A. Ive thought about these factors and I think 
this is sufficient in the circumstances of this case. So Im not going to require HDI to make 
any further payments.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr As complaint. I 
intend to require HDI Global Specialty SE to:
oSettle the costs of the repair work incurred by Mr A based on the invoices for 
inspection and assessment of damage, and for repair work (excluding 
maintenance work). The relevant policy excess should be applied to these 
costs.
oPay simple interest of 8% on the value of the invoices (less the relevant policy 
excess) from the date they were paid by Mr A to the date HDI settles his 
claim.
Mr A responded to say that he had no comments.
HDI responded to say that they were still not convinced that a storm took place at the time of 
the incident, that the damage was not consistent with the type of structural damage suffered 
during storm conditions, and that the winds merely highlighted defects in the roof. And that 
while wind speeds at the time were gale force, they werent storm force. HDI also said that 
while Storm Francis may have had storm force winds at one time, weather reports showed 
that the winds clearly had lessened by the time it was over Mr As property. So, the weather 
conditions were not a storm, but the remnants of a storm. HDI also disagreed that media 
reports of localised damage and disruption [alone] demonstrated the presence of a storm.
HDI also referred to comments from C about the condition of the roof and that some tiles 
were held in place by mortar, that deteriorates over time when exposed to the elements and 
windy conditions. HDI also stated that M were not suitably qualified to comment on what 
constituted a storm  but that C (as a surveyor) were qualified. HDI also noted that while 
they had not seen the inspection report from 2019 (and so could not comment further) Mr As 
property was of a type built at least 23 years ago.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
Ive considered carefully the response from HDI. On their first point, that they didnt consider 
that storm conditions were present, my provisional decision recognised the weather reports 
from the nearest station to Mr As property. It was this, together with the reports of localised 
damage and disruption that led me to conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that there 
were adverse weather conditions that would constitute a storm. It wasnt that the media 
reports alone led to that conclusion. Nor  picking up another point made by HDI  was I 
relying on either the reports from C or M to conclude on the weather conditions at the time of 
the incident. 
I also recognised that Storm Francis initially impacted the UK in the west and moved across 
the UK from that direction. While the initial impact would have been greater in the western 
part of the UK, I dont think it means that there werent storm conditions in other areas, 
including that of Mr As property. So, I havent changed my mind on this point.
On the second point. I looked at the evidence available from both C and M, as well as the 
photographs of the damage. I concluded that the damage was consistent with the weather 
conditions at the time. That is, light damage rather than substantial or catastrophic. I was 
also persuaded by Ms view about the damage being caused by storm and I think that their 
view carried more weight given that they repaired the damage. So, again, I havent changed 
my view on this point.
On the third point, when forming my provisional view, I considered the points made both by 
C and M. I also noted the 2019 inspection report and that the area of roof affected was 
relatively new, so unlikely to have been affected by maintenance issues after such a short 
period. In this context Im not persuaded by HDIs observation that Mr As property is of a 
type that is at least 23 years old  given that the affected area was much newer. Based on 
these factors, I havent changed my view.
Taking all these points into account, then I havent changed my view to uphold Mr As 
complaint.
 
As neither Mr A nor HDI made any comment on my provisional decision not to award any 
additional amount of compensation for trouble and upset, then I havent changed my 
conclusion on that aspect.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. My final decision is that I require 
HDI Global Specialty SE to:
oSettle the costs of the repair work incurred by Mr A based on the invoices for 
inspection and assessment of damage, and for repair work (excluding 
maintenance work). The relevant policy excess should be applied to these 
costs.
oPay simple interest of 8% on the value of the invoices (less the relevant policy 
excess) from the date they were paid by Mr A to the date HDI settles his 
claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman