DRN-1943174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) allowed a payment to 
be debited from an expired debit card on their account.
What happened
Mr M held a health insurance policy with Company A which was due to renew on 1 January 
2020. On 30 December 2019, Mr M called Company A to say he didnt want to renew the 
policy. And he says he was told payment may have already been requested. But as the debit 
card hed previously paid with had expired several months before, it wouldnt go through.
In January 2020 Mr M saw the payment of £4,189 had been made to Company A. Later that 
day Mr and Mrs M spoke to Halifax staff in branch and on the phone. Halifax said the 
payment had been authorised on the same day the policy had been cancelled, and that it 
had been taken under a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). It said this wouldve been set 
up by Company A when the policy had begun.
Mr and Mrs M complained, saying they were unhappy a payment had been allowed to be 
made using an expired card, and they felt this had been a data breach. They say they didnt 
have a CPA in place with Company A and Halifax shouldve refused the payment request 
and got in touch with them about it. 
Mr and Mrs M asked Halifax to apologise for what had happened and to acknowledge its 
failings, as well as to provide compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
suffered. And they highlighted it took a number of weeks for Company A to refund the 
payment.
Halifax reiterated that there was a CPA in place between Mr and Mrs M and Company A. So 
the payment was still honoured even though the card for the account had expired as 
authorisation for the payment had been made when the card was active. Halifax said overall 
it hadnt made any errors, so it didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt find Halifax had made any mistakes. He 
also felt it was reasonable for Halifax to decline to refund the payment amount itself. So he 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint. They said that they 
hadnt agreed to a CPA being set up with Company A and that theyd given it enough notice 
for the payment not to be taken. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. When considering this complaint, I have considered the actions of Halifax 
and how it has handled this payment. And I would highlight any complaint Mr and Mrs M 
have about Company A arranging a CPA without their knowledge would sit with Company A. 
Our investigator has already explained in detail to Mr and Mrs M what a CPA is and how it 
differs from other forms of payment, so I wont repeat this. Im satisfied that a CPA has been 
put in place between Company A and Mr and Mrs M and thats how the payment was able to 
debit the account.
This authorised payment was taken from an expired card on Mr and Mrs Ms account. And 
as the payment had been authorised when the associated card was active, this enabled 
Company A to debit the account and it was honoured by Halifax. 
The payment was also made on the expired card details, meaning that Halifax hadnt passed 
on any new information to Company A, which I understand was a concern to Mr and Mrs M. 
Even though the card had expired, any CPA in place can still be debited via expired card 
details, and this is done through the card provider, not Halifax.
Ive listened to a call involving Mr M when he was in branch querying the payment with one 
of Halifaxs advisors in its card disputes team. Mr M explains whats happened, and that 
when he looked at his papers with Company A, he saw that the policy would automatically 
renew, and he called them to cancel it. 
The advisor then explained what a CPA is and how its set up. She confirmed there was no 
data breach and that if Mr M didnt receive the refund from Company A, then Halifax could 
take further steps and raise a dispute.
While Mr and Mrs M feel Halifax shouldve taken steps to confirm the payment with them, I 
dont agree. I say this as it debited the payment as a CPA, which indicates that there was an 
established relationship between Mr and Mrs M and Company A. And Mr M has confirmed 
the policy would automatically renew if he didnt cancel it. If Mr and Mrs M dispute this 
arrangement was in place, theyd have to take this up with Company A.
I understand the payment was refunded around a month after it was taken. Had the payment 
not been refunded by Company A, I wouldve expected Halifax to have taken further steps  
and based on its conversation with Mr M it seems it wouldve.
However I dont consider that the payment in question was unauthorised. Mr M chose to 
cancel the policy relating to the CPA a day before it automatically renewed, when Company 
A had already requested payment. And with no contact with Halifax regarding the payment 
prior to it leaving the account, I cant see it couldve done anything further.
Overall Im satisfied Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably when handling this payment and 
in its following interactions with Mr and Mrs M. So Im not upholding this complaint or 
directing Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 Jack Baldry
Ombudsman