DRN-3427686
The complaint
Mr G complains about a recommendation from Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) in 2000 to take 
out a Maximum Investment Plan (MIP). He is represented by a claims management 
company (CMC). 
It says that Mr G was only looking to save, and he didnt want or need the life cover included 
in the plan. The CMC also complains Mr G's attitude to risk wasnt recorded and the plan 
was too risky for him.
The CMC says the charges under the plan made it a pointless way of saving because, it 
says, the plan had to achieve an average annual growth rate of around 5% just to break 
even.
What happened
Mr G and his wife met with an adviser in 2000. He was recommended a Maximum 
Investment Plan (MIP) with a monthly contribution of £250 and a ten-year term, which he 
took out. 
Mr G made monthly contributions into his MIP until 2008 when he surrendered it. 
In 2020 a CMC acting on Mr Gs behalf made a complaint to Zurich. It said the plan was 
unsuitable as Mr G was not looking for life cover. It also said that no record had been made 
of Mr Gs attitude to risk and the plan charges made it a pointless way of saving. The CMC 
said other cases decided by this service supported its representations about the impact of 
the charges. 
Zurich didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said Mr Gs MIP provided life cover of £22,500, 
which was the minimum requirement to keep the plan qualifying for tax advantages. Zurich 
said the cost of life cover was minimal at less than one percent of the monthly contribution 
and it said Mr G was made fully aware of the inclusion of life cover in the documentation he 
received.
Zurich also said the value of the plan was not guaranteed and was dependent on investment 
growth. It said this was explained in the documentation provided to Mr G at the time of 
advice. Zurich pointed out the recommendation letter stated that Mr G was comfortable that 
his plan would be invested in real assets such as equities and property. It also explained that 
the value of the plan was determined by those investments and Zurich said Mr G understood 
the value could go down, as well as up. 
Zurich said the adviser explained that the plan wouldnt be suitable if the saving term was 
less than ten years and Mr G confirmed he was happy to maintain payments for the whole 
term. In addition, it said Mr G was provided with documentation which explained the nature 
of the plan and showed the potential returns and charges. 
Zurich said it was satisfied the MIP was suitable for Mr Gs needs and he understood the 
investment he was making.
The CMC disagreed with Zurichs conclusions and referred Mr Gs complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said life 
cover was included to make the plan a qualifying policy which meant the amount paid at 
maturity would be free of any further tax for the plan holder. 
The investigator considered the life cover wouldve had a minimal impact on the potential for 
growth on the savings because it was a small proportion of the monthly payment. He pointed 
out the amount paid in life cover over the term was less than 0.5 percent of the total 
contribution.
The investigator didnt comment on the impact of the charges as he noted that the complaint 
was about suitability rather than performance. 
The investigator acknowledged that Mr Gs attitude to risk wasnt recorded during the sale. 
He considered Mr Gs circumstances at the time and how the investment was made up.
He noted that Mr G and his wife had an investment property and held a savings account and 
two savings plans. The investigator took into account that the plan was invested with about 
78 percent in equities and the rest being made up of bonds, gilts, property, and cash.
The investigator considered that Mr G was a fairly experienced investor who was willing to 
take a medium level of risk in order to grow his capital. So, he didnt think the MIP was 
unsuitable for Mr G.
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It pointed to the projected returns on 
the illustration and the reduction in yield. It said the charges impacted the plan to such a 
degree that it was not a worthwhile savings proposition which it said was demonstrated by 
the poor returns. It said by comparison Bank of England base rate at the time of the advice 
was six percent. 
The CMC said Zurich hadnt established Mr Gs attitude to risk and it hadnt explained the 
risks inherent within the plan and that his plan was heavily invested in equities. It said Mr Gs 
experience in relation to another savings plan wasnt relevant as it had been subject to a 
mis-selling complaint for which Mr G had been compensated. The CMC also said it didnt 
consider having an investment property would have made Mr G aware of how this plan 
worked.   
The CMC reiterated that Mr G was not interested in life cover and said the fact find 
supported this. So, it said he shouldnt have been sold a plan that included life cover.  It 
didnt  agree that having a qualifying plan for tax reasons was sufficient justification as it 
reiterated its view that the charges didnt make the plan worthwhile.
The CMC said the plan posed too much risk for Mr G and suggested a unit trust ISA would 
have been a better option as it had lower charges, greater flexibility and was more tax 
efficient. It said this option should have been  offered and explained to Mr G.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Gs complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision where I concluded that his complaint should be upheld. I 
didnt think that Mr G was a fairly experienced investor. I took into account the amount of 
money he was investing, the commitment to invest that sum over a ten-year period and the 
amount of risk posed by the fund the plan was invested in, which was largely made up of 
equities, together with the impact of the charges. 
I didnt think Mr G understood the level of risk posed by the plan. Overall, I concluded that 
the MIP recommended to Mr G was unsuitable taking into account his circumstances and 
objectives. I considered on balance that it posed more risk than he was willing to take. 
Both parties were then given an opportunity to respond with any representations they might 
wish to make. 
The CMC representing Mr G accepted my provisional decision and made no further 
representations.
Zurich didnt agree with my provisional conclusions and in summary it said:
Mr Gs plan had made a positive return, so it said Mr G appeared to be complaining 
about the performance of the plan.I had said in my provisional decision that Mr G had capacity to invest and was aware 
of the life cover, along with the impact that could have on the potential return, and 
therefore those aspects didnt make the plan inappropriate. But Zurich was confused, 
based on what I had said, as to why I considered the plan to be unsuitable.
It said I had referred to Mr Gs attitude to risk, but it was unsure whether I considered 
there was an issue with the Managed Fund the plan was invested in.   
It said it wanted to clarify that the MIP had several funds which an investor could use. 
And it said if I felt that the MIP itself posed too much risk could I clarify why, so it 
could understand my rationale.
It also said if my concern was in relation to the Managed Fund, within the MIP, could 
I confirm this to Zurich so that it could respond further.  
It noted my reference to the impact of charges and said that at the relevant time the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA) set out rules for how illustrations should be 
produced. It said that in April 2000 firms had to provide customers illustrations using 
the rates of 4%,6% and 8%. 
It said it complied with the rules around illustrations at the time and Mr G was 
informed that the charges could bring down the return to 4.1%, if 6% was achieved. 
It said I had concluded that a mid-rate of 6 % was reasonable based on the Bank of 
England rate also being 6%. And it said I had confirmed that I didnt agree with the 
assertion about the growth rate being reduced to 4.1%. But Zurich said it wasnt clear 
why I felt the impact of the charges would affect the risk posed by the MIP.  
Zurich pointed out that Bank of England base rate was 6% at the time of advice but 
as Mr G was a basic rate tax payer any deposit based investment would 
automatically have had 22% tax deducted, so the net rate, if a 6% investment could 
have been obtained, would have been 4.8%.
It said it felt that I had provided several reasons why the plan was not unsuitable, and 
it didnt understand the specific reasons why I considered the plan and or the fund 
posed too much risk. Zurich said it would be grateful for clarification so it could 
assess those reasons and provide a response.  
We wrote back to Zurich and indicated that if it had any further representations in respect of 
the suitability of the MIP plan for Mr G and the risk it posed, including the fund that it was 
invested in, or any other representations in response to the provisional decision then it had a 
further 14 days to provide those.
Zurich acknowledged our response and provided no further representations. It said it was 
waiting for further clarification. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an informal dispute resolution service which is an alternative to the courts. We have a 
two-stage process with an initial view being issued by an investigator. If either of the parties 
doesnt agree with that view, they can ask for an ombudsman to review the complaint, as 
has happened in this case. 
As I didnt agree with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision setting out my 
conclusions, in order to allow the parties an opportunity to respond with any representations 
they might have. This isnt designed to be a long, complicated process where a party then 
seeks further clarification before they finalise their representations. Each party should make 
representations based on the provisional conclusions provided to them. If it is unsure whether a point is relevant or not, it is up to that party whether it wishes to address it in its 
response. But, if it doesnt do so, it runs the risk of its representations on that particular issue 
not being taken into account. 
I also have to consider whether it would be fair to both parties to provide further clarification 
to Zurich. I think it is likely to be unfair to the parties for me to engage in a dialogue with only 
one side, where I give further explanation of the rationale for my provisional findings, and 
enable that party to expand, or adjust, its representations accordingly. Particularly, as I have 
already given that party two separate opportunities to provide its representations in 
response. The provisional decision sets out my conclusions and reasoning and that is what 
each party should respond to.    
Having carefully considered the response from Zurich I think that it is, in effect, largely a 
statement of disagreement with my conclusions and reasoning rather than Zurich being 
unable to understand the decision itself. I still remain of the view that the complaint should 
be upheld for the reasons I have already outlined in my provisional decision, which I will 
reproduce below, and forms part of my final decision.    
However, I think I should firstly address some of the specific points raised by Zurich. I dont 
think that a complaint about an investment that has made a positive return is necessarily a 
complaint about performance, although of course it could be. 
If a consumer doesnt understand the level of risk an investment poses, as I have concluded 
was the case with Mr G, then they would not necessarily understand, when they received the 
proceeds of their investment,  that the advice they were given was unsuitable because the 
investment posed too much risk for them. In fact, where they havent made a loss, it is less 
likely that they would understand that there was cause for concern, particularly if they arent 
an experienced investor. And you will note that, further on in this decision, I have concluded 
that Mr G wasnt a fairly experienced investor. 
The CMC representing Mr G made a number of points of complaint, some of which I didnt 
agree with. For instance, it said that the inclusion of life cover made the plan unsuitable and 
the impact of charges made it a pointless way of saving. 
However, just because I dont agree with all the points put forward on Mr Gs behalf doesnt 
mean that I consider Zurichs recommendation to be suitable for Mr G. I also think some of 
the points Ive made in my provisional decision have been slightly taken out of context by 
Zurich. 
I concluded that the impact of costs didnt make this a pointless way of saving and I noted 
that Mr G had made a positive return on the money he invested, but that doesnt mean that I 
thought the impact of costs had no relevance to my decision. It does have some relevance 
because there is the issue of the risk Mr G was taking with this money, which I consider was 
too much risk for him, and it was even less worthwhile for him to take that risk over a long 
period, when any return he might receive would be reduced by costs.
I also didnt conclude that Mr G was aware of the impact the cost of life cover could have on 
the plans potential return. However, it is fair to say I didnt think the inclusion of life cover  
made the plan unsuitable for Mr G.   
I should also clarify that I didnt conclude that a mid-rate of 6 % was reasonable based on 
the Bank of England rate also being 6%. I thought it was reasonable to look at the medium 
rate, out of the three rates, with regards to what might reasonably be achieved. And the 
medium rate was 6%. 
Zurich has said it us unsure whether I felt that the Managed Fund was too risky for Mr G. I 
think it is clear from my provisional decision that I thought that Fund posed too much risk for 
Mr G.  I have specifically talked about the way the fund was made up and said it was largely 
made up of equities including international equities. I have also said I take into account that Mr G was committing to invest £3,000 a year for a term of ten years 
where his annual income was £26,000 and he was already paying into another savings plan. 
He also had a young family who were dependent on Mr G and his wife. 
So, while I consider Mr G did have disposable income and that he wanted to save, Im not 
persuaded on balance that he was willing to take the level of risk posed by the MIP plan, 
which was invested primarily in equities, with that sum of money.   
I have also said that I didnt think Mr G understood the risk the Managed Fund posed. So, to 
be clear, I reiterate that I dont think Mr G was willing to take the level of risk posed by the 
MIP plan invested in the Managed Fund with that amount of money and with that length of 
commitment. 
I note Zurich has said that it had other funds available, but Mr G was recommended this plan 
which was invested in the Managed Fund. The suitability letter indicates the adviser 
recommended the MIP and refers to the types of assets it will be invested in. So, I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr G ended up with the Managed Fund because of the advice he 
received from Zurich. While there may have been lower risk funds available Mr G would still 
have been tying up a significant proportion of his income with that fund for a long period and 
wouldve had to bear the impact of charges on any return he might receive from that low risk 
fund. I note, generally, it is harder to achieve a high rate of return with a low risk fund, so the 
impact of charges is also likely to have been more significant.
The benchmark I have indicated should be used for comparison includes the average rate 
for fixed rate bonds for half of the comparison. While I can see Zurichs point about tax being 
paid on interest from deposit-based products, at least the return on those products is fixed, 
and the period of commitment is lower than ten years. Usually, at the end of that bond term 
the money would be invested in another fixed rate bond.  Whereas with a low risk fund 
provided by Zurich at the relevant time there would be a long commitment with no certainty 
of return but there would still be the impact of costs on that unguaranteed return.
So, having carefully considered the points made by Zurich, I still consider the comparison set 
out in my provisional decision to be a fair and reasonable way to calculate the compensation 
in Mr Gs case. 
The following represents an extract from my provisional decision, and forms part of this final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Mr G and his wife met with an adviser in 2000. Their circumstances were recorded in a fact 
find document. Mr G was married with two young children, self-employed and he and his 
wife jointly owned their residential property. It was recorded that Mr G also owned a retail 
property and Mr Gs wife owned a rental property.
Mr G held a regular savings plan which was yet to mature and had an estimated value, at 
that time, of about £18,000. The level of risk posed by that investment is not clear from the 
fact find. 
The fact find also records that Mr Gs wife held a MIP taken out in 1998 for the benefit of 
their eldest child, with a value at that time, of around £2,000. Mr G and his wife also had 
some joint savings. 
It was recorded that Mr Gs income was £26,000 and that he was a basic rate taxpayer.
The fact find also noted Mr Gs financial priorities and regular saving was recorded as a 
priority he was interested in at that time rather than in the future. 
Zurich recommended a MIP plan to Mr G with a monthly contribution of £250 over a term of 
ten years, invested in the Life Managed Fund.Mr G was self-employed with disposable income remaining after their liabilities were paid, 
and I consider he wanted to save regularly for capital growth over the medium to long term. 
So, I dont think a savings plan was unsuitable for him in principle. However, he was advised 
by Zurich to commit £250 a month over ten years. That wasnt an insignificant proportion of 
his income to invest and put at risk.
The MIP was invested in the Life Managed Fund. Zurich has provided a fund fact sheet from 
2000. The fund objective for the Life Managed Fund is set out in that fact sheet which states:
The Life Managed Fund aims to provide excellent prospects for long-term growth while 
limiting the risks associated with pure equity funds. It accordingly offers a balanced 
investment portfolio, spread across a wide range, including shares, properties, fixed-interest 
securities and cash, both in the UK and globally. 
The fact sheet shows the fund was largely invested in equities (about 78 percent) with some 
international equities. The rest of the fund was made up of bonds, gilts, property and cash. I 
note international equities can pose additional risk because changes in foreign exchange 
rates can have a negative effect on the investment.
Attitude to risk
The CMC representing Mr G points out that his attitude to risk was not recorded by Zurich. It 
doesnt automatically follow that because it wasnt recorded the recommendation was 
unsuitable. However, I have to consider Mr Gs recorded circumstances and objectives at 
the time in order to determine what risk he was willing and able to take.  
Zurich says that the Managed Fund was suitable for low risk investors who were anticipating 
maintaining an investment over the medium to long term. It points out the intended term was 
ten years and says, in 2000, investing over such a term, it would generally have been 
considered that an investment in equities would perform better than deposit based 
alternatives.
I dont disagree that the Managed Fund could be suitable for a relatively inexperienced 
investor investing some of their disposal income over the longer term. However, I have to 
consider Mr Gs particular circumstances and the amount that was being invested.  
I note Mr G had already taken out a savings plan, but I dont agree that he was a fairly 
experienced investor. That plan hadnt yet matured so I dont think having it would 
necessarily have made him aware of the nature of the risk posed by this type of product. I 
also note that his representative has said that plan was the subject of a successful 
complaint. Similarly, the savings plan held by his wife had only been taken out a few years 
before so again, I dont think it would necessarily have made Mr G aware of the nature and 
level of the risk posed by this recommendation. 
Mr G and his wife did own some property in addition to their own residential property, but it 
appears to have been a fairly limited property portfolio and I dont consider that would have 
meant Mr G was an experienced investor. 
I also note that the monthly premium of his existing savings plan was significantly lower than 
the one recommended by Zurich.  
The recommendations letter noted that:
You are comfortable that the contributions to your plan will be invested in real assets such 
as equities and property on your behalf. That means the value of the plan is determined by 
the value of these assets and can go down as well as up in value. You confirmed that you 
understand this. You told me that you were happy to maintain contributions to the plan for 10 
years.  The plan is not suitable for saving over a shorter period.
While I think Mr G would have understood from that description that the plan posed some 
risk, I am not persuaded that he would have understood the level of risk posed.      I take into account that Mr G was committing to invest £3,000 a year for a term of ten years 
where his annual income was £26,000 and he was already paying into another savings plan. 
He also had a young family who were dependent on Mr G and his wife. 
So, while I consider Mr G did have disposal income and that he wanted to save, Im not 
persuaded on balance that he was willing to take the level of risk posed by the MIP plan, 
which was invested primarily in equities, with that sum of money.   
Overall, I consider, given Mr Gs circumstances at the time, that he was able to take a low 
level of risk with £250 per month over that term. And I consider he was prepared to take that 
level of risk in order to try to achieve his objective of saving and achieving a return on his 
capital.       
Inclusion of life cover
I agree with the CMC that there doesnt appear to have been any clear requirement from   
Mr G for further life cover as he already had £100,000 of life assurance in place. The fact 
find indicated protection was a need to be considered in the future. Although, as Mr G had a 
partner and young children and was the higher wage earner, some additional life assurance 
may well have been of some benefit. 
However, I take into account that this type of plan required life cover to be included to make 
it qualifying for tax purposes.  I think the tax advantage was a potential benefit that would 
have been attractive to Mr G. And I note only the minimum level of life cover was included 
and the cost of this, as a proportion of his monthly contribution, was low. So, in any event, I 
agree with the investigator that it was unlikely to have had a significant impact on the return. 
I am not persuaded therefore that the inclusion of life cover made the plan unsuitable for    
Mr G. 
Impact of charges
The CMC acting on behalf of Mr G has said this plan was a pointless way of saving because 
of the impact of charges. It has pointed out that Bank of England base rate at that time was 
six percent. 
The illustration produced at the time showed the potential returns the plan might make.  
Although, of course, these rates of return werent guaranteed. The medium growth rate used 
was six percent and I think it is reasonable to look at the medium rate with regards to what 
might reasonably be achieved. 
I can see the illustration showed that the impact of costs, leaving out the cost of life cover 
and sickness benefits, was to reduce this assumed investment growth rate down to 4.1 
percent a year. So, I dont agree that the charges meant this was a pointless way of saving. 
While base rate may well have been higher than this projected return, this was a ten-year 
plan and the projected rate was over that whole period and base rate can, and does change. 
I also note that when Mr G surrendered his plan he received about £5,600 more than he 
invested, so clearly he was able to make a return on his contributions.  
Having said that, I consider the charges did have an impact on the return and that impact 
would affect the weighing up of risk versus benefit. Because Mr G was recommended a plan 
that posed more than a low level of risk and any benefit would be affected by the impact of 
charges. Therefore, the potential benefit was reduced. So, whilst I dont think the impact of 
charges, of itself, made the investment unsuitable for Mr G, I consider it was part of the 
overall consideration of whether the plan was suitable for Mr G.
Summary 
Overall, I consider the MIP recommended to Mr G was unsuitable taking into account his 
circumstances and objectives. I consider on balance that it posed more risk than he was 
willing to take. Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr G 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given    
Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Zurich do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
Maximum 
Investment 
PlanNo longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr G paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Zurich totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It does not mean that Mr G 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman