DRN-2609041
The complaint
Ms W complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly declined her legal expenses 
insurance claim on the basis that it has no reasonable prospects of success.
UKI use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance on their behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the act or omissions 
of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The policy terms and conditions set out that UKI will cover legal expenses claims submitted 
by the insured so long as the claim has reasonable prospects of success. The policy 
defines reasonable prospects as:
For civil cases, the prospects that the Insured Person will recover losses or 
damagesmust be at least 51%. DAS or a Preferred Law Firm or Tax consultancy 
on DAS behalf will assess whether there are Reasonable Prospects.
In this instance, UKI appointed one of their panel firms (whom I will refer to as Firm D). 
Firm D assessed the claim but concluded that the likelihood of making a successful recovery 
of any funds from Ms Ws previous tenants was calculated at only 35% because of their 
apparent impecuniosity. As a result, UKI declined the claim on the basis that it did not have 
reasonable prospects of success.
I appreciate that Ms W doesnt agree with Firm Ds legal assessment of her claim. But as it 
stands, I havent seen that she has submitted a more favourable assessment, other than her 
own opinion, to show that her claim does have sufficient prospects of success. 
Our service is not able to consider the actions of solicitors or the quality of legal advice they 
provide. And generally, we consider it is fair for an insurer to rely on the advice of 
appropriately qualified legal professionals, unless there is anything to suggest that the legal 
advice was patently wrong, such that it was unreasonable for the insurer to rely on it. 
However, there is nothing in these circumstances to suggest that the legal advice was 
patently wrong, so theres currently no basis in which to conclude that UKI have acted 
unreasonably by relying on it to decline the claim. I appreciate Ms W has a different opinion, 
but her own views on this matter cannot reasonably outweigh the assessment of qualified 
solicitors; even where a policyholder is herself legally qualified, she cannot act as an 
independent expert in her own cause. 
So, given that Firm D concluded that Ms Ws claim does not enjoy reasonable prospects  
and given that she has not submitted any alternative legal opinion to the contrary  Im 
satisfied that UKI have fairly declined her claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. I 
will therefore not be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman