DRN-2118824
The complaint
Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt find that the policy had been mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he considered he had to take the PPI to get the credit card he wanted. Ive 
noted everything Mr H has said. 
But Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process 
where PPI wouldve been offered to Mr H. This shows that he wouldve had to 
choose whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. 
From what Ive seen, there was nothing else in the application process to suggest 
that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the credit card.
Canada Squares record of the application data shows that Mr H selected the PPI. So 
I think Canada Square made him aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. So it didnt have to ask about any other means Mr H had to cover his 
repayments. 
But even if Canada Square had recommended the PPI to Mr H, it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr 
H has told me he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work, so he 
doesnt consider he needed the cover. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs employer benefits and would do 
so for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr H could use his employer 
benefits and savings to pay for other expenses.
 
So overall, I think Mr H wouldve had some use for the policy. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. The PPI was also 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman