DRN-1974689
 
The complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr M between July 2018 
and February 2019. The amounts borrowed were between £175 and £250. Loans 1 and 2 
were due to be repaid over six instalments and loan 3 was due to be repaid over three 
instalments. At the time of writing this decision, Mr Ms third loan remains outstanding. 
Mr Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators, and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information MYJAR had asked Mr M to 
provide that should have prompted MYJAR to do more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt 
say MYJAR was wrong to have given the loans to Mr M.  
Mr M disagreed. He said he was borrowing from several other short-term lenders at the time 
and was struggling financially. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr M says MYJARs checks didnt go far enough and it ought to have realised he couldnt 
afford the loans. 
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr M about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £2,000. MYJAR also checked Mr Ms normal 
monthly living costs. Mr M declared these to be between £786 and £934 a month. MYJAR 
says it also searched Mr Ms credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There 
werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded 
on it at the time the loans were taken out. So, there wasnt anything in the credit report which 
would have made MYJAR carry out further checks. 
Mr M had borrowed three loans over seven months, so he was very early on in his lending 
relationship with MYJAR. Even though he had to make monthly repayments, the highest 
repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
MYJAR. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided at the time which would 
have given MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have relied 
on what Mr M gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr M declared to MYJAR at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about      
Mr M, I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information Mr M gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that MYJAR has done something wrong in lending Mr M these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr M, and Im sorry to hear about his 
financial circumstances. Ive thought carefully about everything hes told us, however these 
points dont change my decision for the reasons explained above. But I hope my explanation 
will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman