DRN-3623277
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited have been pursuing her for a 
debt which she says was fraudulent and was not taken out by her.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a catalogue account that was taken out in 2001 in a name similar 
to Ms Ss.
In 2021, Capquest contacted Ms S about this debt, and she disputed taking it out. Capquest 
asked for proof of her address from 2001, but Ms S didnt still have any. Capquest concluded 
that there was no fraud. Capquest were not able to provide any standard evidence which 
showed that this was Ms Ss account, but continued to pursue her.
Our investigator looked into things independently and asked Capquest for standard evidence 
to show whether this was Ms Ss debt or not, but Capquest didnt provide any. So our 
investigator upheld the complaint, and directed Capquest to cease pursuing Ms S and to pay 
her £250 compensation for the stress theyd put her through.
Capquest didnt agree, though they did say theyd now stop pursuing Ms S as the account 
was probably statue barred. They provided some notes from their fraud investigation. The 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether Capquest were entitled to pursue Ms S for this account or not.
Broadly speaking, the onus was on Capquest to show that they were entitled to do so.
In this situation, Id expect Capquest to either provide substantial evidence that this particular 
person owed this particular debt, or to cease pursuing them. Such evidence could be things 
like a signed credit agreement, records of the checks that were carried out, a notice of 
assignment to show who genuinely owns the account now, and so on. But Capquest havent 
provided any of the key evidence needed here, despite our service chasing them for such 
information repeatedly.
Capquest have provided the records of their fraud investigation, which as far as I can see 
only shows that their investigation was poor. They put the onus almost entirely on Ms S to 
prove this was not her account, which was the wrong approach. And they seem to have 
based much of their conclusions on her inability to provide proof of address from 2001  
even though its unreasonable to require her to have such information from over two 
decades ago, long past the time where it wouldve been expected for her to keep it, and 
even though they dont seem to have had anything substantial to show that this actually was 
her debt.
Further, I understand that Ms S lived with an ex-partner at the time who she says defrauded 
her previously. And its notable that the name on the account was not spelled the same as 
Ms Ss actual name. Even if we put Capquests lack of evidence or investigation aside, this 
does not inspire confidence that this was actually Ms Ss account.
The relevant regulations required that Capquest did not ignore Ms Ss dispute, and that they 
did not continue pursuing her without clear justification and evidence that her dispute was 
not valid. But it looks like Capquest could not reasonably evidence that this was Ms Ss 
account. It follows that they should have put this matter to rest back in 2021, instead of 
dragging it out all the way until now.
As our investigator explained, Ms S was understandably distressed at being chased for a 
debt when, as far as she could see, she was the victim of fraud. Capquest did not treat this 
with the proper sensitivity, not least by placing the onus on Ms S to prove this wasnt her 
debt using decades-old documents she wouldnt still reasonably have. Capquests unfair and 
unreasonable approach, as well as their failure to co-operate with our service, then extended 
this period of stress to about a year. That all needs to be put right.
Putting things right
I direct Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to:
Disassociate this account from Ms S and make sure she is no longer pursued for it, if 
they have not done so already; 
Remove any related entries from Ms Ss credit file, if any remain; and-
Pay Ms S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ss complaint, and direct Capquest Debt 
Recovery Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman