DRN-3757616
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he was given by Sanlam Life and Pensions UK 
Limited (Sanlam'). He says the recommendations made werent right for him.
Mr H has brought his complaint via a third party, but for ease of reference I shall refer to
Mr H in this decision rather than his representative.
What happened
Mr H took three savings programmes and a qualifying reviewable whole of life policy upon 
advice from Sanlam.
In February 2021 Mr H complained about the advice he was given to buy the products. He 
said they were unsuitable for him and he had suffered a financial loss as a result.
Sanlam upheld the complaint for the first two of the savings plans but didnt think the 
complaint about the third savings plan and life policy should be upheld.
It said for the third savings plan (ending 1003K) the sale was appropriate for Mr H. At the 
time Mr H had £6,000 of savings on deposit, already had a mortgage and was earning a 
respectable salary. Mr H paid £28 a month into the policy from June 1988 to October 
2005. The plan provided the investment benefit from the policy and included life cover of 
£1,008. The plan was invested 50% into a property fund and the other 50% into a 
managed fund. It was surrendered in November 2005.
For the suitability of the whole of life policy (ending 6247T), Sanlam said it was paid into 
from December 1987 for ten years at a cost of £15 per month. The policy provided a life 
assurance benefit of £42,000. It was surrendered in April 1997 for £1,094.46. When it was 
sold to Mr H Sanlam said there were limited regulations and requirements on businesses 
selling these types of life assurance policy. There was no evidence to confirm it was wholly 
unsuitable.
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator who considered the complaint initially thought it should be upheld in part 
Life policy
For the life cover the investigator said there wasnt any explanation as to why it was 
recommended to Mr H. As he was 23 years of age, single and had no dependants she 
couldnt see any reason why he would have had a need for any life cover as 
evidenced by him surrendering it after ten years. She didnt think it was appropriate for 
him.
Savings plan
When Mr H took the savings plan in June 1988, he already had two similar policies in 
place. The investigator said it wasnt her role to look at what was best for Mr H but 
whether the advice he was given was suitable. So just because Mr H may have been 
better advised to combine his three savings accounts, it didnt mean it was wrong of the 
adviser not to recommend that course of action.
Looking at what was known about Mr Hs outgoings for the two savings policies, the 
whole of life policy and his mortgage he already held, this suggested the policy sold in 
June 1988 was affordable for him. Because of his age, Mr H had the time and funds to 
make up any potential loss. The investigator thought the two underlying funds invested 
in  a managed and a property fund  were low risk and met Mr Hs objective of saving. 
In conclusion the investigator thought the savings plan was suitable.
However, after comment from Mr H, and further consideration, the investigator concluded 
that Mr Hs complaint about the savings plan should also be upheld. The investigator 
thought that at the point of sale Sanlam would have to provide a product that was suitable 
after determining Mr Hs attitude to risk. In the absence of an assessment of Mr Hs attitude 
to risk, and based on the information provided by Mr H, the investigator was satisfied that 
Mr H wasnt prepared to take much risk with his capital as he didnt want to risk losing any 
money.
Sanlam said that its advisers werent able to recommend the underlying funds for the 
savings plan but the investigator said it still had a duty to make sure the plan didnt allow
Mr H to choose funds that were too high risk to meet his needs. If the savings plan offered a 
range of funds, and not all of which were right for Mr Hs objective of saving, then the plan 
wasnt suitable for him. And the funds Mr H invested into offered a greater risk than he was 
prepared to take.
Sanlam disagreed with the investigator. It said it was Mr Hs choice as to which funds to 
invest in and Mr H had switched funds on several occasions. With reference to noting a 
clients attitude to risk it said the investigator was applying current day requirements to the 
time of the sale. There was no evidence to suggest it had advised the client about the 
fund choice. It said the funds selected by Mr H would support a higher attitude to risk than 
that of a balanced risk. And as evidenced by Mr H switching into higher risk funds, plus 
the fact that he had £6,000 at the point of sale, he could probably afford to take a bit of 
financial risk.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on partially upholding the complaint and 
detailed how the matter should be put right but I asked both parties to give me anything 
further they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
When the evidence I have for a complaint is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The savings programme (the plan)
As background, Mr H had two savings programmes taken shortly before the third 
sale made in June 1988. The first was taken in December 1987 and the second in 
January 1988. I wont be considering the merits of those sales as Sanlam has 
already agreed they were mis-sold.
The first two savings plan sales were made before the Financial Services Act 1986 
came into force  on 29 April 1988. That Act was aimed at regulating investment business and giving investors greater protection. It introduced the requirement for 
investments to be suitable for the consumers circumstances  so financial 
businesses had to find out the consumers needs and circumstances and give 
suitable advice.
Before then was a legal duty to give advice with reasonable skill and care  to 
ensure that the recommended investment was appropriate for the consumers 
circumstances at the time.
Mr H has very little recollection from the time of the sale but does recall it was a 
good idea to make some kind of saving. He has told us his attitude to risk was 
cautious. He was living with his parents until the summer of 1988 when he bought 
his first property with a mortgage of around £55,000 costing him about £500 per 
month. His income was recorded as being £29,410 and he had £6,000 in building 
society accounts.
Sanlam has been able to give us a copy of the Financial Planning Profile, Client 
Factfile completed at the time which details Mr Hs personal circumstances, his 
employment, income, assets, liabilities, pension scheme and details of the two 
savings plans already taken. But Sanlam hasnt been able to give us any paperwork 
from the time of the sale about how it assessed Mr Hs knowledge and experience, 
his attitude to risk and investment objectives.
For any recommendations it made Sanlam had to ensure they met Mr Hs 
investment objectives (including his attitude to risk, purpose of investing and how 
long he wanted to invest), that he was able to withstand the investment risk and 
had the necessary knowledge or experience to understand the risks.
Sanlam has said that at the time there no requirements to put in writing the 
consumers attitude to risk. In the absence of any information or evidence to show 
how Mr Hs attitude to risk was assessed, or what his objectives were, I have to 
take into account what is known about Mr Hs circumstances, what Mr H has told us 
and consider whether the investments recommended were suitable.
Mr H was young  aged 24 years  and had just taken out his first mortgage. With 
the exception of the two savings plans Mr H had taken within the prior six months, I 
havent seen any evidence to indicate that Mr H had any investment experience. This 
suggests that Mr H would be reliant upon the advice given to him by Sanlams 
adviser.
Sanlam hasnt been able to show us how it established Mr Hs attitude to risk. But 
I accept this sale took place over 30 years ago and its understandable there is 
little paperwork from the time of the sale. Sanlam has said there was no need to 
put this in writing at the time, and if this is Sanlams position, I would have 
expected Mr Hs attitude to risk to have been agreed through discussion between 
him and the adviser.
Clearly Mr H was seeking advice because he had limited knowledge or experience 
to make those investment decisions unaided. The savings plan was recommended 
to Mr H and within that product Sanlam offered a choice of underlying investments. 
The Portfolio Fund Choice document Ive seen (which I appreciate is from a later 
date than the sale) offers a wide range of funds with various risk ratings between 
low to high and investing in a variety of sectors.The outcome of the meeting with the adviser was that Mr Hs savings plan was to be 
invested  split equally  into the property fund and the managed fund, both of 
which Sanlam rated as medium risk investments.
Sanlam told us that its advisers werent allowed to give advice to consumers about 
what selection the consumer could make about the choice of underlying funds to be 
invested into within the savings plan. It said this was confirmed in its Terms of 
Business stipulations, but it couldnt provide a copy of this due to the length of time 
since the sale. However, it has been able to give us a copy of its Savings 
Programme document which explained the customer could invest in the managed 
fund or choose one of its 52 funds. The document further explains that the 
consumer could switch funds and detailed how to go about that. And Sanlam has 
told us that Mr H later carried out investment switches into various funds with 
different risk ratings. Sanlam has also said that if it had been the adviser choosing 
the funds then those funds would more likely have been the same funds chosen for 
the earlier two savings plans, but this was not the case.
However, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, Ive looked how   
Mr H came to be invested in the funds that he did. On the face of it, the information 
provided by Sanlam suggests that advice about the underlying fund choice wasnt 
given.
But equally Ive considered the overall picture  that Mr H with little evident 
investment experience, attended a meeting with an adviser, upon whom I think he 
would have been reliant for investment advice. And the outcome of that meeting 
was that Mr H was to open a savings plan which was to be invested into two 
medium risk funds. All of the paperwork was completed at that one meeting and I 
find it difficult to see how Mr H would have known when the advice to invest into the 
savings programme had stopped and the choice of the underlying investments was 
for him to decide unaided.
If I think its questionable that such an inexperienced investor would have the 
knowledge or experience to make those investment choices without any guidance 
or advice, then I would need to consider whether advice was given, albeit 
unintentionally through conversation or endorsement, see whether the two 
investments were suitable.
Alternatively, if the adviser didnt give any advice about the choice of the underlying 
investments  as is being maintained by Sanlam  then I would have to consider the 
suitability of the savings plan in the first instance if the chosen investments werent 
right for him.
I say this because effectively Sanlam placed Mr H in a position of advising him to 
open the savings plan but then left him to make his own investment decisions without 
any support which I think potentially meant Mr H could invest into funds which were 
wholly unsuitable for him. Mr H was left in the difficult position of having agreed to 
the savings plan but without any help about what to do after that. It gave Mr H the 
unfortunate opportunity of being careless with his money without him knowing it. The 
savings plan exposed him to the potential of taking a risk that he has told us he 
wasnt prepared to take.
Bearing this in mind, Ive gone onto consider the two investments that were held 
within the savings plan  the property and the managed fund  and whether they 
were suitable for Mr H, irrespective of whether any advice was given.As mentioned above, Sanlam doesnt have any record of how Mr Hs attitude to 
risk was ascertained so I have gone on to consider what Mr H has told us as well 
as his circumstances that were recorded at the time.
Mr H told us he recalls thinking it was a good idea to make some kind of saving 
and that his attitude to risk was cautious. But he also said he has very little 
recollection about the sale and I accept this sale took place over 30 years ago so I 
dont find this surprising as memories can and do fade over time.
While Mr Hs recollection is that he was a cautious risk investor, looking at his 
circumstances I think it is equally as likely that H did want to explore the opportunity 
to make his money grow more than was available from cautious risk investments.
I say this because Ive considered what is known about Mr Hs circumstances as 
recorded by Sanlam at the time. Mr H was in his early 20s, had a respectable 
income of £29,410 per annum (which its recorded he expected to rise), was making 
final salary pension contributions, had £6,000 in savings and had recently taken on a 
mortgage which he thought cost around £500 per month.
Taking all of this into account, I think Mr Hs known circumstances suggest he 
was in a stable financial position and could afford to take some risk. He was 
young, single, had no dependants and was earning a reasonable salary which he 
said at the time he expected to increase. So, I think there was a capacity for loss 
which  in return for a better potential reward  would more likely be implicit in a 
medium risk investment than a cautious risk investment.
And Mr H has said he recalls that some sort of saving would be good. But I note he 
already had £6,000 in place with a building society  which was in excess of any 
funds he may have used for the deposit on his very recently taken mortgage  so he 
had already starting saving. Those savings also provided Mr H with a reasonable 
financial cushion representing around three months worth of his salary. And taking 
into account his known income and outgoings, Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
monthly premium for the savings plan of £28 was unaffordable for Mr H.
So, I dont think its unreasonable to suggest  or conclude that it was just as 
likely  that Mr H was looking for an alternative to savings and was willing to take 
more risk than cautious. Sanlam has told us that subsequent to the initial 
investment Mr H carried out several fund switches into various funds with differing 
risk ratings, which while I accept these actions were after the initial advice was 
given, does suggest that Mr H was comfortable with the investment over the 
years and confident enough to make those switches.
Overall, I havent seen sufficient evidence for me to conclude that Mr H wasnt 
willing to take a medium risk with his investments rather than cautious. So currently, 
and in the particular circumstance of this complaint, Im not minded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint about the savings plan.
The whole of life policy
This sale took place in December 1987 prior to the introduction of the Financial 
Services Act on 29 April 1998 and at that time the business representative had to 
advise with skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors.The cost of the policy was £15 per month and after deduction of the cost of the life 
assurance itself, the remainder of the premium was to be 100% invested into a 
managed fund. The sum assured was £42,000.
In the absence of much information being available about Mr Hs circumstances at 
the point of this sale, Ive considered whether Mr H wanted or needed life cover.
At the time of sale in 1987, Mr H was young and single with no dependents. He was 
living at home with his parents and he took his first mortgage in the summer of 
1988, so life cover wasnt needed for mortgage purposes, which may have been a 
requirement at that time. He says he cant recall wanting life cover, his only 
intention was to start saving.
I accept that the policy provided the opportunity for saving, but this could have been 
achieved without the addition of the life assurance and implicit cost. Its difficult to 
conclude that the policy was appropriate for him  no-one was going to be 
financially disadvantaged in the event of his death  and he could have achieved 
savings growth without the need or cost of the whole of life policy itself.
So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am upholding it. I cant see 
that the advice was appropriate for him at the time so I cannot conclude Mr H was 
advised with reasonable care and skill. So, to put the matter right, Mr H should be 
put back into the position hed have been in had he not taken out this life cover.
To put things right I said, Sanlam should refund the premiums Mr H paid for the whole of life 
policy less the surrender value, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the date the 
premiums were paid to the date of settlement. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr H said he had nothing to add. We didnt receive 
any reply from Sanlam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and reiterate 
the compensation that Sanlam should calculate.
Putting things right
To put things right Sanlam Life and Pensions UK Limited must do the following:
Refund the premiums Mr H has paid for the whole of life policy less 
the surrender value.
Add interest* at 8% simple per annum from the date the premiums were paid 
to the date of settlement.
*If Sanlam Life and Pensions UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint about the sale of the whole of life policy and Sanlam Life and 
Pensions UK Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above. I do not uphold 
Mr Hs complaint about the savings plan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman