DRN-3832118
The complaint
Mr K complains about the level of service received from OakNorth Bank plc (OakNorth). He 
said he experienced difficulty contacting them by telephone. 
What happened
Mr K complains around August 2022, he experienced difficulty contacting OakNorth by 
telephone meaning he was unable to use their telephone banking service. He said this 
caused him great inconvenience. He also complains OakNorth wasnt being honest or clear 
that their telephone banking service had been suspended. 
Mr K complained. OakNorth said they were experiencing high call volumes which meant 
there were increased waiting times to speak to their agents. They said there was a recorded 
message that outlined the same when consumers called. In this same message, they also 
said they provided alternative means of communication - email. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr K referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He accepted there were issues with OakNorths 
telephone lines meaning he couldnt contact them by phone. However he was satisfied they 
provided alternative means of communication which Mr K used so no detriment was caused. 
Concerning Mr Ks concerns about how OakNorth dealt with the complaint, he said this 
wasnt something our service can look into. Mr K disagreed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint, Ill explain why. 
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an 
informal alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be 
able to reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute OakNorth experienced issues with their telephone lines which meant 
they couldnt answer calls and/or there were significant wait times to speak to their agents. 
What I need to consider is whether in light of that situation, did OakNorth treat Mr K fairly.
 
Ive listened to OakNorths recorded telephone message as provided by Mr K. I find it was 
the same message as outlined in their final response letter. In brief, it apologised that due to 
high call volumes, they were unable to answer the call but consumers should send emails 
instead and a response will be provided as quickly as possible.  
It is unfortunate this situation occurred as consumers, like Mr K, may prefer to bank by 
telephone. However such scenarios may happen for various operational reasons. In this 
case, OakNorth said this was due to increased call volumes. I have no evidence or reason to 
believe this wasnt the case so I accept what theyve said in good faith. Its not my role or 
that of this service to tell financial businesses like OakNorth how to run their operations and 
processes including their telephony service. But what I do expect is they treat their 
customers fairly and reasonably. 
In this case, Im satisfied OakNorth has done so. I say this because they were clear in their 
recorded message that they were experiencing issues with their phone lines which meant 
calls couldnt be answered. Anybody who called would be made aware of the same and Mr 
K heard this message. More importantly, I can also hear OakNorth provide other ways for 
their consumers to get in touch with them, that is, by email.
From my understanding, Mr K prefers to bank via telephone so I can understand his 
frustration and the inconvenience caused when he wasnt able to do so. However based on 
the evidence presented to me, I can see he sent several emails to OakNorth over a number 
of days and more often than not, he received a response within the same day. I find his 
requests and instructions were actioned promptly without any apparent issue. I accept the 
action may not have been as instantaneous had he been able to speak to them via phone 
but I find his requests were dealt with promptly. 
Since the complaint has been with our service, Mr K has told us that OakNorths telephone 
banking service has resumed. Im glad to hear this and I hope this reassures him that he can 
return to contact them via his preferred method. As there is no indication they permanently 
discontinued their telephone banking, I cant agree with Mr Ks comments that OakNorth 
misinformed him or they werent clear. It appears the issue with the telephone banking was a 
temporary one. 
In summary, Im satisfied OakNorths level of service was reasonable. They made Mr K 
aware they were experiencing issues with their telephone banking and provided him with 
alternative means to contact them which he used. For that reason, I find OakNorth treated 
Mr K fairly so I wont be asking them to pay him compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman