DRN-3573398
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) terminated a Bounce Back Loan agreement and closed its bank account 
unfairly.
Ls director, Mr C, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
L banked with NatWest and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £10,000 on 
3 July 2020.
NatWest initially approved Ls application and it sent the company a loan agreement, which 
Mr C signed and returned on 5 July 2020. 
NatWest didnt provide the loan to L. It reviewed its relationship with the company and its 
Bounce Back Loan application, which led it to withdraw its services from L and cancel the 
loan agreement.
In its letter of 9 July, NatWest said it would close Ls bank account in seven days time. But 
in the event, the account remained open until 25 August. Mr C was unable to access the 
funds held within it, as the bank had applied a restriction to the account while conducting its 
review. The funds, totalling just over £300, werent released until 12 May 2021.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, NatWest said that upon review it had identified that it 
shouldnt have approved Ls Bounce Back Loan application and had terminated the 
agreement accordingly. With regard to the bank account, it said it had decided to end its 
relationship with L and done so in accordance with the terms and conditions. The bank 
subsequently said that it didnt cause any delay in releasing the account balance to L, as it 
had only received a funds release form from the company in February 2021 and had then 
needed to complete some checks.
Mr C didnt think NatWest had treated L fairly, so he asked us to look into things. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part. In 
summary, she didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in deciding to terminate the 
Bounce Back Loan agreement or end its relationship with L. But she couldnt see why it had 
taken NatWest until 12 May to release the account balance after receiving the funds release 
form on 19 February. So she thought that the bank should compensate L for the impact of 
being without this amount by paying the company 8% interest on it for this period and £100 
for the inconvenience it had been caused.
NatWest didnt accept our investigators view, as it maintained that it wasnt responsible for 
any undue delay in releasing Ls funds. And Mr C didnt think the compensation went far 
enough, as he said NatWests actions had destroyed his business. So with no resolution, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, NatWest was entitled  and 
expected  to continue to keep matters under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud 
obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory 
requirements. So I dont think it didnt anything wrong in conducting a review of Ls loan after 
entering into an agreement to provide it. 
Upon review, NatWest concluded that it shouldnt have approved Ls Bounce Back Loan 
application in the first place. Ive reviewed the basis on which it reached this decision, and I 
think it was reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. For businesses established prior to 1 January 
2019  as L was  this percentage was to be based on their turnover for the calendar year 
2019. 
On Ls behalf, Mr C applied to HSBC for a loan of £10,000, so the company needed to have 
a turnover of at least £40,000. L signed a declaration confirming that its turnover was at the 
requisite level to be eligible for the £10,000 loan it requested. So NatWest approved the 
application on this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that they met the eligibility 
criteria. However, Mr C has sent us Ls accounts, which show that the company did not have 
a turnover of this level. 
The terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan agreement set out that drawdown of the 
loan would not be permitted if an Event of Default had occurred. Such events included 
where any information given by or on behalf of L, which NatWest considered material, was 
inaccurate. So I think NatWest was entitled to cancel the facility on this basis alone, although 
I note that the bank also had other concerns as to the companys entitlement to the loan that 
would have led it to the same conclusion.
NatWests review of Ls Bounce Back Loan application led it to close the companys account. 
That was a decision it was entitled to make and it was permitted, in certain circumstances, to 
do so immediately. Given all Ive said above, I think it was reasonable for it to do so here  
albeit that it opted to give the company seven days notice, and in the event only processed 
the account closure some time later.
As I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in cancelling Ls Bounce Back Loan or closing 
its account, it follows that I dont think it is responsible for any losses that the company may 
have incurred as a result of these actions. Any such disruption was an unfortunate 
consequence of NatWests legitimate decisions in light of its review.
However, I dont think NatWest released Ls funds as soon as it shouldve done. The 
account was due to be closed on 16 July 2020, yet the funds held within it were only 
released to L on 12 May 2021. NatWest says it only received the requisite funds release 
form from L in February, which caused part of the delay. While there is limited evidence to 
confirm this, I can see that the bank confirmed to Mr C that it was still awaiting this in its 
response to his complaint  which supports some initial delay on his part. But NatWest 
hasnt shown us why, even after apparently receiving the form it needed on 19 February, it 
took a further three months to give L its money. The bank says it was awaiting the 
completion of some final checks on Ls entitlement to the funds  but it hasnt sent us evidence of this, despite our request. So, like our investigator, I think there was an avoidable 
delay here that deprived L of access to its funds unfairly.
Ive not seen that this delay caused L any financial losses  and the withheld sum was 
relatively modest. But to compensate the company for the loss of use of these funds, I think 
it would be fair for NatWest to pay it 8% simple interest for the period 19 February to 12 May. 
L was also caused some inconvenience in having to chase the matter up with the bank, 
including by way of complaint  for which I also think £100 represents fair compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay L:
8% simple interest on the closing account balance for the period 19 February 2021 to 
12 May 2021; and 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman