DRN-1298661
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that the settlement shes been paid by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) for a replacement oven isnt fair.
What happened
Mrs As oven was about 20 years old. It broke down and so she claimed on her kitchen 
appliance cover with British Gas. An engineer came out to look at the oven, but given its 
age, the parts he needed to repair it werent available. 
Mrs A claimed on the policy for replacement of the oven. The policy terms said if an 
appliance was over three years old, British Gas would pay a 30% contribution towards a new 
one.
British Gas considered photos of Mrs As old oven, along with its specification. It offered Mrs 
A settlement of £64.32 towards a new oven, which it said was a 30% contribution towards a 
model of similar functionality. Mrs A wasnt happy with British Gas offer and asked British 
Gas to reconsider.  She felt her old oven had been a high-end oven and that the offer should 
reflect this. 
Mrs A bought a new oven for £379. She considered British Gas settlement should be 30% 
of the price of her new oven, rather than the model itd based its calculation on. She asked 
us to look into her complaint. She also felt British Gas should offer compensation for the way 
itd handled her claim. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that when 
Mrs As old oven was made, it was likely to have been considered mid-high end. But he 
thought that the model British Gas had based its settlement offer on looked to be of similar 
functionality. And he thought the new oven Mrs A had bought was of a higher specification 
that her old one, with superior features. So he didnt think British Gas needed to increase its 
offer to 30% of the price of the model Mrs A had bought. He considered British Gas had 
settled the claim in line with its policy terms. He didnt think British Gas needed to pay Mrs A 
any compensation.
Mrs A disagreed with the investigator. She felt that the terms and conditions of the policy 
were vague and ambiguous. She said that the main factors in buying her new oven were that 
it was manufactured in the same country as her old oven; quality and reliability. She 
mentioned that given the policy terms relating to replacements, she felt the policy was of no 
use to her, given the type of appliances she owns. And she said if shed known that, she 
wouldnt have paid thousands of pounds for the cover. She also felt that her long-standing 
history with British Gas and the fact she hadnt previously made a claim on the policy should 
have some bearing on the complaint.
The investigator thought about Mrs As comments, but he didnt change his mind. So Mrs A 
asked for an ombudsmans decision on her complaint. She added that the model oven shed replaced her old one with was the closest range to her original oven. And that the two brands 
were linked. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided British Gas 
offer of settlement is fair. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mrs A feels very strongly about this complaint. Shes provided lots of information in 
support of it. Id like to reassure her that Ive carefully thought about everything shes sent 
me. But in making my decision, Ive focused on the issues I think are the most important.
What does the policy say?
Its up to British Gas to decide how it wants to settle claims, so long as these are set out 
clearly in the policy terms and conditions. So Ive first looked at what the policy says about 
replacing kitchen appliances:
Whats covered
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or if we decide it will cost 
less to replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved 
supplier and make the following contribution based on their current retail selling price.
30% if your appliance is three years old or more.
Its not disputed that Mrs As oven was over three years old, or that it couldnt be repaired. 
So I think a settlement offer of 30% was in line with British Gas policy terms. 
Mrs A feels the policy wording is vague and ambiguous  especially relating to the word 
their. Ive thought about this, but I disagree. I think their is clearly intended to mean British 
Gas approved supplier. And that read together, the term clearly means that settlement is 
calculated based on the approved supplier finding a replacement appliance and British Gas 
paying 30% of the approved suppliers current price.
British Gas approved supplier found a replacement oven and British Gas calculated a 30% 
contribution towards the retail price. Ive looked at the model the supplier found and 
researched its current retail price. Broadly, what British Gas has offered is 30% of the 
current market price of the oven, although some retailers charge slightly more and some 
less. 
So on the face of it, British Gas has settled Mrs As claim in line with the policy terms.
In this case, Mrs As policy also defines what British Gas means by replacement, so Ive 
turned to look at this definition. It says:
In the case of kitchen appliance cover well provide a contribution towards a replacement 
appliance with similar functionality from our approved supplier.
Based on this definition, Ill now consider whether or not the oven British Gas calculated its 
offer on was of similar functionality to Mrs As old oven.
 
Was the replacement model found by British Gas supplier of similar functionality?Its clear from everything Mrs As told us that she doesnt believe the model British Gas 
approved suppliers found was of similar functionality, quality or reliability to her old oven. Ive 
thought about what shes said. Ive also looked closely at the photo of the oven she sent us 
and the broad specification of it.
It appears that Mrs As old oven was a single electric oven, with a grill, fan and timer. The 
model the approved supplier found was a single electric oven of the same size, colour, which 
also had a grill and a fan, although it didnt have a timer. Broadly, the specifications of the 
proposed model were the same as the old oven.
Ive thought about whether the absence of a timer makes a difference. Overall, I dont think it 
does. Ive looked at single electric ovens of similar specifications which do include timers. 
Some of these are somewhat cheaper than the total price of the model the approved 
supplier found. So I think the offer wouldve meant Mrs A had around 30% (or more) to put 
towards an oven with much the same functions and specifications.
Mrs A provided us with a letter from an appliance engineer, which said that the brand British 
Gas had based its offer on was not well known and didnt have a reputation in the market. 
He also compared Mrs As old oven to high end ovens. 
However, the policy doesnt require British Gas to calculate settlement based on a like for 
like oven or brand. Nor find a model from a particular manufacturer or country. It only 
requires the appliance to be of similar functionality. And based on everything Ive seen, while 
I know Mrs A disagrees strongly, I think its most likely the model the approved supplier 
found was of similar functionality to Mrs As old oven.
This means I think British Gas offer of settlement was calculated fairly.
Has British Gas provided poor service?
Mrs A feels British Gas has offered poor service and should pay her compensation. Ive 
considered the claim notes Ive seen and all Mrs As said. It seems to me that British Gas 
dealt with the initial call out promptly and agreed to accept the replacement claim in a fair 
amount of time. It seems much of the ongoing correspondence has been about how the 
claim should be settled, rather than down to any avoidable delays on British Gas part. We 
generally also wouldnt uphold a complaint simply because of the length of time a 
consumers been with a financial business. So I dont think it would be appropriate to tell 
British Gas to pay Mrs A any compensation.
Ive seen that Mrs As commented on the fact she believes the policy was of little use to her. 
British Gas wasnt responsible for selling Mrs As policy to her, its responsible for dealing 
with claims on the policy. If Mrs A wants to complain about the sale of the policy, shed need 
to complain to the seller.
Overall, I think British Gas has offered to settle Mrs As claim fairly. And I dont think it needs 
to pay her any compensation. So I wont be telling it to do anything more.
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman