DRN-4436086
Complaint
Mr H has complained about an overdraft National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided to him. He says the overdraft was irresponsibly provided as he said that he couldnt 
afford it on more than one occasion.
Background
NatWest initially provided Mr H with a student overdraft for £500 in June 2017 the limit was 
increased to £2,000.00, after an online application, in August 2017. The overdraft was to be 
interest and fee free for at least the duration of Mr Hs studies provided he stayed within his 
limit.  
In March 2023, Mr H complained that NatWest irresponsibly provided him with his overdraft. 
NatWest didnt accept that this was the case. Nonetheless it accepted that there were 
service issues and that it didnt log a complaint on Mr Hs behalf sooner in circumstances 
where it should have done and paid him £100 for this. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr H and NatWest had told us. And she thought that 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly in relation to providing him with 
his overdraft or increasing his credit limit. So she didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H 
could afford to repay before providing him with an overdraft and his limit increases. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
NatWest says it agreed to Mr Hs application after it carried out a credit search and obtained 
some information about his income and expenditure. On the other hand, Mr H says NatWest 
didnt do anything at all before agreeing to lend to him.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and NatWest have said. 
I think that it is worth it for me to start by saying that Mr H wouldnt have had to pay any 
interest or charges for some time provided that he kept within his overdraft limit. I think this is 
especially important context to bear in mind given what Mr H has said here. 
When Mr H initially applied for his overdraft, I can see that Mr H was asked for some 
information on his income and expenditure. NatWest has also provided a record of what its 
credit checks showed too. And Im satisfied that the credit search NatWest carried out 
showed Mr H hadnt had previous difficulties with credit. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that the situation changed by the time that Mr H was provided with his limit increase shortly 
afterwards either.
I know that Mr H says he wasnt told that he would be credit searched at the time of the 
application. But the information from the time does suggest that information explaining that 
credit searches would be carried out is likely to have been provided to Mr H. I dont know if 
Mr H considered this information at the time. 
But even if I accept that the process regarding applications for credit and credit searches 
hadnt adequately been brought to Mr Hs attention, for the sake of completeness I wish to 
make it clear that Im not making such a finding here in light of the information provided from 
the time, I nonetheless have to consider what Mr H is likely to have done had this process 
been highlighted and brought to his attention. 
Mr H clearly wanted the overdraft  at least at the time that he applied for it  and a credit 
search is usually the minimum a lender will request as part of its decision on whether to lend. 
So carrying out a credit search is in effect standard practice for most lenders when 
considering an application for credit. 
And in these circumstances its difficult for me to accept that Mr H would have decided 
against an overdraft application if the fact that a credit search would be carried out as part of 
the process had been better explained to him. Particularly as he hasnt shown that he 
suffered from a loss due to a credit search being carried out on him.
Im also mindful about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of his overdraft application and limit 
increase and the fact that he was entering (and in at the time of the increase) full time 
education. In these circumstances, where Mr H was unlikely to earn for some time, its 
difficult for me to agree that agreeing this overdraft was wholly unreasonable given it would 
provide him with some breathing space and was a far better alternative to any other 
alternative sources of credit Mr H would more likely than not have turned to. 
I dont agree that Mr H was provided with his overdraft at a time where he had no income 
either given Mr Hs statements show that he was in receipt of student loans. Mr H now says 
that he applied for his overdraft because he was desperate to pay bills. Again I dont know if 
this was the case as this isnt supported by Mr Hs statements from the time. 
But nonetheless I cant see an alternative where Mr H would have been able to borrow from 
a lender  in order to pay bills  without having to pay interest at the time. And given the circumstances, where this was a student account where Mr H would continue to receive the 
funds interest free for an extended period, its difficult for me to accept that providing Mr H 
with the overdraft or increase the limit.
So overall bearing in mind the circumstances and the type of facility it agreed to, I dont think 
that NatWest treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with an interest free 
overdraft. 
Mr H has said that he wasnt permitted to reduce his overdraft limit when he requested this. I 
dont know what Mr H asked for or what he was told. But it is pretty routine for a limit 
decrease to be actioned for customer, as long as such a decrease to a customers limit 
wouldnt leave them over their new limit. 
Indeed, on Mr Hs student account carrying out such a course of action would have seen him 
pay overlimit fees and interest in circumstances where if he wasnt over his previous limit he 
wouldnt have to pay anything until after his graduation at the very least. Mr H says he was 
going to pay some funds to drop the balance. 
But I dont think that NatWest refusing to action any such request, until the balance had 
already been reduced, was unfair given the consequences had Mr H not gone on to 
immediately credit the account in the way that he said he would. So I wouldnt consider 
NatWest refusing a limit decrease in the circumstances Mr H has described to be unfair.
Finally, I know that Mr H is unhappy that his balance has been passed to a debt collection 
agency. I fully appreciate why hes unhappy with this course of action, adverse information 
being recorded on his credit file and worried about the impact this will have. 
But its clear that Mr H hasnt been able to start bringing down his balance since his student 
and graduate terms ended. Furthermore, the statements Ive been provided with dont 
indicate that NatWest started charging interest on the full balance either. In any event, I dont 
think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for NatWest to continue ignoring 
Mr Hs obvious and apparent difficulty and inability to bring his overdraft balance down, or 
the fact that the overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. 
So I would have expected NatWest to have taken action in the way that it did when it did. 
After all while withdrawing a facility, passing a debt on and/or recording adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to 
begin the process of taking action in relation to Mr Hs overdraft when it did. 
As this is the case and Mr H didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, or 
reach a suitable arrangement to repay what was owed within a reasonable period of time, 
Im satisfied that NatWest was entitled to withdraw Mr Hs overdraft, record the adverse 
information it did and also pass his balance on to the debt collection agency in the way that it 
did. If Mr H is unhappy at the actions of the debt collection agency, this is a matter that he 
will need to take up with that party in the first instance. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Mr H  particularly as hes been paid £100 in relation to 
service issues and the handling of his complaint. But Im afraid that this doesnt mean that 
NatWest has accepted it irresponsibly provided him with an overdraft in the way that he 
considers. And whilst I accept that he may not agree with me, I hope Mr H will understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman