DRN-3239795
The complaint
Ms J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it 
increased the credit limit on her credit card.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Ms J applied for a Barclaycard in January 2016 and it was approved with a credit limit of
£6,500. In April 2016 Barclaycard increased it to £8,000 and in April 2019 it increased the 
credit limit further to £11,000.
Barclaycard recently wrote to Ms J and said it had reviewed the credit limit increases for 
her account. Barclaycard said it had found some potential errors in the assessments it 
completed before increasing customers credit limits.
Ms J went on to complain that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly when it increased her 
credit limit. Barclaycard paid Ms J £75 but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Barclaycard 
said it had looked at Ms Js credit file, account history and application information before 
deciding to proceed.
Ms J referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
didnt agree Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly. Ms J asked to appeal and said her 
Barclaycard had been in persistent debt since November 2018. Ms J said Barclaycards 
decision to increase her credit limit had contributed to the situation.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J has told us shes in persistent debt and that Barclaycards decision to increase her 
credit limit to £8,000 then £11,000 made her situation worse. Ive looked at the 
information Barclaycard had available before it took the step of increasing the credit limit 
to see whether I think it lent irresponsibly.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Barclaycard had to complete reasonable and
proportionate checks to ensure Ms J could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way.
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like:
-The amount of credit;
-The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
-The duration of the agreement
-The costs of the credit; and
-The consumers individual circumstances.
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required 
to consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Barclaycard says it looked at the information on Ms Js credit file, considered the 
details noted in her original application and also reviewed her account management 
and history before it took the decision to increase her credit limit. Ive looked at both 
instances to see whether those checks were proportionate.
Ms J applied for the credit card in January 2016 and it was approved with a credit limit of
£6,500. In April 2016 Ms J asked Barclaycard to increase the credit limit and it went up to
£8,000. Barclaycard has supplied the credit file information it used and I can see it found 
Ms J had around £1,600 of other unsecured debt. Barclaycard says it also uses financial 
modelling and risk assessments to assess whether a credit limit increase is affordable 
and I can see it met the lending criteria required. Im sorry to disappoint Ms J, but Im 
satisfied Barclaycard did carry out proportionate checks. I havent found Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly when it approved the first credit limit increase in April 2016.
Ive reached a different decision concerning the second credit limit increase, in April 
2019. I dont agree that Barclaycard carried out proportionate checks. Ill explain why.
Looking at the credit file information, its clear Ms Js situation had changed between April 
2016 and April 2019. At the point the credit limit increased to £11,000 Barclaycards 
credit file data showed Ms J owed around £18,500 to other credit card providers, £1,250 
to her bank account provider and £9,699 to loan providers. Thats roughly £29,000, an 
increase of over £27,000 from April 2016.
In my view, the substantial increase in unsecured debt shouldve caused Barclaycard to 
consider whether Ms J could afford to sustainably repay an increased balance. I think 
Barclaycard shouldve carried out more comprehensive checks before deciding whether 
to increase Ms Js credit limit further.
Ive thought about the sort of information Barclaycard couldve looked at. Barclaycard 
couldve asked Ms J to provide bank statements, evidence of her income or a detailed 
picture of her income and outgoings for example. Ms J has told us her income at this 
stage was largely used up servicing the debt repayments she was making. I think 
Barclaycard wouldve found that Ms J wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any 
further credit it if had completed better checks. I dont think it wouldve increased Ms Js 
credit limit.
I note Ms Js balance wasnt at the maximum in April 2019. But Ms J has explained she 
took out a loan to try and consolidate her debts and I can see her Barclaycard balance 
was repaid the following month. Im satisfied Ms J used a loan to clear her Barclaycard as 
shes told us. I can also see Ms Js balance then crept back up to around £4,750. So whilst 
Ms Js balance did reduce, her overall position appears to be one of increasing reliance on 
credit to make ends meet. I further note that Ms J hasnt made any substantial repayments 
since April 2019, the point Barclaycard increased the credit limit to £11,000.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to partially uphold Ms Js complaint. As 
Ive explained above, I think Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it approved the credit limit 
increase in April 2019. I intend to tell Barclaycard to refund the interest Ms J has paid on 
balances over £8,000 from April 2019. Once Barclaycard has reworked Ms Js account, I 
intend to tell it to administer any remaining balance over £8,000 on an interest free basis.In addition, as I think balances over £8,000 were lent irresponsibly, it wouldnt be fair for 
Barclaycard to report any adverse information about them to the credit reference agencies. 
That includes any payment arran e with Ms J going forward in relation to balances over 
£8,000.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Barclaycard responded and accepted the 
provisional decision. We didnt hear back from Ms J. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As we didnt receive any new information in response to the provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change the conclusions I reached. I still think Ms Js complaint should be upheld, 
for the same reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Js complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle in line with the following guidance:
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to balances over £8,000 from April 
2016 to date
- If the above refund doesnt reduce the outstanding balance below £8,000, 
Barclaycard should administer balances above that on an interest free basis going 
forward  
- Barclaycard should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit file 
about balances over £8,000 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman