DRN-3552287
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice given by Towergate Financial (East) Limited (Towergate) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says his understanding was that both schemes were very similar  he 
wasnt told how far apart they actually were  so he thought had nothing to lose by deciding 
to transfer out.
What happened
Mr N met with Towergate in May 2007 to discuss his pension and retirement needs.
Towergate completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ns circumstances and
objectives. Towergate also carried out an assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk, which it
deemed to be cautious  a score of two on a scale of one to ten.
On 30 May 2007, Towergate advised Mr N not to transfer his DB scheme pension benefits
into a personal pension. The suitability report said the reason for this recommendation was
because given the critical yield of 6.7% and Mr Ns attitude to risk, there was a high risk that
Mr N would be worse off in retirement.
Within the same report and immediately beneath the recommendation not to transfer, it said
that, because Mr N had indicated in the fact-find that his priority for his pension was lump
sum death benefits before retirement - and there was a possibility that he might be better off
by transferring away  he decided to transfer against its advice.
The report said that Mr N asked Towergate to recommend a suitable product and provider to
received his DB scheme benefits, and its recommended solution was to transfer to a
personal pension, which would provide investment choice and full flexibility.
On 2 June 2007 Mr N sent Towergate a typed letter, which said that he wanted to transfer
his DB pension to a personal pension and take the additional cash lump sum being offered
(representing the enhancement to the transfer value.)
It said that hed received the suitability report and understood his decision was against
Towergates advice and that the plan recommended was following his request for a suitable
contract. Finally it said that Mr N understood hed be worse off in retirement but wished to go
ahead anyway.
In 2017 Towergate wrote to Mr N to say that as part of some work carried out by its regulator
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), it was offering to review the advice and information
hed been given in 2007. And Mr N accepted to be part of the review.
On 13 October 2020 Towergate wrote to Mr N to say that its review of the advice he was
given showed that he was told not to transfer his DB pension, but that he knowingly acted
against that advice. It said it wouldnt therefore be offering any redress.
In November 2020, in response to Mr Ns dissatisfaction with the outcome, Towergate
repeated its reasons for not offering redress.
Mr N referred his complaint to our service in December 2020 and one of investigators didnt 
uphold the complaint. Because Mr N disagreed, and the investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change their mind, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision of June 2022 in which I said I was likely to uphold the 
complaint and I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with anything they wanted me 
to consider in response.
Towergate said that it accepted my provisional decision and wouldnt challenge further.
Mr N said he had nothing further to add. 
While Im mindful that both parties have effectively accepted my provisional decision, in the 
interest of completeness, Ive decided to go ahead and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and direct Towergate to put things 
right. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), stated in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COB) at the time, that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Towergate should have only considered a transfer if it
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ns best interests (COB 5.3.29).
A key aspect in this case is Towergates categorisation of Mr N as an insistent client - this is
a client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were rules in the regulators Handbook, which required Towergate
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In
addition, COB required Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair and not
misleading. So, Towergates recommendation had to be clear and Mr N had to have 
understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
In it suitability report, Towergate recommended that Mr N should not transfer away from his
DB scheme. It said this was because the critical yield or investment return needed to match
the benefits of his existing scheme was too high given his cautious attitude to risk. 
Towergate warned Mr N that there was a high risk hed be worse off in retirement if he 
transferred.
In the same report, Towergate said that Mr N had decided he wanted to ahead in any event.And in response to Mr Ns request, it went on to recommend a solution that provided flexible
retirement benefits with an investment fund choice, which appears to have been appropriate
for Mr Ns attitude to risk.
But Mr N says that he wasnt provided with all the information and didnt understand his DB
scheme benefits were better  he thought the two pension schemes were similar  which is
why he thought he had nothing to lose by transferring out. He says it wasnt explained to him
how far apart the two schemes actually are.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, while Towergates suitability
report did set out that its recommendation for Mr N was not to proceed with the transfer, I
think there were weaknesses and failings in the advice process, which meant Towergate
didnt act in his best interests. And I think Mr N likely understood or believed overall that
Towergate was recommending he should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because looking at the suitability report, immediately underneath the brief one
reason why Towergate recommended Mr N should not transfer away from his DB scheme,
and before hed had time to read and reflect on the written advice and recommendation
made, I think that advice was undermined and confused. It says that, because Mr N
indicated one of his main considerations for his pension was to provide lump sum benefits
before retirement, he might be better off transferring away from his DB scheme. And while it
said this would be against Towergates advice, Im not persuaded this was clear given the
context and overall positioning of the advice. Im also mindful that, when setting out Mr Ns
options, the first and second options presented to him involved him transferring his benefits
out of the DB scheme, with the third option being to remain in the scheme.
I think if Towergate firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr
Ns best interests, it wouldnt have told Mr N at the same time as delivering its
recommendation that he might be better off by transferring and entering into a discussion
that ultimately appears to have led to him deciding to transfer in any event. I dont think
Towergates actions here were fair to Mr N or acting in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Ns best interests to go against Towergates recommendation  yet
the evidence appears to indicate that Towergate made it very easy for him to do so. And as I
said above, given the way the recommendation was worded and laid out, I think Mr N could
have interpreted this overall that Towergate was recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Towergate that Mr N had little knowledge or experience
of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr N was an
experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced.
Im mindful too that Towergate assessed Mr Ns attitude to risk as cautious, which doesnt
suggest that he would be someone who was confident or had the requisite knowledge to go
against the advice they were given. I also think that, given Mr N was unemployed at the time
he was likely in a vulnerable position. And I think this shouldve put Towergate on notice that
it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client route.
Ive looked at the insistent client letter Mr N signed and dated a few days after the suitability
report. I think its likely this was templated. 
Not only is the language quite business like and formal, it lacks any personal reasons why 
Mr N had decided to go against the advice he received. The only personal information  his 
name and reference number  are handwritten against typed headings.While I acknowledge it wasnt a requirement at the time, given Mr Ns level of experience, I
think it wouldve been important for Towergate to ensure he understood what he was getting
into. And a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that he
understood the recommendation being made and importantly why he wanted to proceed.
Although the suitability report indicated Mr N decided to go ahead because of the potential
for higher lump sum pre-retirement death benefits (albeit it strikes me as odd that someone
with no spouse or dependent children would rank this above anything else for their pension,
which I will discuss later on) his letter doesnt say this was the reason. As I said above, Mr N
provided no reason for either going against the advice or importantly why he wanted to take
the cash lump sum.
Because I have doubts that these were Mr Ns own words, Im not persuaded he was able to
make an informed choice here. And I think the lack of explanation from Mr N about why he
wanted to proceed ought to have given Towergate reason to ask further questions.
But Towergate instead immediately produced a recommendation, which I think muddied the
waters further. While the suitability report said that, in light of Mr Ns decision to transfer he
asked Towergate to recommend a suitable product, it proceeded to give a positive
recommendation advising Mr N to transfer his benefits to a personal pension and invest in a
cautious lifestyle fund. And this was all set out under a heading titled Recommendation.
While the suitability requirements under COB 5.3 were not as prescriptive as the current
rules and were more principles-based, I think Towergate was still required to give Mr N
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction - that is the transfer and the choice of
pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr N advice on the advice to transfer, and only
considered the suitability of the proposed alternative after Mr N decided to proceed in any
event.
So, by recommending that Mr N transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, I think it has
effectively recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Towergate didnt think that
transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal pension was in Mr Ns best interests, it
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable
for him. I dont think it could separate out the elements. For this reason and given the way
the suitability report was set out, I think Mr N likely believed Towergate was recommending
he transfer out of the DB scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so.
I can see Towergate says Mr N was unemployed at the time of the advice and had an
income deficit of around £160 a month. It says Mr N only had around £600 left in savings
and this is why he decided to transfer out of his DB scheme and take the cash lump sum
available to him.
But if Towergate understood this was the true position and it was Mr Ns objective to secure
funds to meet his everyday living needs while he was out of work, then I would have
expected this to have been documented in the advice paperwork, so that when it delivered
its recommendation to Mr N it was clear that Towergate didnt think it was suitable advice to
transfer from his DB scheme to a personal arrangement for this purpose.
Also, if this was Mr Ns objective for wanting to transfer out, I think that in acting in his best
interests Towergate should have gathered more information to better understand his position
 importantly whether he believed his financial situation would improve in the relative short-
term. Mr N indicated in the fact-find that he expected his employment situation to change, so
Towergate could have asked questions to understand this in more detail - for example how
long Mr N believed he would continue to be out of work and what his prospects for
employment were - before continuing to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer hispension.
Looking at Mr Ns income and expenditure recorded on the fact-find, it seems that his
income requirements to meet his basic monthly expenditure was not that high  for example
he didnt have a mortgage or other debts to service. I can see that at some point during the
course of the complaint Mr N told Towergate that he used the cash lump sum from his
pension to pay off his mortgage. But this wasnt the case  Mr N later clarified matters and
said that hed paid off his mortgage from his redundancy payment.
So given this and because Mr N still had some savings to fall back on, I dont think his
budget was under significant pressure. Indeed Mr N has told us that he was fit for work and
was actively seeking employment. He says he was not concerned about money or making
ends meets at the time because his mortgage was paid off and he was looking for work.
But Towergate didnt try to understand this. Instead the advice paperwork paints what I think
is a confused and unclear picture about Mr Ns objectives - I think they appear at odds with
his circumstances at the time. As I referred to earlier it was recorded that Mr N was single
and had no dependents. Yet it is also recorded that his primary retirement planning priority
was the provision for a spouses and dependents pension without explaining why. And it also
appears that the basis of the discussion with the adviser and the apparent reason why Mr N
decided to proceed with the transfer against advice, was because lump sum death benefits
before retirement was an important consideration for him  again with no explanation as to
why.
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the
rules that were in place at the time were clear that Towergate had to act with due care and
skill and in Mr Ns best interests. And by not seeking to fully understand Mr Ns objectives
and what he was trying to achieve before carrying things out, Im not persuaded this was
acting in Mr Ns best interest. Ultimately, I dont think he was able to make an informed
choice here  it seems to me that Mr N most likely went ahead with the transfer as he
believed this was the only way to meet what he thought or was led to believe was his
objective. And also because I consider Towergate actually gave him a positive
recommendation to transfer out of the scheme, which in the circumstances I think wouldve
given Mr N the impression that Towergate agreed with this approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Towergate followed meant that Mr N can truly be regarded as an
insistent client. Towergates communications overall werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr
Ns best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
If Towergate had acted in Mr Ns best interests, providing a recommendation on the
suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, and addressing Mr Ns true
objectives at the time, I dont think Mr N wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr N was an experienced investor such that he
possessed the requisite knowledge or had the confidence to go against the advice he was
given. I think he relied on the advice and process Towergate employed. And despite the fact
that Mr N was unemployed at the time, hes told us that he wasnt concerned about his
situation, which I think is reasonable and supported by the evidence from the time.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account Im not
persuaded Mr N would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr N, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for Towergates failings. I consider Mr N would havemost likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct
process followed.
Towergate must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr N couldve taken his DB pension benefits without reduction at
age 60. So, I think compensation should be based on Mr N accessing his benefits at age 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance of the decision.
Towergate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr
Ns contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr N within 90 days of the date Towergate receives
notification of his acceptance of a final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of
90 days, that it takes Towergate to pay Mr N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Towergate Financial 
(East) Limited to pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr N any interest on that amount in full, as set out
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Towergate
Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr N any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Towergate Financial (East) Limited pays Mr N the balance. I would additionally recommend
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr N.
If Mr N accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Towergate 
Financial (East) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept a final
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman