DRN-2952878
The complaint
Mrs S complains Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly approved her for three loans. Mrs S says 
these loans were unaffordable to her.
What happened
Loans 2 Go approved Mrs S for the following three logbook loans:
Loan Date Amount Term (weeks) Repayments 
(weekly)
One December 2011 £1,257 (approx.) 78 £46 (approx.)
Two July 2013 £1,200 52 £52 (approx.)
Three August 2013 £4,000 100 £88 (approx..)
Mrs S says these loans were lent irresponsibly. She says the loans were unaffordable to her 
and caused her to suffer financial loss as result. Mrs S says she was struggling financially at 
the time the loans were approved; as well as struggling with her mental health. Mrs S also 
complains Loans 2 Go applied for CCJs and defaults against her. 
Our investigator recommended this complaint be upheld. He said:
Loans 2 Go had completed proportionate checks in relation to each of the loans;
The wage slips Mrs S had provided suggested she would be left with an insufficient 
amount of disposable income per month to meet the expenses of loan one. As such 
loan one was unaffordable;
The bank statements which Mrs S provided for loans two and three demonstrated 
that these loans were also unaffordable to her.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators opinion. In relation to loan one it says our 
investigator incorrectly calculated what Mrs Ss likely income wouldve been. It says had the 
investigator used a two month average it wouldve shown the loans were likely affordable.
In relation to loans two and three, Loans 2 Go said the information it was presented with did 
not show signs of financial difficulties; and therefore the loans appeared affordable to Mrs S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Loans 2 Go is aware it needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to    
Mrs S. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Loans 2 Go lent required it to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mrs Ss 
ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial 
difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Loans 2 Go to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Finally, the fact these loans were logbook loans, and thereby had the security of Mrs Ss car 
as an asset, in no way lessened Loans 2 Gos obligations in relation to the above checks.
Loans 2 Go says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks on each of the loans it 
provided Mrs S. In relation to loan one, Loans 2 Go completed an income and expenditure 
assessment, and verified this with two months worth of Mrs Ss payslips. The information 
Loans 2 Go obtained demonstrated that Mrs Ss average income would be around £1,200, 
and her monthly expenditure would be £880 (not including the repayment for the loan).     
Mrs S declared she had three children under 14 years old. The expenses that Loans 2 Go 
noted only covered Mrs Ss mortgage and living cost commitments. The expenditure form 
did not capture any details of Mrs Ss credit commitments; nor did Loans 2 Go complete a 
credit file search. 
For loan two, Loans 2 Go again obtained an income and expenditure from Mrs S; and this 
time verified this information via bank statements and payslips. The assessment Loans 2 Go 
completed showed Mrs Ss income had increased to approximately £1,600 with her 
expenses being listed as approximately £660 (not including the loan repayment).
Loan three had similar checks as loan two completed on it. That is to say Loans 2 Go 
completed an income and expenditure assessment; and verified this information with bank 
statements and payslips. Using this information Loans 2 Go calculated Mrs S would have an 
income of around £1,750 and expenses of £1,130. This would leave Mrs S with over £600 
disposable income to meet the expense of the loan. 
Ive carefully considered the information that Loans 2 Go provided at the time of each 
application; and Im satisfied proportionate checks were completed in each instance of the 
lending relationship with Mrs S. I say this because Loans 2 Go has sought to verify the 
information Mrs S had provided, using a combination of payslips and bank statements. This 
information gave Loans 2 Go enough insight into Mrs Ss financial circumstances to 
understand if any lending it provided to her would be sustainable. I can also see that as the 
lending relationship developed (and the value of the capital being advanced did), Loans 2 
Go obtained further information from Mrs S. As such Im satisfied the proportionality of the 
checks increased in line with the value of the capital being advanced.With that being said, Loans 2 Go was still required to carefully consider the information it 
was provided with prior to approving the loans. Completing proportionate checks themselves 
is not enough to demonstrate that a fair lending decision has been made.
Looking at loan one; Im not persuaded the information that Loans 2 Go gathered, suggested 
that Mrs S was in a position to sustainably repay it. As mentioned above the checks Loans 2 
Go completed demonstrated that if Mrs Ss income was to be calculated at £1,200 per month 
then she would have a disposable income of approximately £120 after making her 
repayments. Loans 2 Go say using the two-month average of these two payslips was a 
reasonable approach to take. Ive considered this argument and I dont agree with it. 
The payslips which have been provided so that Mrs Ss income fluctuates between each 
month. For example, the two months payslips show a net income of £1,340 (approx.) and 
£1,060 (approx.). When considering this information Loans 2 Go is aware that on the months 
Mrs S income didnt match the average £1,200 then her outgoings would like exceed the 
income she had. And Loans 2 Go was aware that it was reasonable that this could occur  
as it had done so in the past. That persuades me that Mrs S was always going to be 
managing her finances to a very tight budget, and on some months probably a negative 
margin. Loans 2 Go is aware that any repayments needed to be sustainable to Mrs S; and 
Im satisfied the information provided did not demonstrate that was likely to be the case for 
Mrs S.
Even if I were to assume Mrs Ss income remained over £1,200 per month, Im still not 
persuaded that Loans 2 Gos decision to lend was fair. I say this because even on that 
estimation Mrs S would only be left with a disposable income of around £120 per month. 
Considering that Mrs S had declared she had three children under the age of 14 years old; 
and Loans 2 Go didnt have details of her credit commitments; Im not persuaded a margin of 
at most £120 was sufficient. Again, Loans 2 Go needed to ensure any payments were 
sustainable for Mrs S; and considering what Loans 2 Go knew about her at the time; I think it 
is reasonable that further likely expenses would occur, and question the sustainability of her 
finances.  
Moving on to loan two; again Im satisfied that although Loans 2 Go completed proportionate 
checks; it did not make a fair decision to lend. The information Loans 2 Go completed as 
part of its income and expenditure assessment suggested that Mrs S would be left with a 
round £700 disposable income each month. As Loans 2 Go is aware, the affordability 
assessment needs to be borrower focused; and that is not limited to just a pounds and 
pence assessment. 
Reviewing the statements that Loans 2 Go had at the time; its very doubtful Mrs S had the 
disposable income declared. Instead, looking at the statements it is clear Mrs S was 
managing her finances to a much tighter budget than the income and expenditure assessed. 
It is noticeable that Mrs S approaches her overdraft on multiple occasions; and has to rely on 
transferring money in from other sources to meet her outgoings. 
Mrs S has told us these transfers were from using short term lenders. Whilst those 
transaction seemingly dont appear on the statements Loans 2 Go obtained; Im satisfied the 
evidence it did have suggested an unsustainable pattern of maintaining her finances. Loans 
2 Go was aware Mrs S only had one source of declared income (her salary); and this was 
present in the statements it had. As such it is likely from the evidence Loans 2 Go had that 
Mrs S was having to borrow further to meet her outgoings. Without these transactions Mrs S 
wouldve been overdrawn and her outgoings exceeding her income. Im therefore satisfied 
Loans 2 Go had enough information to suggest this loan was unaffordable to Mrs S from the 
outset. It therefore acted unfairly in approving it.Moving onto Loan three. Loans 2 Go says the information it gathered did not show Mrs S 
was in financial difficulties and there was no evidence of Mrs S using other forms of credit to 
supplement her income. It therefore says it lent responsibly. Having reviewed the evidence 
Loans 2 Go gathered at the point of sale, I disagree with Loans 2 Go that it made a fair 
decision to lend.
Loan two was only in force for a short period before loan three was approved. As such      
Mrs Ss circumstances hadnt changed much in the intervening period. If anything, the 
information Loans 2 Go gathered demonstrated things had gotten worse for her.
The statements Loans 2 Go had collected showed that Mrs S was now entering her 
overdraft by significant amounts on multiple occasions. At one point she was more than 
£500 over drawn. When you consider the information Loans 2 Go had from loan two; Im 
persuaded that you can see a pattern of increased indebtedness forming. The lead up to 
loan two shows Mrs Ss finances were tight; and now by loan three they were beginning to 
break; leading her to a negative position.
I also disagree there was no evidence Mrs S was having to use other forms of credit. This is 
for the same reasons as above; namely that Loans 2 Go was aware Mrs S only had one 
source of income. The transactions into her account (which were for large amounts) could 
reasonably have been identified as other forms of credit. It is noticeable again that without 
these transfers in Mrs S would be in an even worse financial position. Mrs S has told us she 
was experiencing financial hardship at this point; and the evidence gives credence to that. I 
think Loans 2 Go oughtve reasonably come to the same conclusion based on the 
information it had; and therefore it follows it acted unfairly in approving the loan.
Putting things right
Mrs S has lost out financially because of the loans Loans 2 Go provided her, as she has had 
to pay additional interest and charges on these amounts. As such Loans 2 Go needs to put 
things right. 
In order for Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right I require it to:
Refund all interest, charges and fees which Mrs S paid and which applied to loans 
one, two and three;
Pay Mrs S 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse information on Mrs Ss credit file in relation to loan one, two 
and three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go Limited must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Loans 2 Go Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman