DRN-2459807
The complaint
Mr O believes that United National Bank Limited, trading as United Bank UK, didnt correctly 
calculate the amount of interest due at maturity on a fixed rate savings account.
What happened
Mr O invested £16,000 in a fixed rate saving account in February 2015. This account was 
advertised as attracting an interest rate of 3.02% AER and had a term of five years. The 
account matured in February 2020 with a final balance of £18,489.36. Mr O was unhappy 
with this amount as his own calculations demonstrated that the amount of interest paid was 
lower than it should be by £78.54.
Mr O made a complaint to United Bank, and they responded to Mr O in March 2020. United 
Bank pointed out that Mr Os own interest calculation was based on the premise that the 
interest on his account would be compounded annually. However, United Bank further 
explained that they dont compound interest on fixed deposits, and they highlighted the parts 
of the literature that they sent to Mr O about his account, and also the sections of their 
website, that explain this policy. Because of this, United Bank felt that they had calculated 
the interest correctly, and they didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators reviewed the case. 
But they agreed with United Bank position and so they didnt uphold the case either. Mr O 
wasnt happy with our investigators response and stated his belief that if an account is 
advertised as accruing interest on a compound basis  as an AER rate does  then it isnt 
fair that the account not provide such compound interest. Our investigator replied and 
advised Mr O that this represented a shift in the nature of his complaint, as he was now 
complaining that the account had been mis-advertised, rather than that interest calculation 
on the account was incorrect. 
Our investigator explained that our service can only consider complaints that a business has 
had the opportunity to respond to, and that because Mr Os complaint to United Bank had 
been about the interest calculation, and not initially about mis-advertising, this new aspect of 
his complaint would need to be raised as a new complaint with United Bank, and United 
Bank given the appropriate time to respond to it, before our service could consider it.
Mr O remained dissatisfied with our investigators response and asked that the matter be 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons. Specifically, Im satisfied that the interest calculation was undertaken on the correct 
basis for the account in question as per the terms and conditions of that account, for the 
reasons already explained by United Bank and also by our investigator.
Essentially  Mr O based his calculations on the understanding that United Bank would be 
compounding the interest on the account annually. But United Bank have explained that they 
dont do this on the account and have shown that this is explained in the relevant literature 
that was provided and made available to Mr O.
So, I dont think that United Bank has miscalculated the interest due here. But Mr O also 
thinks we should consider whether the account was wrongly advertised.
This specific complaint was part of his original complaint to United Bank or this service and 
United Bank will need to have an opportunity to respond to that before this service can 
consider it. This is in line with the rules that apply to this service. 
I note that Mr O has drawn reference to statements made by himself to this service that 
imply a complaint about mis-advertising. But it remains the case that this aspect of his 
complaint was not made to United Bank at the time of the initial complaint, which means that 
United Bank have not had the opportunity to respond to it. This means that our service cant 
consider this aspect of the complaint.
It follows, then, that because I agree that the interest calculation was correct in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, and because Im unable to consider any additional 
aspects of this complaint because United Bank havent had the opportunity to respond to 
those additional aspects, I wont be upholding this complaint or asking United Bank to take 
any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman