DRN-4271976
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the valuation of his car after it was deemed a total loss after a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his motor insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. 
When Advantage looked to settle the claim Mr G wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. 
Advantage looked to value Mr Gs car after it was written off by looking at two of the various 
trade valuation guides in order to gauge the market value of his car. It offered Mr G around 
£8,082 for his car (which was an average of the two guides) less the policy excess. But Mr G 
wasnt happy about this as he thought his car was worth more and had bought a similar 
model for around £9,600 so he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and upheld his complaint. He looked at the 
various motor trade valuation guides available for Mr Gs car from around the time of claim 
and thought that Advantage should pay slightly more for his car (£8,355.50). This was 
because he had got valuations from all four available valuation guides, as opposed to the 
two that Advantage used to value Mr Gs car, and the average of those was a few hundred 
pounds more.
Advantage accepted the investigators findings but Mr G didnt. He suggested that the bottom 
valuation guide should be excluded as it was so low compared to the other guides. And 
suggested that the evidence he provided of similar cars for sale to his, at a higher amount, 
should support this position. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand why the investigator has upheld Mr Gs complaint and 
increased the valuation which Advantage accepted. I know Mr G would like more and that he 
paid more for his replacement car, but I think the position suggested by the Investigator feels 
fair. Ill explain why.
Advantage only used two valuation guides in forming its view of the market value of Mr Gs 
car  indeed I note that it offered a lot less than this originally. And when our investigator 
looked into the position and gained a valuation from all four available guides he lifted the 
valuation to £8,355.50 based on an average of all four guides which Advantage agreed to. 
This Service has an established approach to valuation cases like Mr Gs. When looking at 
the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach they have 
adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade valuation guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any 
other evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the 
sale of similar cars. But I generally place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as 
the guides give an up-to-date estimate of the value of the car in question. The condition of 
the car at the time of the incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must 
emphasise that I will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
Valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Gs 
car. Im just looking to see if Advantage has acted reasonably in providing a fair market 
value of his car and I think its initial valuation was slightly low. 
In this case our investigator checked the trade valuation guides which provided valuations of 
Mr Gs car - £9,260, £8,345, £7,995 and £7,330. And in this instance Mr G provided some 
evidence that the advertisements he found were a lot higher and he bought his replacement 
car (similar age, make and model) for £9,600 after he had negotiated the price down. 
However, Ive looked at the adverts Mr G provided, and it is clear that the cars, in the main, 
had a lot less mileage than his. So, it is difficult to say he should be paid more for his car or 
that the market value suggested by the investigator isnt fair. And I know Mr G feels the 
lowest of the guides that Advantage used shouldnt be used as it is lower than the other 
guides. But as our investigator explained a similar argument could be made for the higher 
valuation guide, so on the whole I dont think the higher and lower of the guide valuations 
shouldnt be used here. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Advantage to pay Mr G £8,355.50. And it should add 8% simple interest for 
the time Mr G has been without the shortfall.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I agree this complaint should be upheld. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G £8355.50 and pay 8% simple interest 
on the shortfall from the date of initial payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman