DRN-4246748
The complaint
Miss K complains that LRUK (RETAIL) LIMITED trading as La Redoute (LRUK) 
irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In May 2020, Miss K applied for a credit account with LRUK. She was given an initial credit 
limit of £100. The credit limit was increased to £110 and then to £400, £430, £450, £480, 
£490, and £500. 
The increase to £400 was done following Miss K requesting an increased limit, and to £430 
when she placed orders that took the account balance over that credit limit. But the other 
increases were done automatically by LRUK so that interest and charges didnt take the 
account over its agreed credit limit. 
LRUK defaulted the account in September 2021 after it had received no contact or payments 
from Miss K for several months. 
In September 2022, Miss K complained to LRUK to say the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her and the credit limit increases shouldnt have been allowed because it wasnt 
affordable for her. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, because they didnt think LRUK 
had done anything wrong in offering the credit (including the limit increases) or in defaulting 
the account. 
Miss K disagreed. As such, Ive been asked to make a decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LRUK will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
think it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Initial lending decision
Prior to providing credit to Miss K, LRUK says it carried out a credit check. It said the results 
of this satisfied it that Miss K could afford a limit of £100. There isnt a set criterion for what a 
proportionate check ought to encompass. 
Given that  LRUK was proposing to give Miss K a modest credit limit of only £100 which 
required only small monthly repayments, I dont think it was necessary for it to verify Miss Ks 
income or ask about her other committed expenditure (beyond anything shown on the credit 
report).
Miss K says her credit score and history meant she shouldnt have been given this credit. 
But Ive not seen anything that would indicate the lending was unaffordable or that the 
decision to provide credit of up to £100 was irresponsible in May 2020.
Credit limit increase to £110
In October 2020 LRUK increased the credit limit to £110. It said it did this because Miss K 
missed her minimum payment that month, resulting in a late payment fee that took the 
balance beyond the £100 credit limit. This prevented adverse information having to be 
reported to credit reference agencies, which LRUK thought would be helpful to Miss K. 
I do not think this was a reasonable decision. That Miss K missed her payment could be an 
indication of financial difficulties, although in this case she made a payment shortly 
afterwards. So, I dont think that was the case here. But it does not seem appropriate to 
make more credit available to Miss K indefinitely in response to a missed payment on the 
account. 
Also, by increasing the credit limit, rather than reporting a missed payment to the credit 
reference agencies, it seems that the information LRUK reported to credit reference 
agencies was not a fair reflection of Miss Ks account management. 
Despite this, there appears to have been no loss caused by LRUKs decision. This is 
because Miss K did not make any additional purchases as a result of the limit increase, the 
limit increase did not delay when LRUK ultimately defaulted the account, and the late 
payment fees and interest added wouldve been the same (if not higher) had the limit not 
been increased.
Credit limit increase to £400 in March 2021
Miss K requested a credit limit increase in March 2021. LRUK agreed a new limit of £400 
based on Miss Ks management of her account alongside a credit check. This showed that 
Miss K had missed two payments in the previous 12 months. That she had opened some 
new credit accounts including one fixed term loan. This had increased her overall revolving 
account credit from £100 (on her LRUK account) to £1,960 by March 2021. In addition to this 
Miss K had fixed term loan repayments totalling £292 per month.
Other than the two missed payments, which appear to have been quickly rectified, Miss K 
appeared to be keeping her accounts up to date. She had taken out additional credit but her 
overall indebtedness and repayments did not appear at that stage to indicate a problem. The 
increase to her credit limit was relatively small. So, I dont think it was necessary for LRUK to verify Miss Ks income or ask about her other 
committed expenditure (outside of the credit commitments the credit check showed). 
Overall, I dont think LRUKs decision to increase the credit limit was unreasonable at that 
time. 
Credit limit increase to £430 in March 2021
LRUK says that Miss K placed orders on her account that would take her beyond the 
existing £400 credit limit. And that it decided to allow those orders to go ahead, increasing 
the credit limit to accommodate this. 
Given this was soon after Miss K had requested a credit limit increase, it didnt appear there 
had been any significant change in her circumstances and the additional amount of credit 
was small, I do not think this was an unreasonable decision. 
Credit limit increases from May 2021 to August 2021
LRUK increased the credit limit on the account as follows:
23-May-21 to £450
23-Jun-21 to £480
23-Jul-21 to £490
23-Aug-21 to £500
In each case the increase was as a result of interest and charges on the account taking it 
above the previous limit. 
I do not think these were reasonable decisions. That Miss K missed a payment could be an 
indication of financial difficulties. It does not seem appropriate to make more credit available 
to Miss K indefinitely in response to a missed payment on the account. 
Also, by increasing the credit limit, rather than reporting a missed payment to the credit 
reference agencies, it seems that the information LRUK reported to credit reference 
agencies was not a fair reflection of Miss Ks account management. 
During this time Miss K failed to make any payments to the account. Despite this, there 
appears to have been no loss caused by LRUKs decisions. This is because Miss K did not 
make any additional purchases as a result of the limit increase, the limit increase did not 
delay when LRUK ultimately defaulted the account, and the late payment fees and interest 
added wouldve been the same (if not higher) had the limit not been increased.
Summary
I have found that some of LRUKs lending decisions were not appropriate. However, I have 
also found that those decisions did not cause Miss K any loss or material distress and 
inconvenience. So, I make no award in this case, and do not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman