DRN-1569846
 
The complaint
Ms L says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.                         
Background
This complaint is about one instalment loan MYJAR provided to Ms L in March 2018. The 
loan was for £725 and was repaid over 12 monthly instalments of £111.87
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint and thought MYJARs checks for the loans 
went far enough. Ms L disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought MYJARs checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that she was struggling financially and had other 
borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Ms L about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £1,500. MYJAR also checked Ms Ls normal 
monthly living costs. Ms L declared these as £1,136 per month. MYJAR says it also 
searched Ms Ls credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any 
recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the 
time the loan was taken out. 
Ms L has also provided a copy of her credit report and this shows she was borrowing from 
other short-term lenders. But a lot of this borrowing doesnt show on the credit report findings 
MYJAR has provided. I can also see that Ms L took out several short-term loans after she 
took out the loan from MYJAR  so these wouldnt yet have shown up on any checks 
MYJAR would have done before it lent to Ms L. 
As this was the first loan Ms K had borrowed from MYJAR, she was very early on in her 
lending relationship with it. And even though she had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information she declared 
to MYJAR. And there wasnt anything in the information Ms L provided at the time which 
would have given MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have 
relied on what Ms L gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loan went 
far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Ms L declared to MYJAR at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about Ms L, 
I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information Ms L gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that MYJAR has done something wrong in lending Ms L this loan.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Ms L, but I hope my explanation will help 
her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint and make no award against MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman