DRN-3325385
The complaint
Mr E complains Zenith Insurance plc has treated him unfairly by avoiding his motorbike
insurance policy (that is, treating it as if it never existed) and turning down his claim.
What happened
Mr Es motorbike was stolen in March 2020, so he claimed on his motorbike insurance
policy.
At the time of the theft, Mr Es motorbike wasnt stored at his home address. Zenith said
Mr E hadnt disclosed this, either when he first took the policy out, or when he renewed it in
later years. Zenith said it wouldnt have offered Mr E cover if it had known this. So Zenith
said it was avoiding Mr Es policy  that is, treating it as if it never existed  and turning down
his claim.
Mr E said his motorbike was only stored away from his home in a locked garage for a few
months over winter when he wasnt using it. He said when he took out the policy he was
asked for a yes or no answer to a question about whether his motorbike was kept at his
home address overnight. He said he answered yes because it was kept there most of the
time.
When Mr E complained to Zenith about this, it didnt uphold his complaint about the
avoidance of his policy. But Zenith did offer Mr E compensation of £100 for poor
communication from its claims department. This was because Zenith didnt notify Mr E it had
avoided his policy and turned down his claim (which it did shortly after hed made it) until
some months later. And Mr E only found this out when, having bought a new motorbike and
insured it with Zenith through the same broker, Zenith told him it was cancelling the new
policy because he hadnt disclosed the theft claim or the first policy avoidance.
So Mr E brought his complaint about the avoidance of his first policy to us. The investigator
who looked at it upheld it. He didnt think Zenith shouldve avoided Mr Es policy. In brief, he
said Zenith should:
Reinstate Mr Es policy and consider his claim for the theft of his motorbike in line
with its terms and conditions.
Remove any record of the policy being avoided from its own and any external
records.
Pay Mr E £350 in total for the impact the avoidance of his policy had on him and for 
the poor customer service hed had.
Zenith accepted our investigators findings. And Mr E also accepted them in relation to the
avoidance of his policy. But Mr E didnt think the compensation our investigator awarded
him was adequate. Thats why Mr Es complaint came to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 25 January 2022 I explained why I intended, like our 
investigator, to uphold Mr Es complaint but also intended to award him compensation that 
differed from our investigators. Both Mr E and Zenith have given me comments on my 
decision, which has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. As well as compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, I am also awarding Mr E compensation for the loss of use of his
motorbike. I gave my reasons for this in my provisional decision, in which I said:
As Ive already noted, both Zenith and Mr E have already accepted our investigators view
on the avoidance of the policy. The law in this area is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It says that if there is a qualifying
misrepresentation, and an insurer wouldnt have entered into a contract if it had been given
the correct information, it can treat the policy as if it never existed and turn down all claims.
In this case, our investigator didnt think Mr E had made a qualifying misrepresentation. He
didnt think the question Zenith asked Mr E about storage of his motorbike when he took the
policy out was specific enough. Our investigator said if Zenith had wanted to know all the
places the motorbike would be kept, it shouldve asked Mr E this  or at least given him more
options than just yes or no to a question about whether his motorbike was stored at his
home address overnight. And since Mr E says his motorbike was stored at his home
overnight most of the time, our investigator thought hed taken reasonable care in answering
Zeniths question.
Like Zenith and Mr E, I agree that our investigators findings on the avoidance of the policy
are fair and reasonable. So, like him, I think Zenith should look at Mr Es claim in line with
the terms and conditions of his policy and remove all records of the policy avoidance from
internal and external databases. And I know Zenith has agreed to do this.
So the outstanding issue for me to look at in this decision is compensation. Our investigator
thought £350 was fair and reasonable compensation for the impact Zeniths failings had had
on Mr E. Mr E says until we look at settlements in the realm of thousands of pounds, rather
than hundreds, Zenith will continue what he describes as unacceptable business practice.
More recently, hes suggested we should set compensation on a daily basis rather than as a
fixed sum because this is an accurate reflection of the true impact of the case and, if
nothing else, will act as a deterrent from any further unwarranted delay from Zenith.
Our investigator has explained to Mr E that our role isnt to punish a business for its
mistakes. Thats a role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. And from what Mr E
has said, I think he understands this. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I should say we dont
fine a business or award punitive damages where we find its made a mistake.
Instead, when we look at whether its fair and reasonable to compensate a consumer for
distress and inconvenience following a mistake by a business, our role is to assess the
impact that mistake has had on that customer. To make an award, we need to see that the
impact is more than someone would expect to experience in everyday life. Our approach is
to look at all the circumstances and decide a total figure that attempts to put right  as far as
is possible  what went wrong. We dont usually make a specific award for someones time,
or calculate it using a set amount. But we do factor in the inconvenience someone may have
had spending time dealing with a matter.
Looking at what Mr E has told us about his experiences with Zenith after he found out hispolicy had been avoided, its clear he believes his health has suffered. Mr E says he fell ill
around two months after the problems with his policy came to light and he puts this down to
the intense pressure I was subjected to in two months leading up to my diagnosis. He says
not being able to go out on his motorbike has affected his mental well-being. He describes a
constant cloud of uncertainty and doubt. And he says: The complaint process is not
without strain. Researching options, seeking opinion and advice, generating this large
quantity of paperwork is mentally exhausting. It must also have been shocking for Mr E to
find out, months after hed made his claim, that not only had Zenith turned it down but also
his policy had been avoided.
What Ive just described only highlights some of the ways in which Mr E says Zeniths
failings have impacted him. From this  and also from everything else Mr E has described 
its clear Zeniths actions have caused Mr E considerable distress, upset and worry, as well
as significant inconvenience and disruption that has taken a lot of extra effort to sort out. In
these circumstances, I think the award our investigator made of £350 in total (that is,
including the £100 Zenith has already offered Mr E) is fair and reasonable and in line with
what Id expect a business to pay as compensation in the circumstances Mr E has
described.
Mr E has also told us the loss of use of his motorbike has had a severe impact on him. And
since this loss has flowed from Zenith avoiding Mr Es policy and turning down his claim, I
need to consider whether its fair and reasonable to award Mr E additional compensation for
this.
Mr E says the only alternative transport he had personally before he got his new motorbike
was a bicycle, which necessarily limited him to a local range. Mr E says hes been a keen
motorcyclist for many years and his motorbike represents freedom, adventure, challenge.
He says, without access to his motorbike, his contact with friends and family has been
minimal because hes had to rely on public transport. He says his day-to-day activities have
been reduced in scope, range and frequency.
Based on what Mr E has said, I think its fair and reasonable to award him compensation for
the loss of use of his motorbike and thats what I intend to do. On 23 March 2020, England
went into its first national lockdown due to Covid-19. Between then and 12 May 2020, people
were ordered to stay at home except for essential purposes such as shopping and to get
medical help. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award Mr E compensation
for the loss of use of his motorbike in this period. But from 13 May 2020, people were
permitted to leave home for outdoor recreation (beyond exercise). So from 13 May 2020
until 30 August 2020, when I believe Mr E insured his new motorbike, I intend to award him 
£10 a day for the loss of use of his motorbike. By my calculation, this amounts to £1,090.
Mr E has accepted my provisional decision but has made a number of comments on some of 
my findings. One of them is that, if I took 30 August 2020 as the start of the process and 
the end date was deemed to be Zenith's final acceptance and reversal of their actions on 
19th October 2021, the number of days would be a significantly higher number, 415 days. 
I appreciate it was only at the end of August 2020, when Mr Es policy on his new motorbike 
was cancelled, that Zenith told him it had treated his old policy on his stolen motorbike as if it 
never existed. But it is in the period from when Zenith shouldve told Mr E it was treating his 
policy as if it never existed and when it actually did so that I must look at his loss of use  
because thats the period in which things went wrong with that policy. The difficulties Mr E 
says he had after 30 August 2020 flow from the cancellation of the new policy and not from 
the avoidance of the old one  and it is the latter that Mr E has complained about here.Zenith doesnt agree with my provisional findings. It says Mr E didnt use his motorbike for 
parts of the year (December to March). It says it would only normally pay for loss of use if it 
couldnt provide a courtesy vehicle (which it says in Mr Es case his policy didnt entitle him 
to because his motorbike had been stolen). And finally Zenith says Mr Es annual mileage 
was between 2000 to 3000 miles so it doesnt think Mr E used the motorbike frequently 
enough to warrant £10 a day for loss of use.
Zeniths comments dont change my provisional findings on this complaint, which now form 
part of this final decision. It was in the winter months that Mr E says his motorbike was in 
storage whereas the period for which Im awarding him compensation for loss of use is in the 
late spring and summer. Its our approach to consider loss of use whenever were satisfied 
an insurers actions have resulted in a consumer not being able to use his or her vehicle. In          
Mr Es case, Im satisfied Zeniths actions deprived him of the use of his motorbike, for the 
reasons Ive given. And I see no reason to depart from an award of £10 a day. Mr Es low 
mileage might suggest he didnt ride his motorbike every day, but Zeniths actions meant he 
didnt have the freedom to ride it when he wished to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct Zenith Insurance plc to:
Reinstate Mr Es policy and consider his claim for the theft of his motorbike in line
with its terms and conditions.
Remove any record of the policy being avoided from its own and any external
records.
Pay Mr E £350 in total in compensation for the impact the avoidance of his policy had 
on him and for the poor customer service hed had.
Pay Mr E £10 per day in compensation for the loss of use of his motorbike from 13 
May 2020 to 30 August 2020.
Zenith Insurance plc must pay the compensation Ive set out above within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman