DRN-2310975
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how Santander UK Plc dealt with an application for an account 
to be put in joint names and about incorrect information they were given by it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H say they needed an account to be in joint names to allow an investment bond 
in joint names to be paid into it. They say they asked Santander what they needed to do and 
were told to attend a branch, which they did, but were told they needed to make an 
appointment. Mr and Mrs H say that meant a wasted journey and also asked Santander for 
an account statement which they attended a branch for. But were not given what they asked 
for and could not print out a joint account statement which the investment company needed. 
In summary they say there were wasted visits to a branch, and they should receive £250 
compensation and would like Santander to look at its staff training.
Santander accepts it should have told Mr and Mrs H they needed an appointment and has 
paid them £50 compensation. It says it couldnt provide a joint statement as Mrs H had just 
been added to the account, but it did provide a letter confirming the account status.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to us and say the investment bond company wouldnt 
accept the letter and Santander ought to have considered the amount of the payment 
intended to be paid into the account. Our investigator thought even if Mr and Mrs H had 
been given the correct information, then a visit to the branch was needed to open the 
account and it was Mr Hs choice to attend the branch to obtain evidence the account was 
joint. The investigator thought Mr and Mrs H ought to have considered in advance of the 
payment that the account would need to be in joint names and overall thought the 
compensation fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H dont accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Santander has paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I accept that Mr and Mrs H were given incorrect information that they could attend a branch 
without an appointment for the account to be made joint. I also accept that the first journey 
was unnecessary, and I have no doubt Mr and Mrs H were caused inconvenience. But I also 
accept that if Santander had given the correct information, that an appointment was needed 
at branch, that Mr and Mrs H would still have needed to have attended a branch. So, I find 
that only the first trip was wasted. 
Im satisfied that Santander has accepted Mr and Mrs H suffered inconvenience and has 
paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for that part of the 
complaint. I dont think that mistake was significant and did not for example result in a 
financial loss, save for the costs in attending a branch. So, for those reasons I cant fairly 
order Santander to increase that award.
I find that it was Mr Hs decision to attend a branch to obtain evidence that the account was 
now joint. And although he was told it would be in the form of a statement, I think even if he 
had been told it would be in the form of a letter, he would still have attended the branch. I 
think Santander fairly explained why it couldnt produce a joint statement but fairly provided a 
letter confirming the account was now joint. I appreciate that the investment company didnt 
accept that document but that is not something I can fairly hold Santander responsible for. 
And I also think that Mr and Mrs H ought to have considered in advance of the payment from 
the investment company what they needed to do to satisfy it that the payment could be paid 
into a certain type of account and what the companys requirements were.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H say that Santander ought to look at its staff training but that is not 
something I can fairly interfere in or comment on.
Overall, I find that Santanders mistake resulted in one wasted journey to a branch, but the 
compensation paid fairly reflects that. I dont find Santander responsible for any other 
journeys or for the requirements of the investment company and I dont think it matters or is 
relevant what the payment amount was.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman