DRN-2696192
The complaint
Mr B complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) decision to 
decline his claim under his contents insurance. He wants LV to settle his claim.
What happened
Mr B made a claim against his contents insurance following a theft at his flat. LV looked into 
the claim and declined it on the basis that Mr B was in breach of a security endorsement set 
out in his policy. Mr B complained and LV said the information they had led them to conclude 
Mr B had left his flat door unlocked. So, they agreed with the decision to decline his claim 
and didnt uphold his complaint.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She thought LV hadnt acted unfairly in declining 
the claim. Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Bs home contents insurance policy documents. This sets out the 
terms and conditions and says, under the heading Security requirements:  
This policy will only provide cover for theft or attempted theft if the following
security is put into operation whenever your home is left unattended:
External doors must have one of the following:
 Mortice deadlocks with at least 5 levers
 Locks to a minimum rating of BS3621 (this can be found on the lock)
 Double glazed doors with a 3 point locking system
 Existing locks plus key operated security devices fitted top and bottom
LV decline Mr Bs claim on the basis he breached this condition. They say they can only 
conclude he left his front door unlocked while his flat was unattended. Mr B disputes this and 
says LV havent acted fairly as he believes someone has interfered with his front door lock. 
So, Ive looked at how LV have reached their decision and whether they have acted fairly 
and reasonably.   
Insurers often appoint loss adjusters experienced in this type of work to investigate a claim, 
and thats what LV did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for LV to rely on the 
loss adjusters comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. 
LV instruct a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster  who Ill refer to as 
company Q  visit Mr Bs flat to carry out an inspection and then prepare a report. The report 
says company Q noted Mr Bs flat has a BS3621 cylinder lock to the front door. They said 
there was no sign of forcible and violent entry. They also found that, although Mr Bs flat has 
a balcony, hes on the fourth floor of the building so it was unlikely anyone was able to gain 
access this way. They recommend the claim is declined on the basis there hasnt been 
compliance with the policy endorsement relating to the security requirements.    
 
Mr B maintains that he always locks his front door and he has three keys  all of which are in 
his possession. So LV agree to look into the claim further and request a copy of the police 
report. Ive looked at the police report and this says NO SIGNS OF FORCED ENTRY and 
NO DAMAGE TO DOORS OR WINDOWS. The police report also says theres no known 
CCTV and no witnesses. And, it says no suspect has been identified. The police report says 
the crime has been investigated as far as reasonably possible and the case closed until 
further investigative opportunities become available. From the information Ive seen, theres 
no evidence the police looked into this further.     
LV then arrange for a lock specialist  who Ill refer to as company M  to look at the 
possibility of someone gaining entry into Mr Bs flat without causing damage and without the 
use of a key. Company M inspect Mr Bs flat and note there are no signs of forced entry to 
the front door or the lock. They say they couldnt see any way for someone to gain entry to 
the flat without causing any damage to either the door itself or the lock. They say, given that 
there are no keys missing, the flat door must have been left unlocked.    
   
I can see LV have investigated the claim and used appropriate experts to prepare reports to 
assist the investigation. Company Q and company M have both inspected Mr Bs flat door 
and the lock and not found any evidence of forced entry or anything to suggest someone has 
interfered with the lock. I think the information both companies have considered is relevant to 
carry out an assessment and to then form an opinion. Their findings are also supported by 
the police report. So, taking this all into account, I cant say LV have acted unfairly in relying 
on the various reports to assess Mr Bs claim. I note Mr B has raised a number of points 
questioning the findings in the reports. I have considered those comments but nothing I have 
seen challenges, or otherwise leads me to doubt, the opinion of the experts provided by LV. 
Mr B says the police never attended at his flat and, had they done so, the investigation 
outcome wouldve been different. I cant comment on the polices handling of Mr Bs crime 
report but, even if they didnt attend, this doesnt change my decision. I say this because LV 
have relied on two reports from experts who did attend Mr Bs flat and carried out an 
inspection of his door and lock. 
I can see Mr B feels one possible explanation for the entry into his flat without damage to the 
door or lock is that the thieves used a bump key. My understanding is that these are 
specially cut keys that can bypass the security mechanisms built into traditional locks. I can 
see LV dont believe this to be the case as the lock specialist says it is not possible to gain 
entry to the type of locks Mr B has without a key or causing damage to the locking 
mechanism itself or the front door. I dont think its unreasonable for LV to take this view and 
Ive seen no evidence which suggest a bump key was used.     
Mr B has my sympathy as I can see from his correspondence this has been a very upsetting 
event for him. Mr B has made a list of items which he says were taken from his flat and Im 
very sorry to learn about how much was taken and the impact on him. My role is to decide 
whether LV have acted fairly and reasonably. I think LV reached their decision on the claim 
in a fair and reasonable manner. Given the evidence LV have taken into consideration, I 
dont think it was unfair for them to decline Mr Bs claim based on their view that there has 
been a breach of the policy endorsement which forms part of the terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman