DRN-1840716
 
The complaint
 Mrs H has complained about the loans she took out with Skyline Direct Limited (Skyline). 
She says the loans were unaffordable.
 What happened
 Mrs H took 15 loans from Skyline between May 2013 and February 2016. Each of these 
loans was due to be repaid over a period 30 weeks. Some loans were repaid early. The last 
two loans are still outstanding. Some of the information Skyline provided about Mrs Hs 
borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Highest repayment
122/05/2013 04/12/2013 30 £400.00 £20.00 £20.00
207/08/2013 19/03/2014 30 £500.00 £25.00 £45.00
307/08/2013 12/02/2014 30 £500.00 £25.00 £70.00
412/02/2014 20/08/2014 30 £500.00 £25.00 £50.00
519/03/2014 20/08/2014 30 £300.00 £15.00 £40.00
625/07/2014 20/08/2014 30 £300.00 £15.00 £55.00
703/09/2014 18/02/2015 30 £500.00 £25.00 £25.00
822/10/2014 01/04/2015 30 £400.00 £20.00 £45.00
918/02/2015 27/05/2015 30 £500.00 £25.00 £45.00
10 15/04/2015 27/05/2015 30 £250.00 £13.00 £38.00
11 03/06/2015 11/11/2015 30 £500.00 £25.00 £25.00
12 15/07/2015 14/10/2015 30 £300.00 £15.00 £40.00
13 21/10/2015 06/01/2016 30 £500.00 £25.00 £50.00
14 09/12/2015 outstanding 30 £200.00 £10.00 £35.0015 10/02/2016 outstanding 30 £700.00 £35.00 £45.00
* The highest repayment figure is sometimes made up of multiple payments and is the 
largest repayment Mrs H would have to make over the term of the loan.
Our adjudicator recommended Mrs Hs complaint be upheld from loans 6 onwards. She felt 
that the overall pattern of borrowing suggested Mrs H had become reliant on home credit 
loans.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 April 2020 upholding the complaint from loan 7 
onwards. Mrs H accepted my provisional decision. Skyline did not accept my decision and 
provided new details of start and end dates of loans (which are shown in the table above).
The legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Skyline gave Mrs H loans 6 to 15 after the regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees 
had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 
2014. Skyline initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit before it went 
on to successfully apply for authorisation. Skylines interim permission to provide 
consumer credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA 
rules and regulations from 1 April 2014. 
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 
2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as Skyline. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible 
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a 
regulated agreement.
In its response to the view, Skyline has largely referred to CONC 5.2A and its subsections  
but these rules are not relevant in this case as CONC 5.2A did not come in to force until 
November 2018.
The starting point for the relevant rules is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets out what a 
lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer a loan of this type. It says a firm 
must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of 
which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, 
to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, 
for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the 
customer.The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted 
and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay 
the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet 
repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 
5.3.1G(4) states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful 
in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to 
the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of 
all firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which Skyline is part of. This letter 
was published sometime after Mrs Hs agreements were entered into. But given that this 
letter didnt include any new rules and deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints 
about whether their previous lending was unaffordable, I do think that it offers some insight 
on the FCAs perspective on the rules. So I do consider it to be of some relevance in this 
case.
The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to 
consumers and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its 
view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we 
analysed their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of information 
and data, including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of complaints, and 
findings from the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which 
involved issuing a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across 
the High Cost Lenders portfolio:a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may 
not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the 
letter. The section entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in 
the portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can 
better understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and firms. 
This work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, 
firms marketing strategies for offering additional credit and the costs of relending for 
consumers.
We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of 
this work, we will proactively engage with home-collected credit firms to ensure they 
understand our expectations. We will also discuss any changes to their processes as a 
result of the new rules and guidance on relending which we issued in our December 2018 
Policy Statement on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these firms in 
assessing affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit customers 
finances are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and low financial 
resilience. Nevertheless, firms must ensure that they are complying with all our 
affordability requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the Dear CEO letter 
we sent to HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms, the 
main principles are relevant to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled Complaints it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about 
many of the products in this portfolio. Firms should ensure that they are handling 
complaints appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including analysing 
the root causes of complaints and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman Services 
relevant decisions. We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-
handling procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This 
is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
Turning to the Dear CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, the third paragraph 
of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of determinations 
of individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues raised 
in those complaints (see: https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm).
If relevant, firms should take these examples of determinations into account as part 
of establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were 
flagged in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we 
were concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on HCSTC 
that is harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability assessments were key 
to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making 
responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered Skylines response to my provisional decision, along with all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Whilst I havent referred to all the points raised by Skyline below, I have considered them all 
and addressed those points that I consider material to the outcome of the complaint. That 
said; many of the points raised were already addressed in detail in my provisional decision.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and law, I think the overarching questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Skyline, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs H would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have shown that Mrs H wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Skyline ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Hs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further loans?
Did Skyline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Skyline did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs H and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Skyline, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs H would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. Certain factors might point to the fact that Skyline should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, 
but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that ongoing use of 
these loans may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Skyline considers its checks were proportionate. It told us that as part of the affordability 
assessment, its representative visited the customers home (having obtained permission with 
24 hours notice) and carried out a detailed income and expenditure assessment. It referred 
any previous payment history to identify any significant risk indicators. It also completed a 
pre-contract process, which included the amount of money the customer received, the 
amount to be repaid and the number and value of repayments, as well as a completed loan 
agreement. Skyline said Mrs H had to confirm and sign the various documents.
Skyline has provided some information about what Mrs H's declared about her income and 
expenses from loan 9 onwards. I havent seen that information for loans 6-8, but in any 
event, I think Skyline should have been doing more than what it told us it did do at least by 
the time Mrs H took out loan 6. To be clear, I dont think the checks it did from loan 9 
onwards were enough either.
By this point Skyline should have done more than rely on the information Mrs H was 
providing about her finances. I think it should have taken steps at that time to have verified 
Mrs Hs true financial position. 
Skyline already had an established lending history with Mrs H by the time it provided loan 6. 
In these circumstances I think Skylines checks for loan 6 (as well as the subsequent ones) 
ought to have built upon what it clearly knew about Mrs H from her earlier borrowing. That is 
to say, to remain proportionate, Skylines affordability checks needed to evolve and take into 
account what it was learning as a result of earlier applications. 
I also think that Mrs Hs borrowing history itself suggested there was a reasonable prospect 
the information she provided was inaccurate. For example, on loan 9 (the first loan where I 
can see it asked for Mrs Hs income and expenses) I think it ought to have been apparent to 
Skyline that Mrs H did not really have a weekly disposable income of £255. if it had been it 
seems unlikely she would need to borrow a loan that amounted to less than two weeks 
disposable income? And, in these circumstances, I think that Skyline ought to have taken 
steps to verify the accuracy of the information. Skyline will also be aware that while Mrs H did sign the declarations, it shouldnt have 
proceeded with loan applications where it ought reasonably to have suspected that the 
information provided was inaccurate. And, in this case, I think that Skyline also ought to have 
questioned just why it was Mrs H wanted or needed a seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth loan and 
beyond  at very high interest rates - if she genuinely had the levels of disposable income 
declared. Given Skylines obligations, I consider it fair, reasonable and proportionate for it to 
have taken further steps to ascertain that this genuinely was the case, by the time of loan 6 
and for the subsequent ones.  It could have done this independently or by asking Mrs H to 
provide supporting evidence such as payslips, utility bills, or bank statements. I dont think 
Skylines checks achieved this. 
I say this while also mindful of the fact that the various rules and regulations in place at the 
time Skyline was lending to Mrs H also make it clear that where income and expenditure is 
used in an affordability assessment, it may not be proportionate to rely solely on a statement 
of these matters made by the borrower.       
To help us understand for ourselves what Skyline would more likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks before providing these 
loans, we would normally ask Mrs H for her bank statements. But Mrs H does not have any 
bank statements. However, I dont think I need to recreate individual, proportionate 
affordability checks for loans 6 to 15 in this case. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Skyline ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Hs indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mrs H by 
Skyline, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and what 
unfolded during the course of Mrs Hs lending history with Skyline. This is because, there 
may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Looking at the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my decision, 
Skyline was required to establish whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
Similarly, repaying a loan early does not automatically mean the consumer is repaying the 
loan in a sustainable way. This is because CONC defines sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
The adjudicator considered this point was reached by loan 6. I explained why in my 
provisional decision I didnt agree. I said in my provisional decision that there were some 
warning signs that Skyline ought to have been alert to but I dont think that Skyline ought to 
have concluded that the pattern of lending had, in itself, become demonstrably 
unsustainable or harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the facts spoke for 
themselves by loan 6. I explained that this was because the lending and highest repayment (taking into account any overlapping loans) had actually decreased when loans 5 and 6 were 
taken out when compared to earlier loans. 
However, I reached this conclusion based on the facts about the start and end dates of the 
loans I had before me at the time. Since then Skyline has provided start and dates which 
contradict this conclusion.
For this reason, I have reviewed my decision. Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs 
case and the new information that has come to light, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Skyline ought to have realised Mrs H was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs H had taken out 6 loans within 14 months and Mrs H had 
been continuously indebted to Skyline for the entire time. Bearing in mind Mrs Hs 
initial loan should have been repaid over 30 weeks (just over 6 months) and her 
indebtedness to Skyline should, to all intent and purpose, have been discharged at 
this point, Skyline ought to have realised there was a strong possibility Mrs H was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole her loan payments was leaving in her 
finances and that Mrs Hs indebtedness  may have been increasing unsustainably.
 
Mrs Hs first loan was for £400 and loan 6 was for £300 but was taken out whilst 
loans 4 (for £500) and 5 (for £300) were still outstanding. At this stage, Mrs Hs 
weekly payment was almost three times what it was for loan 1. It was the second 
highest payment* she had made and the second time she had three overlapping 
loans. At this point Skyline ought to have known that Mrs H was not likely borrowing 
to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
From loan 6 onwards Mrs H was provided with a new loan whilst still having previous 
loans outstanding. There was a 14 day between loan 6 and 7 but I dont consider this 
gap to be significant. There would not have been many (if any) pay cycles during this 
time. It is important to note that the overall lending had already been going on for 
almost 16 months by this point.
 
Mrs H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Skyline. Loan 15 was 
taken out nearly three years after Mrs Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mrs H 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt (which had increased) 
to Skyline over an extended period.
*I note loan 3 had a higher weekly payment (when looking at overlapping loans 1 and 2) but 
this was very early on in the lending relationship, so I dont think that Skyline ought to have 
concluded that the pattern of lending had, in itself, become demonstrably unsustainable or 
harmful at this point.
Skyline has referred to the FCAs High-cost Credit Review (CP 18/43) and whilst the review 
highlighted that those who use home credit over longer period do not appear to suffer 
significant harm in the same way as other parts of the high cost credit markets, it does not 
follow that users of home credit never suffer any financial distress. Indeed, the review also 
highlights that:
there are existing controls that reduce the risk of unaffordable debt and financial distress. 
These include that: Firms must assess creditworthiness (including affordability) before agreeing any new 
loan, or any significant increase in credit.
 
Firms also have to monitor consumers repayment patterns to identify signs of 
financial distress. They must take appropriate action where there are signs of actual 
or possible repayment difficulties.
 
Firms must also not encourage a customer to refinance where the commitments are 
not sustainable or are not in the customers best interests, or do so without the 
customers consent/request.
 
Ive already explained, in some detail, in this decision why I think that Skylines 
creditworthiness assessments werent fair, reasonable and proportionate and therefore 
werent effective.
And the consultation paper CP 18/12 section 3.14 states that
 we are concerned that there is a small core of customers who are using home-
collected credit over an extended period and that some customers are being unduly 
influenced by firms representatives to keep borrowing.
So, while I acknowledge that the FCA has said that repeat lending wont always lead to an 
unfair outcome for consumers, I dont think that the FCAs publications support the 
assumption that repeat lending (where home-collected credit is concerned) will always be 
fair reasonable and proportionate in all circumstances.
It is worth adding that while I dont consider that my findings are inconsistent with the content 
of the FCAs publications, I am, in any event, required to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs case.  
In this particular case, Mrs H was in debt to Skyline for almost three years. This lack of any 
real breaks in Mrs Hs indebtedness leads me to think that it ought to have been apparent to 
Skyline that Mrs H was unlikely to have been using these loans as a useful means of 
managing cyclical income shortfalls  especially as the loan amounts and total repayments 
across overlapping loans increased substantially by the end of the relationship. 
Mrs Hs pattern of consistently settling loans with funds from later ones was indicative of a 
customer whose debt had become unsustainable. And Skyline continuing to provide Mrs H 
with loans in this way, meant that she was paying Skyline high amounts of interest for the 
privilege of it allowing her to continue to delay dealing with her unsustainable debt.
Did Skyline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that 
leads me to conclude Skyline acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other 
way.
Did Mrs H lose out as a result of Skylines shortcomings in relation to the loans from loan 6 
onwards?
I think that Mrs H suffered adverse consequences as a result of Skyline unfairly giving her 
loans 6 to 15. I say this because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness to Skyline by 
allowing her to take very expensive credit over an unbroken and extended period of time and the financial loss arising (by way of interest and charges on loans she 
shouldnt have been given) has unfairly exacerbated what was already an adverse 
and precarious financial position for Mrs H.
 
The number of loans and length of time they were taken over is likely to have had 
implications for Mrs Hs ability to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence 
of these loans on Mrs Hs credit file the less likely Mrs H was able to rehabilitate her 
finances and regain access to mainstream credit.
Fair compensation  what Skyline needs to do to put things right for Mrs H
Skyline shouldnt have given Mrs H loans 6-15. To put things right Skyline should:
 
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans.
 
B. calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H which were 
considered as part of A calculated from the date Mrs H originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Skyline may if it chooses to use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which it 
has written-off. Mrs H was unable to repay loans 14 and 15 in full.
 
D. Pay any remaining refund to Mrs H. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for Skyline to pursue 
this further.
 
E. The overall pattern of Mrs H's borrowing for loans 6-15 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Skyline should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs H's credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyline to deduct tax from this interest. Skyline should 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im partially upholding 
Mrs Hs complaint and direct Skyline Direct Limited (Skyline) to pay compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman