DRN-3127986
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the hire agreement he received from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS). 
What happened
In June 2016, Mr K was supplied with a new van through a hire agreement with VWFS. Mr K 
paid an advance rental of £1,750, and the agreement was for 48 months, with 47 monthly 
rental payments of £221.98; and a final rental of £6,179.94. At the end of the agreement, Mr 
K entered into a secondary hire period, where he continued to keep the van, and paid an 
annual rental payment of £580.95 plus VAT.
Mr K complained to VWFS that theyd given him a lease agreement, and not a hire purchase 
agreement. Which meant that hed never own the van. But VWFS didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong, so Mr K brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator thought it was clear that the agreement Mr K signed was a hire agreement, 
and not a hire purchase agreement. And nothing in that agreement said that Mr K would own 
the van at the end. So he didnt think that the agreement was misleading in any way.
The investigator also said that VWFS acted reasonably by charging Mr K a reduced rental 
payment after the agreement ended, because hed entered into a secondary hiring period, 
and continued to use the van. So he didnt think that VWFS needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he was mis-sold the van, as he was told 
from the start agreement is for 48 months with a final payment. He said that a normal 
person wouldnt know the difference between a hire agreement and a hire purchase 
agreement, and he considers that this is fraud.
Mr K has also said that the reference on the paperwork to a secondary hire agreement not 
applying is misleading. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr K was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr K signed on 18 June 2016. This clearly says it is a 
Hire Agreement and goes on to explain that the payments are rentals. The language used 
on this agreement clearly refers to Mr K hiring the van. And theres no reference to interest 
rates or interest being charged, which would be expected if Mr K was financing the purchase 
of the van. Additionally, theres nothing within the agreement that says Mr K will own the van 
at the end of the hire period, or that he has the option to buy the van.
In letters dated 26 February, 27 April and 26 May 2020, VWFS told Mr K that his lease 
agreement was coming to an end on 25 June 2020, and he needed to let them know what 
he intended to do. They explained that he could part-exchange or sell the van, as per the 
agreement. But if he didnt, and he kept the van, then then the final rental payment would be 
collected, and he would be entered into a secondary hire agreement where he would be 
charged an annual payment of £580.95 plus VAT. Ive also seen that the right to sell the van 
or enter into a secondary hire agreement is covered in the terms and conditions Mr K agreed 
to in June 2016. 
Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr K shouldve been reasonably aware of the type of 
agreement hed entered into, and what this meant would happen when the agreement came 
to an end. And I dont think VWFS misrepresented the agreement as a hire purchase 
agreement  one where Mr K would own the van, or have the option to buy the van, at the 
end of the agreement.
Mr K has provided a copy of a key features document which explains the lender will remain 
the owner of the vehicle throughout the agreement. You will only become the owner of the 
vehicle at the end of the agreement when you have paid all the repayments and the option to 
purchase fee. However, this was document was provided by the supplying dealership, and 
not VWFS. 
This document also says it explains the key features of all of the products offered through 
the dealership  Personal Contract Purchase, Hire Purchase and Lease Purchase 
agreements. So it wasnt specific to the agreement Mr K had with VWFS; and the paragraph 
referenced above doesnt specifically refer to either VWFS or the type of agreement Mr K 
took out with them.
Having reviewed the paperwork supplied to Mr K by the dealer, independent of VWFS, I can 
understand why he feels the agreement may have been mis-sold to him. But Ive not seen 
anything to show me that VWFS misadvised him or misrepresented the nature of the 
agreement he took out. So I dont agree that VWFS mis-sold the agreement. And I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman