DRN-4309910
The complaint
Mr S complains TransUnion International UK Limited (TransUnion) have been reporting 
incorrect information on his credit report. 
What happened
Over several years Mr S has received demands to repay debts he says were nothing to do 
with him. Then when applying for credit with a third-party lender in 2022 he was provided a 
free credit check through TransUnion. It was at this stage, he says, he discovered his credit 
report had been merged with another individual who shared the same first name, last name, 
and date of birth as Mr S. 
To support this, Mr S says he was also told by a debt collection company in January 2023 
they had been given his contact details, incorrectly, by TransUnion. 
Mr S contacted TransUnion about this. TransUnion apologised and said Mr S credit report 
had been incorrectly merged with another individual, which theyd now corrected  they 
offered £150 in compensation and said they would consider any direct financial loss Mr S 
had experienced. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr S raised his concerns with our service.
An Investigator here reviewed matters and agreed TransUnion had acted unfairly. She said 
TransUnion had merged Mr S credit report with another individual who he had no 
connection to, so they should remove all incorrect data and pay compensation. The 
Investigator agreed this had a significant impact on Mr S, and as such her concluding view 
was TransUnion should pay £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
TransUnion didnt reply and Mr S didnt agree. In summary, he said TransUnion had been 
aware of this issue for three years so should be held accountable and have due diligence in 
place to prevent this from happening in future. He said hed spent over 100 hours resolving 
this and he should be compensated for his time, as well as the significant impact it had on 
his mental health over the years. Mr S also said TransUnion should be required to contact 
everyone theyd given incorrect information to and ensure his credit report was corrected. 
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the relevant industry rules 
and guidance, and what would be considered as good industry practice.
TransUnion has accepted there was information on Mr S credit report that shouldnt have 
been there and this was because of an error they made, merging Mr S details with another 
individual who wasnt connected to him. TransUnion have said this has since been fixed and 
Mr S credit report is now showing correctly. As such, Ive looked at the impact this has had 
on Mr S, to decide what would be fair compensation. 
In order to understand the impact, I asked Mr S for evidence about how the error has 
impacted him. I want to reassure Mr S this isnt in any way to lessen the impact this has had 
or catch him out. As the Investigator explained, our service is an independent organisation  
we dont act on behalf of either party  this means we need to take everything into account 
when considering how things should be put right. 
Mr S has raised concerns about how the error has affected his credit worthiness, in 
particular he says hes had credit limits reduced, which has meant hes had to change the 
way he lives day to day, and hes been unable to consider things such as car finance or 
mortgages. 
To show this hes provided correspondence from various third-party lenders who reduced his 
credit limit in 2022 and 2023. However, there are several reasons a lender may choose to 
reduce a limit and in order to hold TransUnion responsible Id need to see evidence the 
merged credit report was the sole reason Mr S credit was reduced  which isnt something 
Ive seen.
In addition, I understand Mr S says he was unable to consider car finance or a mortgage, as 
he expected hed be declined. But I can only consider what has actually happened  not 
what might have. 
I also asked Mr S for his comments about a letter addressed to him, sent in March 2020, 
from a third-party company, which said: 
There are two other credit reference agencies that operate within the United Kingdom who, 
may also have this incorrect link and you should also contact them
The letter then went on to name TransUnion, along with other credit reference agencies. 
Mr S said, at this point hed not heard of TransUnion and they hadnt been disclosed as the 
source of the incorrect information  he felt it was unreasonable for him to be expected to 
know a list of these. While I appreciate this, I do think the letter was clear in its instruction 
and Mr S might have been able to mitigate some of the impact, had he contacted 
TransUnion in March 2020, or soon after. 
The letter also highlighted other credit reference agencies appeared to hold incorrect 
information about Mr S too  so Im unable to conclude TransUnion are solely responsible 
for everything thats happened.  
Ive considered whether TransUnion could have resolved this error sooner  as Mr S says 
theyve known about it for three years. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest that was 
the case. It seems TransUnion were first made aware of the problem when Mr S told then 
about it in February 2023. From that point it took TransUnion around four months to correct 
Mr S credit report, which I think was too long to resolve the issue hed raised, so Ive taken 
this into account when considering how to put things right. 
While I dont think it would be fair to hold TransUnion responsible for everything thats 
happened here, Mr S has been inconvenienced, and thats, in part, as a result of 
TransUnions error. So he should be fairly compensated for that. Mr S has also said TransUnion should contact everyone thats accessed his report. But I 
wont be asking them to do this. I say this because, theres no way to know what companies 
have used, and relied on, the information TransUnion provided and nor would it be 
something theyd be able to do on his behalf. So, while frustrating, this will be something    
Mr S would need to raise directly with any future lenders. I would also generally expect 
future lenders to take into account information relevant at the time of any future application. 
But I have taken Mr S concerns about information prospective lenders may have seen into 
account when considering the amount of compensation that should be awarded.  
Mr S has explained, in detail, the stress this has caused him and the impact it has had on his 
mental health. When deciding on the amount of compensation that would fairly resolve 
matters, Ive taken this into account and the fact Mr S has been chased by debt collection 
agencies and has spent a lot of his time getting information from third parties. I was very 
sorry to hear of the difficulties both Mr S and his late Father have experienced. As our 
Investigator explained, were not able to consider any time Mr S Father spent on resolving 
matters because we can only consider the impact on the individual with the credit report  
but we can look at the overall impact on Mr S  which is what Ive done. 
Taking everything into account, I think £600 and the removal of all incorrect data from Mr S 
credit report, is fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied this 
amount is in line with the level of distress Mr S has suffered and within our award ranges for 
situations such as this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require TransUnion 
International UK Limited to:
Pay Mr S £600 compensation.
Correct any data wrongly applied to Mr S credit report, if not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Victoria Cheyne
Ombudsman