DRN-4302930
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC delayed giving consent to a second charge on his 
property. During the delays the second charge lender increased its interest rates and 
changed its lending criteria. He asks that Metro Bank capitalises his arrears, so that he can 
take out the second charge loan and consolidate his unsecured debts.
What happened
Mr S works in an industry that was badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. His mortgage 
with Metro Bank fell into arrears. Mr S says Metro Bank failed to offer support, and this was 
the subject of a previous complaint to this service.
Mr S says by mid-2022 he was in a position to address his mortgage arrears (of about 
£26,000 at that time) and unsecured debts (of about £130,000). After taking independent 
financial advice, he decided to take out a second charge loan to consolidate his debts. This 
would have reduced his monthly debt repayment costs by about £2,300.
Mr S says hell have access to a pension lump sum within four years which would be 
sufficient to clear the second charge loan, or he could look at re-mortgaging. He says 
currently hes paying significant interest on the unsecured loans, which means only a 
minimal amount goes towards reducing them.
In early September 2022 Mr S told Metro Bank what he intended to do. Metro Bank told him 
its policy is not to consent to second charge loans when a mortgage is in arrears. It said 
Mr S would have to clear the arrears first.
After Mr S complained, Metro Bank said it had wrongly given Mr S the impression it wouldnt 
consider his request and paid £100 towards his arrears. It said it would always consider 
requests of this type on an individual basis. Metro Bank said, having taken into account that 
Mr S had maintained payments for six months, that consolidating debt would reduce his 
monthly outgoings and that hed taken independent advice it would consent to the second 
charge. It said this was on the basis the mortgage arrears were repaid when the loan 
completed.
Mr S said there were further delays as Metro Bank didnt return the required forms to the 
second charge lender for two months. Mr S says the delays caused him financial loss. He 
said the second charge lender changed its criteria in late 2022 and said it would only lend if 
the mortgage arrears were cleared first. It also increased the interest rate substantially.
Mr Ss mortgage product expired in late November 2022. He cant take out a new product 
while he has mortgage arrears, meaning Metro Banks standard variable rate (SVR) is being 
applied to his mortgage. His contractual monthly payments increased from about £3,100 to 
about £4,200.
In December 2022 Mr S asked Metro Bank to capitalise his arrears so that he could take out 
the second charge loan and a new interest rate product. Metro Bank declined. It said 
capitalisation is a last resort and, as Mr S had said he intended to repay the arrears with a 
second charge loan, wasnt necessary here. Metro Bank also noted that Mr S had said his 
monthly payments while on the SVR were unaffordable, and capitalising arrears would 
increase Mr Ss monthly payments.
Our investigator said Metro Bank hadnt treated Mr S fairly. He said it should re-assess 
Mr Ss application to capitalise arrears. I sent a provisional decision in which I said I was 
inclined to agree with the investigators recommendation but needed more information and 
evidence from both parties. 
After both parties provided further information and evidence, I sent a second provisional 
decision. I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said I didnt think Metro 
Bank was solely responsible for delays or that this was the only reason the second charge 
lender didnt offer a loan to Mr S. And while I didnt think the reason Metro Bank had given 
for declining Mr Ss request to capitalise his arrears in late 2022 was fair, I thought it was 
unlikely it would have agreed to capitalise his arrears if it had considered Mr Ss request. 
Metro Bank agreed. Mr S didnt agree, and sent further comments and evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has referred a number of times to a previous complaint. This was resolved when our 
investigator issued a view in mid-2021 which upheld Mr Ss complaint that he hadnt been 
treated fairly and said Metro Bank should consider what tailored support it could offer. Our 
investigator said because of the complicated circumstances, Mr S should take advice and, 
having done so, contact Metro Bank to discuss the options available. Our investigator said if 
agreement was reached this should be backdated to when Mr S first asked Metro Bank for 
support. If agreement couldnt be reached and Mr S remained unhappy, our investigator said 
he could raise a further complaint.
Mr S has asked that we view this complaint as a continuation of his previous complaint. My 
colleagues have explained that we cant do that. I can consider whats happened since then.
The evidence here hasnt always been complete, clear or consistent. Ive asked the parties 
for further information and evidence. They havent always been able to provide this, but I 
think I have enough evidence to reach a fair decision. I should also explain that where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Ss income was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Metro Bank agreed payment 
deferrals from May to October 2020. After this, Mr S made payments which covered interest, 
but not the full contractual monthly payment. From early 2022 Mr S made payments of 
slightly more than the contractual monthly payment.
Mr S made proposals to Metro Bank between late 2021 and mid-2022 about what hed like 
to happen, such as switching permanently to interest only payments and capitalising his 
arrears. Metro Bank said it couldnt proceed with Mr Ss requests because he didnt provide 
the information it required from him. 
Mr S disputes this and says he sent Metro Bank both income and expenditure information 
and bank statements on two or three occasions. He says he cant provide evidence of this. 
Ive commented further on this issue below.By mid-2022 Mr S had taken independent financial advice. He says he was advised to take 
out a second charge loan and use the proceeds to clear the mortgage arrears and 
unsecured debts. This would have reduced Mr Ss monthly outgoings.
Metro Bank initially told Mr S it wouldnt consent to the second charge while his account was 
in arrears. After Mr S complained it confirmed it would consent. However, there were delays 
in the consent forms being returned to the second charge lender. 
Mr S provided an email from an intermediary advisor dated early December 2022. This said 
due to the delay in required paperwork being returned and market conditions the second 
charge lender wouldnt now lend until the mortgage account was brought up to date. 
Mr S wrote to Metro Bank in mid-December 2022 saying the second charge lender would 
now only lend if the mortgage arrears were cleared first. He attached a copy of the email 
from the adviser to support this. Mr S told Metro Bank he was worried that his arrears 
prevented him taking out a new product at a time of rising interest rates, which would make 
the mortgage less affordable. He asked that Metro Bank capitalise the arrears so that he 
could proceed with the second charge loan.
Metro Bank declined to capitalise the arrears. 
Mr Ss request for consent to the second charge loan
Metro Bank says while it made an error in its initial response to Mr Ss request for consent to 
a second charge loan, it then escalated the matter and provided consent on 29 September 
2022. It says it didnt realise it also needed to complete and return a questionnaire (referred 
to as a BSQ), and the broker didnt say this was missing until 1 November 2022. It says it 
provided the BSQ on 10 November 2022.
Metro Bank says if the parties were working to complete the second charge loan it would 
have expected the broker to chase it for the BSQ. We asked Mr S about this, and whether 
he could provide evidence of his broker chasing Metro Bank before 1 November 2022.
Mr S provided a copy of a letter dated 7 September 2022 addressed to Metro Bank which 
asks for information about the mortgage account (this is the BSQ). He provided his own 
email dated 1 November 2022 to Metro Bank attaching this. He provided the applicant 
authority form which was signed on 14 September 2022. And a message from his broker 
dated 26 September 2022 asking him to contact Metro Bank and confirm his authority to 
grant consent to the second charge loan as the broker hadnt had a response. 
Mr S provided a recent email from his broker which said they chased Metro Bank on 15 
September 2022 and were told there was a 10-day turnaround for the BSQ and consent, it 
received the consent from Metro Bank on 7 October 2022 and it chased Metro Bank for the 
BSQ on 1 November 2022. 
While Mr S said hed provide evidence that the broker chased Metro Bank for the BSQ 
between late September and 1 November 2022 he hasnt provided this. 
Mr S provided phone records showing he called Metro Bank three times in October 2022. 
Metro Banks records dont mention these calls or what was discussed. Its notes at that time 
refer to holding arrears contact as Mr S intended to clear the arrears with a second charge 
loan. The first mention of the BSQ in Metro Banks records is on 1 November 2022. 
While Mr S says the BSQ was sent with the request for consent to the second charge in 
early September 2022, its unclear that this was the case. Metro Banks records dont list the BSQ as one of the documents received with the request for consent to the second charge. 
Mr S says Metro Bank must have received the BSQ as it later returned it. However, Mr S 
sent the BSQ to Metro Bank on 1 November 2022. 
But even if Metro Bank did receive the BSQ before 1 November 2022, I dont think its fair to 
say that Metro Bank was solely responsible for the delays, or for the decision of the second 
charge lender not to lend while Mr Ss arrears remained outstanding.
First, I dont think I can fairly find the second charge lender would have provided the loan if 
Metro Bank hadnt caused delays. While Mr S says I can make this finding on the balance of 
probabilities, I dont think that would be fair. Mr S provided a decision in principle, but I 
havent seen an offer to lend from the second charge lender. There could have been other 
issues with the application. 
Second, if the BSQ had been the only matter outstanding Id have expected the broker and 
Mr S to have chased Metro Bank for it in October 2022. Theres no evidence they did do so. 
This suggests there could have been other reasons (or other outstanding documents) which 
meant the application to the second charge lender didnt progress more quickly.
Mr Ss request in December 2022 to capitalise his arrears
Mr S wrote to Metro Bank in mid-December 2022 saying the second charge lender would 
now only lend if the mortgage arrears were cleared first and asking it to agree to this.
I said in my first provisional decision that Metro Bank hadnt shown its decision not to 
capitalise Mr Ss arrears was reached fairly. The main reason it gave was that Mr S could 
clear the arrears with the proceeds of the second charge loan. However, Mr S had told Metro 
Bank this wasnt possible, because the second charge lender wouldnt lend while his arrears 
were outstanding. And while Mr S had said he was concerned about future interest rate rises 
while he was on the SVR, I didnt think it was fair for Metro Bank to interpret this as him 
saying the mortgage wasnt affordable and use this as a reason to decline his request to 
capitalise arrears.
However, both parties provided further comments and evidence. Im not persuaded that it 
was unfair for Metro Bank to decline to capitalise Mr Ss arrears in December 2022. This is 
for the following reasons.
Metro Bank says the income and expenditure information it received from Mr S in 
December 2022 showed a deficit position even before the mortgage went onto its SVR. 
Mr S disputes this, and refers to spread sheets he sent to Metro Bank in December 2022 
with income and expenditure scenarios. These spread sheets show a budget surplus if 
Metro Bank agreed to capitalise his arrears and he cleared his unsecured debts with a 
second charge loan. And a deficit if this didnt happen. 
Mr S says that mortgage payments would be affordable once hed taken out the second 
charge loan and repaid his unsecured debts. But Metro Bank couldnt have been certain that 
the second charge loan would be offered to him, even if it did capitalise the arrears. Mr S 
didnt provide a spread sheet for the scenario where his arrears were capitalised and his 
unsecured debts were not cleared by a second charge loan. But if his arrears were 
capitalised Mr Ss monthly payments would be higher. Based on the information Mr S 
provided I think it was reasonable for Metro Bank to say this would be unaffordable.
Mr S says clearing his arrears would mean he could take out a new fixed rate product, which 
would reduce his monthly payments. I dont know when Mr S would be able to take out a new product  this depends on Metro Banks policy. But its likely the products available in 
late 2022 and early 2023 had higher rates than Mr Ss previous product. 
Mr Ss spread sheet assumed hed take out a rate of about 5.75% after his arrears were 
capitalised, resulting in monthly payments of about £4,000. This appears affordable in his 
spread sheet as he assumes hed make monthly payments of about £1,000 for a second 
charge loan instead of about £3,500 for his unsecured debts. Metro Bank couldnt have been 
certain that the second charge loan would be offered to Mr S. 
Metro Bank says it didnt receive bank statements from Mr S previously, despite 
repeated requests. 
Metro Bank provided copies of letters requesting three months bank statements, from late 
2021 onwards, including a letter dated 3 March 2023. Metro Bank says it first received three 
months bank statements in May 2023, after my first provisional decision.
Metro Bank provided evidence it requested bank statements when Mr S asked it to capitalise 
his arrears in late 2021, and sent a reminder asking again when they werent received. 
Previously, Mr S disputed that bank statements were requested. More recently he said hes 
adamant these were provided on two or three occasions, but hes unable to provide 
evidence of this. 
I havent seen evidence that, before May 2023, Mr S provided bank statements when Metro 
Bank requested them. I dont think I can fairly find hed have done so if this had been 
requested in December 2022. And, if bank statements had been provided, they might not 
have evidenced that the CMP was affordable. Metro Bank says it still hasnt received 
evidence from Mr S to establish that his CMP is affordable.
Metro Bank says in January 2023 Mr S and his broker again requested consent to the 
second charge to enable him to repay his arrears  suggesting capitalisation wasnt his 
only option. 
Metro Bank didnt provide evidence of this request being made in January 2023, although it 
refers to it in its final response letter. Mr S recently provided an email from his broker saying 
they didnt request this in January 2023.
In response to my first provisional decision, Mr S provided an undated document which said 
there were three lenders willing to lend with a second charge on the property. He proposed 
increasing payments towards the arrears once the second charge loan was in place. This 
supported what Metro Bank had said, in that a second charge loan was an option for Mr S 
regardless of whether his arrears are capitalised.
Mr S has clarified that this was a reference to the position in March 2022, and these lenders 
are no longer willing to lend. He says capitalisation is now his only option.
This confusion about whether a second charge loan is currently an option for Mr S is 
unfortunate. However, given the issues with affordability, I dont think this makes Metro 
Banks decision not to capitalise Mr Ss arrears in late 2022 unfair. 
What should happen now?
I dont think Metro Bank was unfair when it didnt agree to capitalise Mr Ss arrears in 
December 2022. I think it was reasonable for it to assess payments as unaffordable based 
on the information Mr S provided. In the circumstances, there would have been little point in Metro Bank asking Mr S to provide the information it needed to consider the request, 
especially as he hadnt provided bank statements when it had requested them previously.
I appreciate that Mr S has limited options, and his position will have been made more difficult 
with interest rate rises. 
Its unclear if Mr S has taken recent advice from an independent financial adviser. If not, he 
might consider doing so. I assume its still Mr Ss intention to address his unsecured debts 
as well as the mortgage arrears. He might have different options compared to 12 months 
ago, and advice about the best options for him might now be different.
Mr S says Metro Bank made errors, including incorrectly saying it hadnt received 
documents. He says it hasnt yet explained what discrepancies its concerned about in the 
information he sent after my provisional decision. While I understand Mr Ss frustration, this 
doesnt itself make it fair and reasonable to require Metro Bank to capitalise his arrears. 
Im not saying here that Metro Bank shouldnt agree to capitalise Mr Ss arrears. This is 
something it should consider fairly and in accordance with its criteria and rules on mortgage 
regulation. But I dont think, based on the available evidence, its fair and reasonable for me 
to require Metro Bank to capitalise Mr Ss arrears. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
order Metro Bank to pay further compensation.
Metro Bank says parts of its process didnt run as smoothly as it hoped, and its 
communications havent always been as clear as they should have been. It says this in part 
reflects the complicated nature of the requests made by Mr S. It says it will fully consider 
Mr Ss request to capitalise arrears subject to receiving all the information it needs and 
resolving discrepancies. I think this is fair. 
This decision is the end of our process and I hope the parties will now engage directly with 
the aim of reaching agreement about how Mr Ss arrears will be addressed. Metro Bank will 
need to ask Mr S for the further information and evidence it needs to fairly consider his 
request to capitalise his arrears. I would encourage Mr S to engage with Metro Bank and 
provide the information and evidence it asks for.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman