DRN-3393530
The complaint
Mr H complains Trading 212 UK Limited made errors in selling shares he held in his share 
dealing account. He says this resulted in him suffering a financial loss because the sale was 
executed at a price not even remotely close to the sell price shown on the platform.
What happened
Mr H holds a Trading 212 dealing account and uses its service on an execution only basis. 
In May 2021, Mr H gave an instruction to sell shares he held in his account. His instruction 
was actioned as part of a market order meaning Trading 212 were required to sell at the best 
market price available. The trade was executed, and Mr Hs shares were sold. 
When Mr H saw the price the shares were sold at, he raised concerns about what he 
believed to be an error in the execution as the price he received was too low. Mr H said he 
gave the instruction on the basis of the indicative price that was displayed on Trading 121s 
platform. And while he understood there may be a small discrepancy, what he actually 
received was substantially less than the indicative price. Trading 212 told him that the order 
had been correctly executed. As his concerns werent satisfactory answered, Mr H raised a 
complaint with Trading 212.  
Trading 212 didnt uphold the complaint  in summary it said:
- Mr Hs order was executed in line with the terms and conditions of his account and 
his shares were sold at the best available market price.
- The type of order Mr H submitted does not guarantee a price at which it will execute, 
especially when markets are volatile. 
- It highlighted the relevant market risks to clients by posting a volatility warning. 
Mr H remained unhappy with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators considered the complaint. She didnt uphold it 
as she didnt agree that Trading 212 had executed the order incorrectly. She was satisfied 
that the data Trading 212 provided from the third-party agents it uses to complete the sale 
supported that it had executed at the best available price. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision on his complaint. He referred to the screenshot he provided showing an indicative 
buy price as this was the best evidence he had to support his case that the price he received 
was wrong. He doesnt have access to the sell prices that Trading 212 have shown on its 
platform including the sell price shown before, during and after the time his order was 
executed. He thinks it is very misleading to show a much higher sell price but then execute 
an order at such a low price. 
Although he understands that there may be small variations, Mr H also raised concerns that 
the prices shown werent indicative because there was a huge margin of difference. He 
doesnt think its reasonable to infer that the displayed sell price and the execution price 
could vary so much.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs disappointment at the price the sale of his shares were executed at. But 
in order to uphold his complaint, I must be persuaded that an error by Trading 212 caused 
his shares to be sold incorrectly at price lower than it should have been. So, Ive considered 
the circumstances of this trade to decide whether Trading 212 has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner  and this includes the extent of its responsibility when executing a client 
order.
Mr H gave a market order instruction to sell his shares. This meant Trading 212 was 
required to execute his trade in line with its terms and best execution policy and the relevant 
rules in Conduct of Business Rules (COBS  and specifically, COBS 11). Trading 212 
needed to execute Mr Hs instruction and obtain for him the best available price at that time, 
taking into account execution factors. Trading 212s execution policy explains a market 
order will be executed immediately at the best available market price. It does warn this price 
might change before execution, especially with less liquid financial instruments. And while it 
guarantees to buy or sell, it doesnt guarantee the price at which it will be executed  and 
warns to take care with this type of order.
Ive considered the evidence available to support how Trading 212 executed the trade in 
question. Trading 212 has provided evidence of the pricing data it obtained from the pricing 
providers it used when executing this trade for Mr H. Im persuaded that this evidence shows 
that Mr Hs order was executed at the best available market price based on the size of his 
trade. I acknowledge that the price achieved was below what Mr H was expecting based on 
the indicative pricing. But this is the risk of this type of order  in that there was no guarantee 
of the price achieved once an instruction to sell is given. When Trading 212 received an 
instruction it had an obligation to execute it as soon as possible. If Mr H had intended to only 
sell at specific price or limit, then he would have needed to provide a different instruction. 
I acknowledge that Mr H says he relied on the indicative pricing information available to him 
on Trading 212s website to understand the price he could expect to receive when his 
instruction executed. So, he feels he was misled when he received a lot less than he was 
expecting when the deal completed. Mr H also says he was only expecting small variations, 
but what he experienced was very different. So, he says this shows Trading 212 has 
provided misleading pricing and also prices should have been updated. 
Ive considered all of the points Mr H makes. But having done, so I dont agree that Trading 
212 has treated him unfairly.  As Ive explained above, the nature of the instruction Mr H 
gave meant there was no guarantee of the sale price. While, I understand why Mr H relied 
on the indicative pricing, the fact there was a larger disparity than he was expecting doesnt 
mean Trading 121 must have done something wrong. The actual sales price (and difference 
compared to indicative price) was dependent on market conditions when the deal is 
executed. While this does present a risk to consumers, like Mr H, this is nature of the 
investment he entered into and the instruction he gave. 
While I understand why Mr H is disappointed with price his shares were sold at, Im satisfied 
Trading 212 have treated him fairly and did not cause the loss he is claiming.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman