DRN-3589324
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Santander UK Plc made an international payment from her account 
after theyd agreed to stop it.   
What happened
Mrs J holds a current account with Santander.
On 20 August 2021, Mrs J arranged an international payment of €8,650 from her account 
using Santanders online banking service. But the payment wasnt completed, and 
Santander placed a block on her account.
Santander called Mrs J on 21 August 2021 to verify that shed originated the payment 
instruction, confirm the details and establish the precise nature of the transaction. Having 
completed the required verification, Santander asked Mrs J if she wanted to proceed with the 
payment. But Mrs J had decided not to proceed. Shed discovered that she could make the 
payment a different way with a different business and would save herself around £250. 
Santander agreed to cancel the payment instruction and lift the block on her account. But 
they explained this may not be completed until Monday 23 August.
Mrs J called Santander on Monday 23 August 2021 as the block still hadnt been lifted on 
her account. Santander confirmed the international payment had been cancelled. But they 
had left the block in place in error. Mrs J was upset as she needed to arrange the 
international payment through the other business urgently. She wanted them to remove the 
account block. Mrs J wanted Santander to raise a complaint. She wasnt happy with 
Santanders actions and hadnt been able to access her account or make payments to family 
members. She also told them she wasnt happy with some of the personal questions shed 
been asked during the call on 21 August 2021. 
Also on 23 August 2021, Mrs J contacted another business to arrange the international 
payment. That business agreed an exchange rate with Mrs J and set up the necessary 
details to make the payment for her. But they needed her to send them the money from her 
current account with Santander.
The following day, Santander sent the original international payment from Mrs Js account 
with them, despite having agreed to stop this. 
Santander responded to Mrs Js complaint in a letter dated 31 August 2021. They agreed 
theyd made mistakes and paid compensation of £200 into her account with them.
Mrs J wasnt happy with the compensation she received. She said that Santander had 
caused her financial hardship by sending the payment and shed had to borrow money from 
a family member as a result. She wanted Santander to pay her £2,000. So, she referred her 
complaint to this service.
Having considered all the circumstances, our investigator agreed that Santander had made 
mistakes. But they didnt think the compensation paid by Santander was enough. So, they 
recommended Santander pay Mrs J another £50. Santander agreed to our investigators 
recommendation. But Mrs J didnt think the amount was enough. She said the payment from 
Santander was a gesture of goodwill to reflect the inconvenience caused and her time spent 
trying to resolve matters. She said the payment didnt reflect the additional exchange rate 
costs incurred by Santander processing the payment.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Js complaint has been referred to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander agree they made mistakes here. In particular, the block on Mrs Js account wasnt 
lifted when they said it would and the international payment wasnt stopped, despite them 
confirming it would be. So, the issue here is whether the proposed compensation reflects the 
overall impact Santanders mistakes had upon Mrs J.
Mrs J would like compensating for the time she spent on the telephone trying to resolve 
matters together with her call costs. Everyone can be inconvenienced at times in their day-
to-day lives  and its not unusual to experience a certain level of frustration and minor 
annoyance when dealing with financial businesses. But for me to make an award Id need to 
see that the impact of a Santanders mistake was more than what someone would expect to 
experience in everyday life.
The original call on 21 August 2021 was originated by Santanders fraud department. They 
had concerns about the transaction Mrs J had requested. Such situations are not unusual. 
Where a transaction is instructed which may be out of the ordinary, banks have systems in 
place to identify and stop this until it can be verified as authentic. That is what Santander did 
here. I cant reasonably say they did anything wrong when they stopped Mrs Js payment 
instruction. The steps they took are what I would expect of them and would help to protect 
both Mrs J and Santander from falling victim to a potential fraud or scam.
Mrs J wasnt happy with some of the questions asked by Santander. I appreciate that some 
of these may have been very personal. But I think Santander were really trying to act in Mrs 
Js best interests here by better understanding the circumstances around the payment. So, I 
cant reasonably say they did anything wrong here either. But they didnt lift the account 
block and they didnt stop the international payment  both of which theyd agreed to.
Its apparent that Mrs J always intended that the payment be made. The issue here is 
around how the payment was made and at what cost to Mrs J. Theres no evidence that the 
international payment was duplicated. So, while Mrs J may have incurred additional costs by 
Santander completing the payment, I cant see that she was otherwise financially 
disadvantaged. 
Mrs J has provided copies of email exchanges she had with another business on 23 August 
2021. These show shed agreed to make the international payment through them. The 
amount Mrs J wouldve needed to pay through this company was shown as £7,472.36. The 
evidence provided by Santander shows that Mrs J paid £7,627.08 when they completed the 
payment. So, Im persuaded that had Santander cancelled the instruction, as agreed, Mrs J 
wouldve saved the difference of £154.72. 
Putting things right
Santander paid Mrs J compensation of £200 to reflect any losses, distress and 
inconvenience. Our investigator has recommended this be increased to total of £250. Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mrs J did experience some inconvenience. But I think the 
increased amount proposed feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Mrs J 
doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise 
Santander for their mistakes here. Any award is considered based upon the impact 
Santanders mistake had upon Mrs J. And I think the higher amount proposed by our 
investigator does that here. So, I dont think it would be fair to increase that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Js complaint.
I require Santander UK Plc to pay further compensation of £50 to Mrs J, taking the total paid 
to £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman