DRN-3950180
The complaint
Ms P has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
References to Ageas include companies working on its behalf. Ms P is represented in this 
case but, for ease, I will normally only refer to Ms P.
What happened
Ms P made a claim for a water leak at her home. Ageas investigated the claim and then 
declined it. It said Ms P had prejudiced the claim. Ms P complained to Ageas about 
communication issues and the claim decline. Ageas replied and said any communication 
issues were down to Ms Ps representative passing on updates to her. It also maintained its 
decision to decline the claim.
So, Ms P complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Ageas had acted reasonably when it declined the claim and that Ms P hadnt shown she had 
a claim under the policy.
As Ms P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 26 January 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ageas declined the claim because it said Ms P had prejudiced it. Ageas relied on a policy 
term that said:
For any claim that is made you will need to be able to prove or substantiate that an actual 
insured incident covered by this policy has occurred. This could be a police report, 
photographic or actual evidence of the loss or damage you have suffered.
Ive thought about the policy wording and I dont think this wording is clearly about 
prejudicing a claim. In my view, it is about a policyholder providing evidence to support their 
claim. Ms P provided a plumbers report which said the plumber had located the leak, 
replaced some pipework and confirmed the leak had been stopped. Ms P also provided 
photos. 
I asked Ageas whether, if it didnt think this evidence was acceptable, it had explained this to 
Ms P and, if so, what it had said. Although Ageas replied, it didnt respond to this question, 
apart from re-sending the letter Ms P had been sent to decline the claim. So, based on what 
Ive currently seen, I havent seen anything that persuades me that Ms P didnt comply with 
this part of the policy.
When Ageas wrote to Ms P to decline the claim, it said:
 our Chartered Surveyor attended your property to inspect the damage; but by that time 
works, including strip out, had already been carried out and without prior approval by 
Insurers.
Ms P told Ageas the only strip-out work that had taken place was what was necessary to find 
the leak. I said to Ageas I hadnt seen evidence to show that explanation wasnt reasonable 
or that Ageas had explained to Ms P why it didnt agree with her. I also asked Ageas to 
provide evidence of its surveyors findings or other evidence it had relied on to decline the 
claim. Ageas replied but didnt provide an explanation or its surveyors findings. 
Based on what Ive currently seen, I dont think Ageas has shown that Ms P prejudiced the 
claim or that it is fairly relying on one of the policys terms and conditions to decline the 
claim. Ms P provided evidence of the leak. Ageas hasnt currently provided anything to 
explain why what Ms P provided wasnt enough to show she had a claim under the policy. 
So, I currently intend to say that Ageas should settle the claim for the escape of water. If Ms 
P has already had the work carried out, I also currently intend to say that Ageas must pay a 
cash settlement at the amount it cost Ms P to do the work. It must also pay interest on any 
cash settlement because Ms P lost use of the money.
Ms P also complained about communication issues with Ageas and that she wasnt kept up 
to date on the claim. When Ageas replied, it said it was satisfied with the communication, 
which had been sent to Ms Ps representative. It said the representative might have failed to 
keep Ms P up to date. Ive looked at some of the communication and correspondence and 
can see that the representative had to chase several times for responses from Ageas and 
that some of the responses seemed not to address the issues raised. So, I dont think it was 
fair for Ageas to say the communication issues were down to the representative.
So, Ive also thought about compensation. I currently intend to say Ageas should pay £300 
compensation, as I think this fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms 
P by the issues with the claim itself and the communication issues.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 February 2023. Both parties responded before that date. Ageas confirmed it had 
nothing further to add. Ms P agreed with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive considered the complaint again and I havent found any reason to 
change how I think this complaint should be resolved.
Putting things right
Ageas should settle the claim for the escape of water. If Ms P has paid for the works already, 
Ageas should pay her a cash settlement for those costs. It should pay interest on any cash 
settlement. Ageas should also pay Ms P £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:Settle the claim for the escape of water.
If Ms P has already had the work carried out, pay a cash settlement at the cost to Ms P 
for the work.
Pay 8% simple interest on any cash settlement from the date on which the claim was first 
made to the date on which the claim is settled.
Pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman