DRN-3991192
The complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of her business, which I will call S, that Barclays Bank Plc 
(trading as Barclaycard Commercial) declined to raise a chargeback in relation to Ss 
purchase of some diet pills, and declined Ss claim for a refund under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
S is a partnership; the partners are Mr and Mrs W. It has a business credit card account with 
Barclaycard, and Mr W is a cardholder. In May 2022 Mr W bought some diet pills online 
using his business credit card. He thought he was buying one quantity of pills for £29, but 
when they arrived there were five times as many, for nearly six times the price, which he 
hadnt realised when placing the order. He took the pills for three or four days, but they gave 
him heartburn so he stopped taking them. Mrs W tried to contact the merchant, but it proved 
to be impossible to reach, and she decided that it was a fraudulent company and that her 
husband had been the victim of a scam.
Mrs W asked Barclaycard for a refund on behalf of S. Barclaycard considered this request 
under chargeback rules and then as a claim under section 75 (which makes Barclaycard 
jointly liable for a breach of contract by the supplier of goods bought with credit provided by 
Barclaycard). However, Barclaycard declined to raise a chargeback, because it said the 
payment had been an e-commerce transaction in which Mr W had authorised the merchant 
to deduct funds from Ss account, meaning that there was no chargeback reason which 
would apply. And Barclaycard said it had declined the section 75 claim because Mrs W had 
not provided enough evidence to support Ss claim. There was no evidence to corroborate 
what Mr W had ordered, or that the pills were defective or contained the wrong ingredients.
Mrs W brought this complaint to our service, on behalf of S. She provided screenshots of 
various online reviews about the diet pills. But our investigator thought that she had not 
provided Barclaycard with enough supporting evidence for either a chargeback or a section 
75 claim to be successful. He said that the reviews appeared to be about different 
companies, and it wasnt clear that any of them were the merchant Mr W had bought the pills 
from. There was no proof of what Mr W had ordered, to compare with what had been 
delivered. There was no proof that the pills were defective, and he did not think that Mr Ws 
heartburn was enough reason to infer that they were.
Mrs W did not accept that opinion. She reiterated that the merchant was a fraudulent 
company, since it was impossible to get through to them on the phone or by email. She 
asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It would certainly be fair to say that the merchant does not engage with complaints. I think 
that does lend support to an inference that the merchant is not honest, and that it may well 
have been involved in a scam. But Barclaycard was still entitled to ask for evidence to show 
that Mr W did not receive what he had ordered  it wasnt obliged to accept his recollection 
of events. In the absence of any record of how many pills he had ordered, or what price he 
says he was told he would pay, I think that Barclaycard would have struggled to successfully 
pursue a chargeback for the delivery and price not matching what Mr W says he ordered and 
expected. And when Barclaycard considered the claim for a refund under section 75, it was 
entitled to ask for further evidence.
Similarly, the fact that Mr W got heartburn when taking the pills does not necessarily mean 
there was something wrong with them. Sometimes medication does have undesirable side-
effects, without there being anything amiss with the medication. So I think the heartburn is 
not enough to prove that the pills were defective.
(As I have found that there was not enough evidence for a chargeback claim to succeed, 
I have not investigated the reason Barclaycard originally gave for declining to raise a 
chargeback  namely that no chargeback reasons were applicable  as this would not affect 
the outcome of this complaint.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W, on behalf 
of S, to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman