DRN-2371247
The complaint
Mr C and Mr L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined their request to extend 
the term of their interest only mortgage. They ask that it reviews their request and gives its 
reasons if it declines.
What happened
Mr C and Mr L took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2006. Payments are on an interest only 
basis and the term expired in October 2020.
Due to changes in the state pension, Mr C will retire in June 2021, later than hed expected. 
In 2018 Mr C and Mr L asked Barclays to extend the mortgage term so that it expires at the 
same time as Mr Cs retirement. They say they have investments and assets they intend to 
sell at that time. 
Our investigator said Barclays should extend the term to June 2021. If by then Mr C and 
Mr L still need to sell assets to repay the mortgage, it should treat them fairly while they do 
this. Barclays didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. 
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought should happen, and 
why. Mr C responded to say hed been in contact with Barclays, and to update me on the 
steps hes taking to repay the mortgage. Barclays said it had no further information to add. 
Neither party asked me to change the outcome from my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mr L took out their interest only mortgage in 2006. The term expired in October 
2020 with an unpaid balance.
The state pension age has been raised in recent years and Mr C will now retire in June 
2021. Mr C and Mr L contacted Barclays in March 2018 to ask for a term extension to reflect 
this and give them time to put solutions in place so they could remain in their house. 
Barclays declined, saying they didnt meet its current lending criteria for interest only 
mortgages. It says it offered other options, but doesnt have a record of what these were.
Mr C and Mr L asked for this to be looked into again in June 2019. Barclays referred to the 
decision in March 2018 and information sent to Mr C and Mr L about needing to repay the 
capital. It didnt offer to look again at the request for a term extension, although it gave a
contact number for its collections team.
Since the complaint came to us, Barclays said Mr C and Mr L should speak to a mortgage 
adviser or its interest only maturities team to see what options are available. It said it might 
be able to offer a stay on action, but would need to do an affordability assessment. It said 
Mr C and Mr L would need to pay a monthly amount to reduce the debt. And if its a hold for 
a property sale it would also need authority to discuss the sale with the estate agents and 
solicitor dealing with the sale.
I dont think Barclays applied the rules on mortgage regulation fairly here. I dont think it 
considered  as it should have done  whether extending the term would be in Mr C and 
Mr Ls best interests. I dont think its been pro-active in trying to work with Mr C and Mr L to 
find a solution, despite them contacting it.
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. First, where an 
existing mortgage is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers best interests.
Mr C and Mr L want to vary their mortgage by extending the term. This is a change likely to 
be material to affordability. But Barclays could offer this  despite any concerns about 
affordability or the repayment strategy  if it would be in Mr C and Mr Ls best interests.
I need to be fair to both parties here, and Barclays has a right to expect its money to be 
repaid when the mortgage term expires. Mr C and Mr L agreed to do this when they took out 
the mortgage. On the other hand, Mr C and Mr L contacted Barclays and explained why they 
expected to have difficulty with this  and why they thought theyd be better able to repay the 
debt at the end of a short extension.
Mr C says due to the change in his retirement age he needs more time to find a solution so 
that they can remain in the property, or sort out their finances to move house. Mr C says 
they have some small investments tied up in his business which will be released when he 
retires, a second property and some personal investments. He says their position has been 
complicated by the Covid-19 pandemic affecting the sale of their second property, and their 
ability to look for another property (presumably if they decide to downsize). Mr C and Mr L 
live in an area which has been badly affected by the pandemic, and subject to additional 
restrictions.
Mr C hasnt provided evidence of their investments or how much equity is available in their 
second property, or that this will be enough to repay the mortgage. From what hes said 
theyd prefer to find a way to remain in their home but will sell their house to repay the 
mortgage if they need to do so.
I think it would be in Mr C and Mr Ls best interests for the mortgage term to be extended. 
Mr C wont receive a state pension until June 2021, and intends to continue to work until 
then. Its reasonable he wants to wait until then to sell business investments.
An extension will allow Mr C and Mr L more time to sell their second property. The property 
market has been open for business and active  despite the Covid-19 pandemic. However, 
new restrictions brought in by the Government could slow down the sales process. So I think 
its fair to allow time for the sale of Mr C and Mr Ls second property to complete.
Once the second property is sold and other investments realised, Mr C and Mr L will have a 
clearer idea about whether they can repay their mortgage or if there will be a balance to pay when the extended term ends. They will be in a better position to seek independent advice 
about their options to deal with this, and if necessary put their home on the market for sale.
Mr C and Mr L maintained payments, and make small overpayments to reduce the debt. 
They havent said theres any reason why they wont be able to continue to do so. Theres 
some risk involved with an extension: Mr C and Mr Ls income could be affected by the 
pandemic, and there could be a fall in the property market. This is mitigated to some extent 
by the extension being relatively short.
Overall, I think a term extension would be in Mr C and Mr Ls best interests. I think this 
should be until 31 August 2021, to allow time for Mr C to finalise arrangements after his 
retirement in June.
I dont think its fair for Barclays to say it will hold recovery action only if Mr C and Mr L pass 
affordability tests, and increase their monthly payments. The rules on mortgage regulation 
allow Barclays to extend Mr C and Mr Ls mortgage without assessing affordability if its in 
their best interests. While this doesnt mean Barclays cant ask for information to assess 
affordability, I dont think it would be fair for Barclays to decline a term extension on the basis 
of affordability. And I dont think its reasonably necessary here, for a short extension and for 
borrowers making regular, small overpayments.
Putting things right
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic the regulator issued guidance to lenders. It recently issued 
further guidance relating to borrowers with interest only mortgages that expired after March 
2020. This guidance says lenders should allow these borrowers to delay repayment of the 
capital up to 31 October 2021, provided they remain up to date with interest payments.
So I think Barclays should extend the term of Mr C and Mr Ls mortgage to 31 August 2021. 
And, in accordance with the regulators guidance, provided Mr C and Mr L maintain interest 
payments it should allow them to repay the capital up to 31 October 2021. Barclays should 
of course take any further guidance issued by the regulator into account, and bear in mind its 
obligation to treat Mr C and Mr L fairly.
Id urge Mr C and Mr L to use this time to market their second property for sale. They should 
consider taking independent financial advice about their options if theyre concerned that the 
sale, with their other assets and investments, wont raise enough to repay the mortgage. 
Mr C and Mr L have told me theyve started marketing their house for sale.
Im pleased to hear that the parties are in contact and Mr C and Mr L are looking into ways to 
repay the mortgage. Its not clear from what Mr C said that Barclays actions have been 
entirely consistent with my provisional decision. I should point out here that if Mr C and Mr L 
accept my decision, Barclays will be bound by it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK Plc to extend the term 
of Mr C and Mr Ls mortgage to 31 August 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman