DRN-3992693
The complaint
Miss O complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2019, Miss O acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Miss O was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £216. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £12,723.
Miss O says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check, credit worthiness 
checks and verifying Miss Os income. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss O didnt agree and said there were multiple defaults on her credit file at the time she 
applied for the finance, and she was making payments to a debt management company and 
a high-cost lender as well as being charged unpaid transaction fees and overdraft fees on 
her account. She says this showed she was in financial difficulty at the time the agreement 
was provided. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn has said that it carried out a credit check before approving Miss Os application. 
Unfortunately, a copy of the credit check it completed isnt available. Ive therefore relied on 
a copy of the credit file supplied by Miss O. I think this gives a good indication of what 
Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application, it shows that Miss O had 
several historic defaults and while she was making repayments through a debt management 
company, I think this should have raised concerns. Miss Os credit report shows that she had 
an account that defaulted the month before the agreement was provided and another 
account defaulted in the month of the agreement. Given the timing of these defaults it is 
likely the default recorded in the month of the agreement being provided wouldnt have 
shown on Moneybarns credit check and possible this is also the case for the default 
recorded in the previous month. However, given the signs of previous financial difficulties 
shown by Miss Os credit report, including defaults and the use of high-cost lenders, I think it 
would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Miss Os financial circumstances before lending.
Moneybarn has said that it verified Miss Os income through the credit reference agencies 
and relied on statistical data to estimate her non-discretionary expenditure. Given the results 
from the credit check I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have 
understood Miss Os specific financial circumstances, rather than relying on an estimate.  
I cant be certain what Miss O would have told Moneybarn had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Os 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Miss Os regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was just around £1,030. In 
calculating this figure, Ive included costs such as Miss Os credit commitments, bill 
payments and insurance costs. While Moneybarn recorded Miss Os income at the time as 
£1,400 her statements show this was higher at around £1,680. Taking these figures into 
account and deducting the £216 for the repayments under the agreement would still leave a 
reasonable amount for other living costs. Therefore I find the information gathered appears 
to show the agreement was affordable to Miss O. For this reason, Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman