DRN-4309594
The complaint
Mr S has complained about a timeshare he partly paid for using his MBNA Limited credit 
card.
What happened
On 5 November 2013, Mr S, alongside his wife, bought timeshare membership from a 
supplier when overseas in Malta (Business A). On 5 December 2013, Mr S paid for his 
membership using two credit cards  his MBNA card and another card issued to him by a 
different business.1 Mr S didnt make a payment directly to Business A, but to a different 
entity Ill call Business H. In September 2014, Mr and Mrs S traded in the 2013 
membership for a new timeshare with Business A.
In 2019, Mr S complained to MBNA that the timeshare had been mis-sold and, because hed 
paid for it using credit, MBNA was responsible to answer his concerns. Amongst other 
things, Mr S made a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). MBNA considered 
what Mr S had said, but thought it didnt need to answer the complaint as Mr S didnt pay the 
timeshare supplier directly, rather he paid Business H instead. That meant there werent the 
right arrangements in place for it to be liable under the CCA for things Business A might 
have done wrong.
Unhappy with MBNAs response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Shortly 
afterwards, MBNA reviewed the information Mr S supplied and accepted there were the right 
sort of arrangements in place to make a CCA claim. But, having considered the substance of 
the claim, it still didnt think it needed to do anything further.
One of our adjudicators considered everything, but didnt think MBNA had done anything 
wrong in turning down the claim. Mr S disagreed and asked for the matter to be 
reconsidered by an ombudsman. But before that happened, the complaint was looked at 
again by a different investigator. They thought it was likely that Business A misrepresented 
the timeshare membership as an investment and that led Mr S to taking it out. So, they 
recommended MBNA pay compensation for this.
MBNA didnt agree with our investigators view, so it asked for the complaint to be 
reconsidered. Given that, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I considered all of the available evidence and arguments and, having done so, explained that 
Id come to a different conclusion to our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision, 
setting out my thoughts, and invited both parties to respond before I issued a final decision.
When explaining how I came to my provisional findings, I explained that Im required by 
DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
1 A similar complaint concerning this other credit card is being considered separately by our service.
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
I noted that Mr S set out a number of concerns about how Business A sold timeshare 
membership. I thought it would be helpful to summarise what those concerns were. But in 
doing so, I didnt set out in detail every concern Mr S had raised, rather I focused on the 
issues central to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr S said:
Business A had been found by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to have acted 
as unauthorised credit brokers when arranging loans. Mr S thought the FCA found 
that Business A hadnt properly explained the loans to consumers, that proper credit 
checks werent carried out and people were pressured into signing deals.
Mr S initially agreed to take a loan from a lender Ill call Lender V, albeit that he 
didnt actually draw down this finance. Business A werent authorised to broker this 
loan and adequate credit checks werent carried out.
There were breaches of legislation during the sale, including the CCA, the Sale of 
Goods Act 1982, the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the Consumer Credit (Linked 
Transactions) (Exemptions) Regulations 1983, the Consumer Credit Act 2006, the 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010, the 
European Timeshare Directive 2008/122/EC and EU Directive 2015/2302.
There was a Spanish Supreme Court decision that ruled that no payment could be 
taken (or credit agreement signed) within the 14-day cooling offer period after 
agreeing to purchase and it was illegal for memberships to not have specific details 
of the apartment available under the timeshare and for memberships to run more 
than 50 years.
The annual maintenance fee costs werent adequately explained at the time of sale.
The rental programme that was available barely covered the cost of the annual 
management fees. Plus the guarantee of the rent covering the maintenance charges 
was removed in 2017. 
Mr S had to stay in lower grade accommodation to that which his membership 
entitled him. This was a breach of contract.
Mr S was told the membership was sold at a discount and it was actually worth 
around £16,000. He was told the membership was an investment and it would be 
sold later at the higher rate.
In my decision I considered Mr Ss concerns in a number of different sections.
Did Business A act as an unauthorised credit broker?
I noted that some loans are regulated by a regulator in the UK, currently the FCA. And to 
arrange or broker these regulated consumer credit loans, a business needed to be 
authorised by the UK regulator to do that. The FCA looked into a number of loans granted by 
a UK lender to pay for Business A memberships and found, for a period of time, the entity that arranged the loans wasnt authorised to do so.
Mr S paid for his timeshare membership by using two credit cards. In those circumstances 
the payment was taken through the credit card network and no regulated loans were 
arranged by Business A. So, I couldnt say that Business A acted as an unauthorised credit 
broker in Mr Ss case as it didnt broker a loan for him  Mr S already had a credit agreement 
with MBNA in place at the time of sale. This also meant that Business A didnt need to 
confirm Mr Ss ability to repay his credit card when agreeing to sell membership.
I said that I knew Mr S initially agreed to take a loan from Lender V, but he didnt actually 
draw down this loan. I hadnt seen a copy of the loan agreement that Mr S signed, but from 
what I knew about Lender V, it was a company based in the British Virgin Islands (BVI) that 
didnt provide consumer credit loans regulated in the UK. So I wasnt sure that Business A (a 
BVI registered company selling timeshares in Malta) needed UK regulation to broker a loan 
with a BVI registered lender. But I made no firm finding on that point as Mr S didnt take out 
a regulated loan with MBNA, the business concerned about in this complaint.
Was there a breach of legislation and/or regulation when the timeshare was sold?
Mr S had pointed to a number of UK and EU Regulations that he said were breached during 
the sale. Mr Ss agreement stated that it was governed by the laws and jurisdiction of the 
BVI, so I wasnt satisfied that the legislation and regulations referred to applied to the sale, 
some of which in any event postdate the sale. But even if they did apply, I didnt think that 
they helped Mr S with his claim.
Mr S had pointed to a Spanish judgment that he said was important when thinking about the 
sale and breaches of relevant law. In particular, that judgment held that payment shouldnt 
be made in the 14-day cooling off period and memberships shouldnt run over 50 years. But 
Mr Ss agreement was entered into outside of Spain and with a business with no links to 
Spain, so it wasnt clear to me why Spanish law would apply to this agreement. But in any 
event, Mr S didnt make payment until a month after he signed up for the timeshare, which 
was when the agreement said payment was due, and I couldnt see he tried to cancel within 
14 days of the sale. Further, the agreement gave rights to a specific hotel room and was set 
to run for 32 years, so complied with the principles Mr S said were set out in the Spanish 
judgment. Finally, even if the sale did breach Spanish law, I couldnt see why that meant 
MBNA would have to compensate Mr S for what had gone wrong.
Further, Mr S hadnt pointed to any specific breaches of the highlighted legislation or 
regulations, nor said why he thought MBNA would be liable for those breaches, apart from 
claims under the CCA. So, I considered those further.
Did Mr S have any claim under the CCA?
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
The upshot of this is that there needs to be a DCS agreement in place for the lender (here 
MBNA) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr S) for the misrepresentations or breaches of 
contract of the supplier (here Business A). But, on the face of it, I thought there was no such 
relationship as Business A wasnt paid directly using the credit card, rather the payment was 
taken by Business H.
Mr S provided information that Business A and Business H were linked as they were all part 
of the same group of companies (as was Lender V). Based on that, MBNA accepted that it 
could be liable for Business As breaches of contract or misrepresentations. Given MBNAs 
acceptance, I didnt comment on that issue further.
I thought about the problems Mr S identified with the sale and whether they amounted to 
things MBNA could be responsible for under s.75 CCA.
I said it was important to note that Mr Ss purchase agreement financed by MBNA started in 
November 2013 and ended in September 2014, when it was traded in for a new timeshare 
with Business A. So, when thinking about a breach of contract, it is only a breach of that 
agreement, while it was in place, that I could consider. For example, I was aware that in 
2020 Mr S said Business A became insolvent. But, as that insolvency happened after the 
relevant timeshare membership ended, if Mr S lost holiday rights on Business As 
insolvency, that couldnt amount to a breach of the 2013 agreement.
Mr S said that the annual maintenance fee wasnt made clear at the time of sale. I could see 
that the first years fee was included in the purchase price, but then a fee would be due by 
the end of the year for the following years membership. The contract said that the cost was 
to be set in accordance with the scheme rules.
As Mr S traded in his membership in September 2014, I didnt think he would have been 
charged a maintenance fee at all under his 2013 membership  the 2014 fee was included in 
the price paid and the 2015 fee hadnt fallen due at the time of exchange. Further, I couldnt 
see there was any alleged misrepresentation made about the maintenance fee, nor that the 
allegation that the costs could have been clearer could amount to a misrepresentation.
Mr S explained that he was offered a rental programme, so that he could receive money 
back by not using his timeshare. Mr S said he was told this would cover the annual cost of 
the maintenance fees, but this promise was removed in 2017. But, as set out before, the 
agreement that was subject to this complaint ended in 2014, so any change didnt apply to 
that agreement. In the evidence Mr S supplied, I saw that in 2013 he agreed to receive 
£1,600 for the weeks of timeshare accommodation in 2014 and 2015, so it appeared that 
any rental programme worked as expected.
I saw that Mr S stayed at Business As resort in April and September 2014 before trading in 
his membership, and on neither of those occasions did he stay in the room associated with 
his membership. But I didnt think that amounted to a breach of contract because Mr S said 
Business A bought back the holiday weeks in 2014 and 2015 for £1,600. So, I thought Mr S 
couldnt have expected to stay in his designated room in 2014 given that hed sold that right. 
Instead, he used a voucher to pay for his April 2014 stay, so I didnt think that 
accommodation was supplied under the 2013 membership. It wasnt clear on the evidence I had on what basis Mr S went on holiday in September 2014, but again, I didnt think it was a 
week provided under his timeshare agreement as hed sold his entitlement the year before.
Mr S said he was told that his membership was worth more than he paid for it and it was an 
investment. I thought, if that was untrue, that could amount to a misrepresentation. However, 
I didnt think there was enough for me to say any such assertion was untrue. Mr S provided 
some handwritten notes he said were from the time of sale that record that he was told the 
timeshare could be worth £39,000 in 2022. Mr S also said he understood that the timeshare 
resale programme opened in 2015. But he exchanged the timeshare in September 2014, so 
I couldnt see he ever tried to sell it to see what, if anything, he could receive for it. Further, 
in the ten months he had the membership, he was able to sell two years of usage for £1,600 
and his handwritten notes showed that maintenance fees were around £400 a year, so that 
shows a generated income in those two years. Further, when the agreement was 
exchanged, Mr S said he traded it in for the purchase value, so it looks like he didnt lose any 
money on it. Given all of that, I couldnt say there was enough to conclude his membership 
didnt offer the chance to make a return on what he paid for it.
In conclusion, I couldnt see that MBNA should have accepted any claims made under the 
CCA.
MBNA responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr S responded with more arguments he wanted me to consider. He provided a letter sent to 
MBNA in May 2019 that dealt with the relationship between Business H and Business A. He 
also set out why he disagreed with my provisional decision. Mr S said that a UK court had 
found that Business A were an unregulated credit broker and that was relevant to his 
complaint. He also said that the credit card payments being taken within 14 days was illegal 
and pointed to problems he had with the exclusivity and availability of holidays and an 
increase in maintenance fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr S has said, but it doesnt change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr S paid for his timeshare membership partly 
using his MBNA credit card. Mr S has pointed out that a credit card works in a similar way to 
a loan, so he says this is similar to the unauthorised brokering that Business A had done in 
arranging loans. However, at the time of the sale, the credit agreement relating to that card 
was already in place. So, Business A didnt have to arrange anything for Mr S to have 
access to credit as he used his existing credit card. It follows that Business A wasnt acting 
as a credit broker in Mr Ss case.
In my provisional decision, I considered whether MBNA should have accepted a claim under 
the CCA. As I set out in that provisional decision, MBNA are only responsible for things 
related to the contract that was funded by its credit card, i.e. the one in place between 
September 2013 and September 2014. I understand that Mr S says the cost of maintenance 
fees increased, but I cant see that he was ever charged a maintenance fee under the 
relevant agreement. Nor can I see that Mr S had a problem with exclusivity or availability, 
given that he was able to holiday at Business As resort in that time. Any problems he had 
with that after September 2014 arent something MBNA is responsible for. Finally, I still cant 
see that Business A (or Business H) took payment using his MBNA card within 14 days of him agreeing to become a member. So I still dont think MBNA needs to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman