DRN-3584820
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc has removed a cheque deposit option.
What happened
Mr G says Santander has removed the option for depositing postal cheques at his local 
branch. He says he wished to deposit cheques at his local branch in the evenings and has 
concerns about using alternative methods. Mr G would like Santander to reverse its decision 
and says other customers must be a similar position.
Santander says it has removed the facility for customers to deposit cheques at a branch 
when closed but says they can sent cheques to it, use a cash machine or attend a branch to 
make a cheque deposit. It says it will not be changing its policy.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it up to Santander to make such business decisions and that it offered a number of 
reasonable alternatives to Mr G.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and would like Santander held to account for its decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he 
feels about Santanders decision.
It may be helpful if I explain to Mr G that we are not Santanders regulator and so its not our 
role to punish it or any other business or as Mr G suggests bring it to account. It is also not 
our role to tell a business how it runs that business or interfere in its business decisions such 
as this decision.
I appreciate Mr G says he will be caused inconvenience by Santanders decision and I also 
appreciate why Mr G would not wish to use a cash machine to deposit cheques. But for the 
reasons I have explained Im satisfied that Santander is entitled to decide how it runs its 
business in the same way Mr G is entitled to make the decision he has made in respect of 
an alternative bank. Im also satisfied that Santander has made a number of reasonable 
alternative options available for its customers.
Overall, I cant fairly order that Santander reinstate its previous method of accepting a 
cheque deposit but that of course doesnt mean I have not considered the depth of feeling 
here. I hope Mr G appreciates that I cant comment on how other customers may or may not 
be affected by this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman