DRN-4362473
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by TenetConnect Limited (Tenet) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He thinks the advice may have been unsuitable for him and has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr B wasnt sure what to do about his pension so he got in touch with a representative of 
Tenet. Mr B met with Tenet in December 2017 and it gathered information about his 
circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr B was 27, that he had a partner but wasnt 
married and had no dependents. It was recorded that Mr B earned around £40,000 per year 
and had significant disposable income which he was saving towards a house deposit. Tenet 
noted Mr B had £43,000 saved and hoped to be able to purchase a home in 2018.
Tenet noted Mr B had a high attitude to risk (8/10); that he wanted to retire early, ideally by 
age 60 and have an income of around £24,000 per year. It was further noted Mr B and his 
employer were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his employers new defined-
contribution (DC) pension scheme, equivalent to around £6,000 per year.
In January 2018 Tenet advised Mr B to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP. It said this 
would give Mr B the option to retire at 60 and adjust his income as per his needs. Tenet said 
that Mr B could expect high levels of growth based on his attitude to risk and willingness to 
take risk. It said this provided significantly more advantageous death benefits for his future 
wife and children. And overall it said the transfer significantly outweighed the loss of 
guarantees through the BSPS. Mr B accepted this advice and £90,881.97 was transferred 
from the BSPS to his new SIPP.
In 2022 Mr B complained to our Service about the advice he received, believing it may have 
been unsuitable for him and had caused him a loss. Mr B said that Tenet told him he could 
accrue a higher pension than the BSPS2 if he invested in a high-risk portfolio.
The complaint was passed to Tenet but it didnt uphold it. Tenet said the advice was suitable 
as Mr B had a high attitude to risk so it thought he was likely to be able to achieve the growth 
required to improve on his BSPS benefits. It also said Mr B had the capacity to take this risk 
because he would be building up further pension benefits over the next 30 years. Tenet 
added that transferring his benefits gave Mr B flexibility to retire early without penalty and to 
reduce his income once his state pension became payable. It also provided Mr Bs estate 
with better death benefits. Tenet said that Mr B had been thinking about transferring out of 
the BSPS for several months, having engaged with another adviser previously.  
Unhappy with Tenets response, Mr B asked our Service to investigate. He still felt hed been 
introduced to unnecessary risk by transferring and had lost valuable guarantees. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought the advice 
was unsuitable as Mr B wasnt likely to be able to exceed the benefits available to him under 
the BSPS2 and he didnt think there were any other reasons for Mr B to transfer out of the 
BSPS given Mr B had at least 30 years before he could think about retiring. The Investigator 
recommended Mr B should be compensated based on him having opted to join the BSPS2.
Tenet didnt agree  it maintained the advice was suitable as the transfer met all of Mr Bs 
objectives. It said Mr B was well versed in investment matters and he could afford to take the 
risk with his pension. It also maintained the growth required to match his DB scheme 
benefits was achievable based on his high attitude to risk. 
The complaint was subsequently referred for a final decision.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to 
Mr B to advise him of the FCAs proposed changes which were due to come into effect in 
April 2023 and to give him the option to have any redress due to him calculated under the 
then current guidance or to wait for the new rules to come into effect. Mr B chose to have his 
compensation calculated under the new rules and guidance.
The Investigator subsequently informed both Mr B and Tenet that if the Ombudsman 
considering the case decided to uphold it, they may require Tenet to calculate any redress 
owed to Mr B using the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator. Although the calculator has 
been developed specifically for the BSPS consumer redress scheme, the Investigator 
explained that the FCA encouraged firms to use the calculator for non-scheme cases, such 
as Mr Bs complaint with our Service. 
The case was passed to me to make a final decision on the matter. I issued a provisional 
decision upholding the complaint on 18 August 2023. 
Tenet accepted my provisional decision and said it was willing to carry out a loss 
assessment using the FCAs calculator. Mr B made the following comments:
He is extremely disappointed that it was possible to receive such bad advice and 
feels the adviser did so for personal gain.
His anxiety levels have increased whilst waiting for an Ombudsmans decision and 
having found out that compensation levels have decreased as a result of current 
market conditions.
He doesnt think it is fair that the redress calculator takes into account the current 
annuity market as the price of purchasing an annuity is likely to change significantly 
between now and his retirement.
He is ultimately concerned that he will not be fairly compensated for the unsuitable 
advice.
It is unfair that someone in identical circumstances to him should receive more 
compensation simply because they complained earlier than him when the market 
conditions were very different.As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, Im now providing my final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor Tenet have disputed the findings I made in my provisional decision about 
the suitability of the advice Mr B received. So, I will simply set out my findings again 
beneath.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tenets actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable and that a transfer should only consider the transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate it is in the consumers best interests. Im also mindful 
that under COBS 9.2.1R Tenet needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation to Mr B was suitable for him. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied Tenet took reasonable steps to ensure the advice to transfer was 
suitable for Mr B or that it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
It seems to me that Tenets main reason for recommending that Mr B transfer out of the 
BSPS was because he had the capacity to take a high risk with his pension, such that he 
was likely to be able to improve on his DB scheme benefits. Ive considered this carefully.Tenet carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). The TVAS used the benefits 
available to Mr B through the BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
According to the information gathered by Tenet, Mr B said he wanted to retire early, around 
age 60. So, the TVAS dated 26 January 2018 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it 
was 5.83% if Mr B took a full pension. And at age 60 it was 6.15% if he took a full pension. 
Tenet didnt produce critical yield rates based on Mr B taking tax-free cash (TFC) and a 
reduced pension.
The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 was 
5.53% if Mr B took a full pension and 5.34% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. At age 
60, it was 5.96% if he took a full pension and 5.79% if he took a reduced pension and TFC.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given.
The relevant discount rate at the time the advice was given was 4.7% a year for 37 years to 
retirement and also 4.7% a year for 32 years to retirement. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% a year.
Tenet assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk as 8/10 or high. And it recommended an investment 
strategy in line with this which involved Mr B investing 85% of the funds in equities and 15% 
in property. However, I dont think that was a fair assessment of his overall risk profile, which 
shouldve also included proper consideration of his capacity for loss.
It appears that Tenet based its assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk on a questionnaire, 
which was completed on 22 December 2017. Mr Bs answers actually placed him in the 
highest risk category, or 10/10. However, Tenet reduced this to 8/10. But assessing a 
customers risk profile is not simply a tick-box exercise or one that should rely solely on the 
customers thoughts about their attitude to risk. Tenets assessment shouldve taken account 
of Mr Bs whole circumstances. And the answers Mr B gave in the questionnaire shouldnt 
have been taken wholly on face value, particularly when they conflicted with things Tenet 
already knew about Mr B.
For example, Mr B said that he strongly agreed with the following two statements:
2) I feel comfortable about investing in the stockmarket.
9) I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares.
To my mind, those two statements are not particularly compatible. It is unclear how someone 
can feel comfortable investing in the stockmarket when they have no experience of doing so. 
Furthermore, Tenet noted in the fact-find that although Mr B did not believe a short term loss 
of capital would have a material effect on his standard of living in retirement, he said that he 
would start to feel uncomfortable if the value of his investments dropped significantly. So, 
I think this demonstrates that while Mr B was open to taking risk to achieve higher returns, 
he still wasnt prepared to take such a risk that he could experience significant losses. And to 
my mind, an 8/10 risk strategy would expose him to such a risk.Mr B also said that he agreed hed rather take his chances with higher risk investments 
than increase the amount hes saving. And he strongly disagreed that he generally looks 
for safer investments, even if that means lower returns. But according to the fact-find 
completed on 18 December 2017, Mr B had a significant sum in savings held on deposit. 
Mr B had not invested or taken any amount of risk with those savings. While I appreciate he 
was saving for a house deposit, if Mr B genuinely had a high appetite for risk and felt 
comfortable taking such risk, Id have expected him to have invested at least some of his 
savings in order to boost his returns. So, I think Tenet ought to have known that Mr B had no 
experience of high-risk investments.
I also think that it was apparent that Mr B did not fit Tenets own description of an investor 
with an 8/10 risk level:
Investors in risk levels 7 and 8 do not typically regard themselves as cautious people and 
are inclined to view risk as a source of opportunity rather than as a threat. They generally 
have significant experience of investment and find investment matters fairly easy to 
understand. They tend to make investment decisions relatively quickly and are not usually 
particularly anxious about the investment decisions they have made. They typically look for 
higher returns rather than safer investments. They are reasonably comfortable about 
investing in the stock market and typically prefer riskier, but higher returning, investments to 
keeping money in bank deposits.
Like the description above, I think a customer with a genuinely high attitude to risk would be 
experienced in investment matters, as I think they would need such experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks such an investment strategy would pose. But 
Mr B had almost no investment experience. According to the fact-find, Tenet noted Mr Bs 
only experience was choosing his investment options for his new DC pension. But this 
pension had been open for less than a year at that point. And according to the suitability 
report, the pension was 100% invested in the Diversified Assets fund, which comprised 65% 
in global equites and 35% fixed interest. So, Mr B had opted to invest in a regular managed 
fund, rather him having built the portfolio himself. So, I dont think this demonstrates any real 
expertise in investment matters.
Tenet also had to consider Mr Bs capacity for loss. In the fact-find, Tenet noted that the 
BSPS benefits were not core to meeting Mr Bs needs because he had potentially another 
33 years to retirement and any loss of capital or value in the transferred benefits would not 
have any effect on his standard of living now or in the future. But I dont see how Tenet could 
reasonably reach that conclusion when Mr Bs retirement was so far ahead in the future. 
Tenet estimated that Mr B would need around £24,000 net per year in retirement in todays 
terms  although this was no more than a best guess, it isnt a particularly high sum so Im 
prepared to accept that as a reasonable estimate. Tenet has provided a calculation showing 
that with inflation at only 2%, that would equate to over £45,000 net when Mr B reached age 
60. Even if taking into account Mr Bs capacity to build further pension funds, I find it hard to 
believe that Mr Bs guaranteed, escalating DB pension income would not be considered an 
important part of helping him meet his target income at retirement.
In terms of Mr Bs other assets, he had savings, but these were earmarked for a property 
purchase. And Mr B expected that the £1,000 per month he was saving towards the deposit 
would instead be required for costs associated with his mortgage and other living expenses. 
So, once he became a homeowner, I dont think Mr B had much capacity to save thereafter.
Tenet also noted that Mr B was expecting an inheritance from his parents in the future. But 
without further details about what this would entail, and when Mr B might reasonably expect it, I dont think it was reasonable for Tenet to consider this as part of Mr Bs assets that gave 
him a higher capacity for loss.
So it seems to me that Mr Bs capacity for loss assessment was based solely on the 
potential future pension funds he would accrue. I accept Mr B would go on to build new 
pension funds, which would ultimately go on to represent a large part of his retirement 
provision. But I dont think having the capability of building up further pension funds meant 
he could afford, or had the need, to give up his guaranteed pension. 
Overall, I appreciate that Mr B was expected to work for at least another 30 years or so, and 
as such would be expecting to build significant further pension funds. But I still dont think he 
could afford to take a high level of risk with these pension funds just because he had the 
capacity to build more in future. This represented Mr Bs only guaranteed pension at the time 
of the advice, so I dont think he shouldve been advised to subject them to high investment 
risk, particularly as he already had a DC scheme where he could take a higher-risk approach 
with some or all of those funds if he wanted to. However, given the time to retirement and his 
capacity to build further pension funds, I accept Mr B was open to taking more than a 
medium risk with these pension funds. So, I overall, I think a fair assessment of his attitude 
to risk was most likely high-medium or around 6/10 on Tenets scale.
I've taken the discount rate into account, along with Mr Bs high-medium attitude to risk and 
also the term to retirement. With a high-medium attitude to risk, I think there was a 
reasonable chance Mr B couldve matched the benefits available to him under the BSPS2 
and the PPF, although this was more likely if he retired at age 65 given the higher critical 
yields at age 60. However, in Tenets suitability report, it recognised that there was still a 
reasonable chance the critical yields would not be achieved. And I think there would be little 
point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Im also mindful that simply just to be 
able to match the scheme benefits, that required a consistent average investment return of 
between 5.5% and 6% over 30 years, which was above the discount rate and was by no 
means guaranteed.
So, overall, I dont think Mr B was likely to be able to improve on his DB scheme benefits at 
retirement if he transferred out of the BSPS. And even just to match them he would have to 
rely on consistent returns in excess of the regulators middle growth rate. I dont think Mr B 
needed to risk his guaranteed pension in this way, given his capacity for loss and the fact the 
pension benefits he would accrue in future would all be subject to investment risk. So for this 
reason alone, I dont think Tenet has shown that it was clearly in Mr Bs best interests to 
transfer out of the BSPS.
However, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Other 
objectives might mean a transfer is suitable overall. Although I think Tenets primary reason 
for recommending that Mr B transfer out of the BSPS was because it thought he had the 
opportunity to improve on his pension benefits, I note that it said in the suitability report that 
being able to exceed the critical yields would not be a reason for recommending a transfer in 
isolation. But Tenet said Mr B had a number of other objectives it thought would be better 
served outside of the DB scheme, which supported its recommendation. So, Ive thought 
about whether Mr Bs other objectives meant a transfer was still suitable for him overall.
Flexibility and income needs
In the suitability report, Tenet said that Mr B was attracted by the potential of taking a flexible 
tax efficient income to suit his circumstances and the potential for a higher TFC entitlement. 
It also said he was interested in taking benefits from the earliest retirement age without 
penalty, and was aware of the early retirement penalties in the BSPS. It noted Mr B wanted to retire early, around age 60, but he might consider working past age 60 if necessary to 
subsidise any income shortfalls at or near retirement.
I have taken this into account but Im also mindful that Mr B was at least 30 years away from 
retiring. So, although he thought hed like to retire early  as most people do  whether that 
was realistically achievable for him wasnt something he or Tenet could say with any 
certainty. I also think its worth noting here that Tenets suitability report presented early 
retirement from the DB scheme as being something to be avoided because of the penalty 
that applied when doing so. Whereas it said if Mr B transferred his pension he could retire 
early without penalty.  But the penalty that Tenet referred to was in fact actuarial 
adjustments. Those adjustments reflect that, by taking a pension earlier, its likely that the 
pot to pay for that pension will have to last longer. As such the schemes actuaries calculate 
a reduction in the yearly pension to allow for the fact that the pensioner will claim the 
pension  most likely  for a longer period. That is not a penalty for taking the pension 
early, its simply a compromise for having the benefits of that pension paid over a longer 
period. And I think describing early retirement factors as a penalty wasnt providing Mr B 
with information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
I also think that most people, when asked, would say they require flexibility. And as Ive said 
above, I think it was too soon for Mr B to say what his actual retirement needs were. But 
even if I accept that this was a genuine objective for Mr B, its evident that he would likely 
have a significant degree of flexibility at retirement even if he remained in the DB scheme. 
Thats because Mr B would be building up further pension funds over the next 30 years and 
these were held in a DC scheme. This type of pension allowed Mr B to take a flexible 
income, as well as TFC, so he would already likely have the ability to increase or decrease 
his income in retirement as he saw fit. And I dont think he wouldve needed extra flexibility of 
income beyond this because the income he could take from the BSPS2 at age 60, together 
with his state pension entitlement, was well below Mr Bs minimum income requirements in 
retirement. So, Mr B wouldnt likely need to take less income from the DB scheme as he 
could simply decrease the income he took from the DC scheme if he needed to.
Tenet has also said that a benefit of transferring was the potential for Mr B to take a higher 
level of TFC than he could get from the BSPS2 at age 60. But I havent seen any evidence 
to persuade me that Mr B needed access to a higher amount of TFC than the scheme 
provided, particularly as he could also take 25% of his DC pension fund as TFC. So, I dont 
think that was a genuine objective for Mr B, it was simply a consequence of transferring out 
of the scheme. Im also mindful that if Mr B remained in the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the 
ability to transfer out of that scheme closer to his retirement, if that was something he 
genuinely needed to do.
Tenet may say that the transfer value offered to Mr B at the time was enhanced and that any 
amount offered to transfer out of the BSPS2 in the future would likely be at a reduced rate. 
However, I dont think that was a good enough reason to transfer out of the scheme, when 
Mr B had no real need to do so.
Tenet may argue that transferring out of the BSPS was the only way for Mr B to achieve his 
target income of £24,000 per year  equivalent to over £45,000 at Mr Bs age 60.
The suitability report seems to suggest this wouldnt have been possible if he joined the 
BSPS2 as it wouldve required an average return of 9.21%, which wasnt achievable. 
However, while the suitability report made mention of the state pension Mr B would be 
entitled to at age 68, it doesnt appear that it factored in the impact of this entitlement on his 
overall income need when working out the growth rate required to provide his target income 
at age 60. Furthermore, the modelling used to estimate the value of Mr Bs DC scheme was 
based on him only increasing his pension contributions each year in line with inflation, whereas it is generally the case that consumers increase their contributions as they get older 
and depending on how much they can afford to contribute. So, I think that a model reflecting 
these facts would likely demonstrate that Mr B couldve met his income needs by remaining 
in the BSPS2. 
I have also seen that in order for Mr B to meet his income needs by transferring out of the 
DB scheme, Tenet said his full pension provisions (including his DC scheme funds) would 
have to grow at 6.76% gross before on-going charges. It said a growth rate of 6.76% was 
achievable for a client willing to take risk over a long period of time with a 75% to 85% equity 
asset allocation. But as Ive said above, I dont think that this was fair reflection of Mr Bs 
attitude to risk when taking account of his capacity for loss, so I dont think that level of return 
was consistently achievable for Mr B. And as such, I think it was misleading for Tenet to 
suggest Mr B could meet his income need by following this strategy.
Overall, I think that Mr B had more chance of meeting his income needs in retirement 
through a combination of taking his benefits under the BSPS2 and taking flexible drawdown 
from his DC scheme. And this provided him with a higher amount of guaranteed income, 
thereby decreasing his overall risk in retirement. So, I dont think it was suitable or in Mr Bs 
best interests to advise him to transfer his DB pension, exposing him to the risks of the 
financial markets, just to have extra flexibility that he didnt need. Thats particularly the case 
given Mr Bs DC scheme already provided him with a degree of flexibility and would already 
be exposed to investment risk.
Death benefits
Tenet said that Mr B would benefit from significantly more advantageous death benefits to 
leave to his future wife and children, and that Mr B was attracted by this.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course most people would like their loved ones 
to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a large sum to his 
future family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr B, as it would to most people. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, I dont think it was actually 
a priority for Mr B. This is also reflected in the suitability report, where Tenet noted that lump 
sum death benefits were his lowest ranked priority because he did not yet have a spouse or 
dependents.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B 
was not married but he had a partner  given that Tenet referred to Mr Bs future wife, it 
seems that he envisaged being married in the future, as well as having children. So, I think 
the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 wouldve been useful to his future spouse if 
Mr B predeceased her. The spouses pension was guaranteed and it escalated  and under 
the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be calculated as if no TFC had been taken. 
Furthermore, this benefit was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. And if investment returns were poor, there 
may not have been a large sum to pass on in any event, particularly if Mr B took more out of 
the fund than he anticipated in the early years of his retirement. 
Im also mindful that Mr B expected his DC pension to form his main retirement provision, 
given he expected to make further contributions to it throughout his working life. And Mr B 
couldve nominated any beneficiaries of his choosing to receive the remaining funds in this 
pension. Any additional pension income above that which was needed couldve also been 
saved in a tax-efficient way for the benefit of his family, for example, through a trust. Also, if 
Mr B had genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his future family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then I think 
Tenet should have instead explored life insurance. Mr B was young and in excellent health, so life insurance was likely to be cheap and would have enabled him to leave a legacy 
without risking his retirement income.
So, I think Mr B already had valuable death benefits through the DB scheme and he couldve 
made other arrangements (in the ways Ive set out above) to ensure that his family were 
provided for on his death if he was genuinely concerned about this. But as Ive said above, 
I dont think this was really a genuine objective for him at the time of the advice. Overall, 
I dont think it was suitable advice for Mr B to transfer his pension to obtain extra death 
benefits that he didnt really need.
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
And moving to the PPF was widely perceived to be a poor outcome for members. Mr B says 
he was aware that some of his colleagues had transferred out, so its quite possible that he 
was already leaning towards the decision to transfer out because of this. 
Its well documented that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr B. But this only 
serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice. So it was Tenets obligation to give 
Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
Mr B had already chosen to join the BSPS2 and at the time the advice was given, all signs 
pointed to the scheme going ahead. But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go 
ahead, I think that Tenet shouldve reassured Mr B that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr B through the PPF at age 
60 wasnt substantially lower than the benefits he could obtain from the BSPS2, and as Ive 
set out above, he was unlikely to be able to improve on this by transferring out  the critical 
yields relevant to the PPF at age 60 were around 6%. Although the increases in payment in 
the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment 
risk. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to Tenet recommending Mr B transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Bs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Tenet said 
that Mr B had, looked at shares and investments and was, well prepared for the meeting 
with the adviser. But I still dont think Mr B was an experienced investor and I cannot see 
that he had the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on their own. Indeed, the 
recommendation letter suggested he would remain reliant on professional advisers as he 
had agreed to pay for ongoing advice. So, I dont think that having control was a genuine 
objective for Mr B  it was simply another consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
Summary
I accept that Mr B may have been motivated to transfer out of the BSPS when he met with 
Tenet. And I appreciate that being told he could have flexibility in the way he took his 
benefits and that he could achieve a higher pension if he transferred out to a SIPP would 
have sounded attractive to Mr B. But Tenet wasnt there simply to just arrange what Mr B 
might have thought he wanted. It was obliged to really understand what Mr B needed, to give 
him an objective picture and to recommend what was in his best interests.
And ultimately, I dont think the advice Tenet gave to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income under the BSPS2. And if Tenet had followed a 
robust process in assessing Mr Bs attitude to risk, and properly considered his capacity for 
loss, I think it ought to have been clear that Mr B was unlikely to be able to improve on his BSPS2 benefits by transferring out. And in my view, Mr B should not have been encouraged 
to take that risk, particularly as there were no other compelling reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh it. So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for Tenet to advise 
him to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a SIPP.
By the time the advice was given Mr B had already opted to join the BSPS2. While Mr B 
indicated he wanted to retire early, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept 
the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't 
be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by maintaining his 
choice to join the BSPS2, Mr B wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2 compared with the PPF. So, I think 
Tenet shouldve advised Mr B to maintain his choice to join the BSPS2.
Tenet may argue Mr B would have transferred out even if it had advised against it, either by 
insisting with Tenet or by using another independent financial adviser. It says that Mr B had 
already met with an adviser who had indicated that he should not transfer out of the BSPS, 
but Mr B still sought further advice from Tenet. Tenet says it also provided Mr B with 
extensive information about the risks of transferring and what hed be giving up if he 
proceeded with the transfer. So, ultimately it believes Mr B made an informed choice to 
proceed with the transfer and he wouldve transferred in any event.
I accept that Tenet disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But I think it misled him about the 
chance of him being able to improve on his DB scheme benefits. And ultimately it advised 
Mr B to transfer out of the scheme, and I think Mr B relied on that advice. While Mr B had 
met with an adviser before meeting with Tenet, he says he wasnt provided with any formal 
advice. And hes explained that he didnt feel the adviser was very professional, so he 
wanted a second opinion. Given the significance of the choice Mr B was facing, I dont think 
that was unreasonable or that it means Mr B would have transferred in any event.
Mr B had already chosen to join the BSPS2, so had already shown a willingness to stay in 
the DB scheme. And if Tenet had provided Mr B with clear advice against transferring, 
explaining that he was unlikely to be able to exceed the benefits available to him through the 
BSPS2 if he transferred out, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. Overall, Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that Mr B would not have accepted that advice.
In summary, I think Mr B wouldve maintained his decision to join the BSPS2 if hed been 
advised to do so. And so Tenet should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, in line 
with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
And it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for 
comparison purposes, as I dont think there is sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mr B 
wouldve gone on to take his DB scheme benefits any earlier than age 65 had he been 
advised to remain in it. I think it is too early to say whether Mr B will actually be able to, or be 
inclined to, retire at age 60.
I appreciate Mr Bs concern that market conditions could become less favourable in the 
future, and that when he comes to retire he may not have enough in his pension fund to 
replace his benefits because of changes in annuity rates. But the regulator has set out what 
it considers the appropriate method of compensation to be in instances of unsuitable 
pension transfer advice. And that requires Tenet to calculate how much Mr B would need in 
his pension pot today in order to be able to replace his BSPS2 benefits at retirement. 
I appreciate that this calculation cant take into account unforeseen events that could change 
economic factors or financial assumptions in the future, but this method of redress is also 
based on the approach a court would take in similar cases. So, ultimately Im satisfied the regulators redress method puts Mr B back, as far as possible, into the position he would 
have been in had he not transferred his BSPS benefits.
Mr B has also said that he has suffered a great deal of anxiety in bringing the complaint. But 
I can only award compensation for the impact of the unsuitable advice here. And Im mindful 
that the redress calculation Tenet will be undertaking will, as far as possible, ensure that 
Mr B is not financially disadvantaged by it. Mr B is also a long time away from his eventual 
retirement, so I dont think that having to bring the complaint has had much of an impact on 
his retirement planning. So, Im not making any other award here other than requiring Tenet 
to carry out a loss assessment as below.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most 
likely have joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Tenet must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tenet should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should 
be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tenet should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Tenets offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tenet may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr B 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited 
to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
TenetConnect Limited pays Mr B the balance. 
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr B in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman