DRN-3238596
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) continued to report a debt on 
his credit file despite it being included within an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) that 
was settled in July 2020.
What happened
Mr W entered into an IVA in 2018. This was supervised by a licensed Insolvency Practitioner 
(IP). The IVA included various debts owed by Mr W including an amount owed to RBS. The 
IVA had been advised to RBS, at the time, and theyd voted in favour of and were bound by 
the arrangement.
As a result of the IVA, RBS placed the outstanding debt in default and recorded this on Mr W 
credit file with the credit reference agencies. Mr Ws debt was then managed by a dedicated 
recoveries team, operated by a third party on behalf of RBS.
Mr Ws IVA completed in July 2020. The IP issued a certificate to him confirming this. This 
released Mr W from any further liability to the unsecured creditors bound by the 
arrangement.
In October 2021, Mr W was trying to port his mortgage. He discovered RBS were still 
reporting the debt to the credit reference agencies as in default and outstanding. He didnt 
think this was right, so he complained to RBS. He thought they shouldve written off the 
remaining debt and removed the default from his credit file.
RBS replied to Mr W in October 2021. They said the default would remain on Mr Ws credit 
file for six years and they hadnt made an error. Mr W didnt agree with RBS. He thought 
they should remove the default from his credit file. He said RBSs actions had caused him 
significant distress and worry which led to stress related health problems. So, Mr W decided 
to refer his complaint to this service.
Having looked into Mr Ws complaint, our investigator agreed RBS hadnt treated him fairly. 
But this was for slightly different reasons. Our investigator found that upon completion of the 
IVA, RBS shouldve written off any remaining debt. They should also have updated Mr Ws 
credit file to show the debt as partially satisfied. But they hadnt done that here. Our 
investigator thought RBS should pay compensation of £200 to Mr W to reflect any distress 
and inconvenience caused.
RBS agreed with our investigators findings and recommendation.
Mr W didnt agree with the amount suggested. He thought RBS should pay him £750. He 
said hed been offered this by another business in respect of a complaint. He thought this 
better reflected the impact on him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ws complaint has been referred to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An IVA is a flexible procedure allowing Mr W to compromise with his creditors. Its a 
recognised insolvency process and acts as an alternative to bankruptcy. It includes all 
unsecured debts owed by Mr W and details an agreed level of repayment over an agreed 
time period. At the end of the process, the unsecured creditors within the IVA then write off 
any remaining debt and release Mr W from any further liability. 
An IVA must be approved by at least 75% of the voting creditors based upon the level of 
debt owed. A supervisor is appointed and agreed by the creditors to administer the IVA. This 
is a licensed IP. The IP is also responsible for notifying any progress under the IVA, 
including its eventual completion.
Ive been provided with, and looked at, various documents from RBS, Mr W and the IP who 
supervised Mr Ws IVA.
Mr W provided a copy of his credit file which shows the debt with RBS in default together 
with an outstanding balance owed. 
The IP has provided a copy of his closing report. This is a document summarising the 
position within the IVA at the point of completion. It shows all funds recovered and 
distributed to Mr Ws creditors. It also confirms completion of the IVA. In this case, around 
the end of July 2020. 
RBS said they hadnt been informed of the IVAs completion. They said they check the 
individual insolvency register regularly for any updates using the insolvency direct website. 
In Mr Ws case, they say they hadnt received any updates since 2018.
The IP provided evidence to show that all the update documents issued, including the 
closing report, were sent to RBSs recovery team. This also shows the documents were 
recovered and downloaded by RBSs recovery team. In particular, they downloaded the 
completion report the day after it was sent to them. The IP did admit that the individual 
insolvency register hadnt been updated - this has since been updated. But I believe RBS 
were sufficiently made aware of the IVAs completion to prompt them to update their files 
and records.
Ive considered the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies. These are set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
They confirm that a default should be registered when a lender is notified that a debt owed to 
them is included in an insolvency process. This includes an IVA. So, RBS were right to 
record the default on Mr Ws credit file. 
The principles also say that if full or part payment is received and no further money is 
expected, the account should be closed. The account should be marked as fully paid if the 
amount owed was paid in full. The record should be marked as partially settled if the lender 
accepts settlement for an amount less than the balance owed. In Mr Ws case, the amount 
owed wasnt repaid in full under the IVA. So, RBS shouldve reported this as partially settled. 
But while the default will remain, it shouldnt be reported as an active account anymore.
I believe RBS were adequately notified of the completion of Mr Ws IVA. So, they shouldve 
updated his credit file in line with the ICOs principals. RBS have confirmed theyve now 
done this. But I think they shouldve done this sooner. So, I will reflect that within my 
decision.
Mr W believes RBSs mistake had a negative impact on his credit file causing problems 
when he tried to port his mortgage. I accept RBS made a mistake here. But its relevant to 
say that the IVA, and the default, will still remain on Mr Ws credit file for six years. So, I cant 
fairly say that RBSs mistake wouldve been the sole reason Mr W experienced problems. 
Mortgage applications consider many things, including all of the information recorded on Mr 
Ws credit file. I very sorry to hear that Mr W has experienced a number of health difficulties. He says this is 
due to the financial stresses hes experienced. Compensation is a personal thing. What is 
seen as reasonable by one party may not be considered so by another. Mr W did experience 
some inconvenience. But I think the amount suggested feels fair in all the circumstances 
here. I appreciate that Mr W doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards 
in order to punish RBS for their mistakes. Any award is based upon the impact RBSs 
mistake had upon Mr W. And I think it does that here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay compensation of £200 to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman