DRN-3661965
The complaint
Miss W complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Miss W holds a current account with Monzo. In 2020 she tried to arrange three holidays 
through a travel agent. The agent offered holiday bookings at a good discount. Miss W 
explains she knew the agent personally, had used them before and knew of other people 
whod the same agent to book their holidays. 
So, when Miss W made payments in 2020 to the agent, she had no reason to doubt that the 
agent was anything other than legitimate. Between February and July 2020, Miss W sent 
three payments for a total sum of £2,363. Each of these payments was sent as a bank 
transfer from her Monzo account. 
However, the agent didnt provide what Miss W had paid for, and Miss W subsequently 
learned the agent was being investigated by the Police for fraud.
Miss W raised the matter with Monzo, explaining shed lost the money shed paid to the 
agent in good faith, and now believed the matter to have been a scam. In other words, that 
the agent had obtained the money from Miss W through deliberate deception and had no 
intention of providing the holidays Miss W had paid for.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Monzo didnt refund Miss W. It didnt think Miss W had been the victim of a scam. It said she 
had a civil dispute with the travel agent. Because Monzo didnt think Miss W was the victim 
of an APP scam, it didnt think the CRM Code applied to the money shed lost, and so didnt 
think it was liable to reimburse her. However, Monzo paid Miss W £100 because it 
considered it could have handled her fraud claim more promptly. 
Miss W didnt accept this and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into Miss Ws complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. 
The Investigator thought the evidence indicated this had been an APP scam and the 
payments should have been considered under the CRM Code. He didnt think any of the 
CRM Codes exceptions to reimbursement could fairly be applied by Monzo. The 
Investigator said that under the CRM Code, Miss W should have been refunded in full by 
Monzo. 
Monzo maintained its position. It noted:
Miss W had sent her payments to a legitimate business with which shed previously 
transacted successfully, as had others. The business owner had been a family friend 
of Miss W.
Given the above, the bank remained of the view that this had not been an APP scam, 
and instead was a civil matter. It didnt think the CRM Code should apply, and so it 
didnt need to reimburse Miss W for her losses.
Monzo requested that an ombudsman should review the matter and reach a final decision.
The agent to whom Miss W sent her payments has since been found guilty on charges of 
fraud and theft, being reported as having embezzled funds from clients booking holidays. 
Comments from the Police about the case indicate that the agent had traded legitimately 
until a few years before Miss W made the disputed payments but had subsequently operated 
fraudulently. The agent was found to have deliberately misled and defrauded friends and 
family and has been sentenced to imprisonment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same outcome as that reached by our 
Investigator. I have set out my reasons below. 
In summary, I am satisfied that:
The relevant payments fall within the scope of the CRM Code. I consider Miss W was 
the victim of an APP scam here. The agent does not appear to have ever had the 
intent of booking the holidays Miss W was attempting to purchase, but rather had the 
intent to defraud. There now does not appear to be any realistic prospect of Miss W 
recovering money from the agent, and she has suffered a financial loss due to the 
transactions. I do not consider this to be the type of civil matter excluded under the 
CRM Code.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss W 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
Monzo should have responded to Miss Ws claim under the CRM Code within the 
fifteen business days permitted under the codes provisions. As she first reported the 
scam to Monzo on 7 January 2021, that means Monzo should have given her a 
response to her claim by 22 January 2021 at the latest.
In the circumstances, Monzo should now fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Miss W lost.
Out of the total of £2,363 that was lost to the scam, Miss W paid a total of £958.50 
from her own savings, with the remainder coming from money loaned to her by 
friends. Had Monzo had reimbursed Miss W when it should have done, Miss W 
would have most likely repaid her friends the debts she then owed and returned her 
own portion back to a Monzo savings pot. Given these sums owed, the financial loss 
to Miss W was the whole amount of £2,363.
Because Miss W would likely have saved the remainder (the sum excluding the debts 
owed to her friends) Monzo should also pay interest on Miss Ws own £958.50 at the rates that would have been applicable for a savings pot on her account. This interest 
should apply from 22 January 2021 (the date by which Monzo ought to have 
responded to Miss Ws claim under the CRM Code) until the date of settlement. 
I have carefully considered Monzos representations  including those given in response to 
our Investigators assessment  detailing the reasons it considers Miss W should not be 
refunded under the CRM Code. But these do not persuade me to reach a different view 
here. I am satisfied the CRM Code applies to her payments, and I am not persuaded that 
Monzo can fairly apply any of the exceptions to full reimbursement under that code.
Firstly, I am satisfied the CRM Code applies here for the following reasons:
While the business Miss W paid appears to have traded legitimately in previous 
years, Im satisfied that by the time Miss W made her three payments in 2020, the 
agent did not intend to supply what Miss W had paid for. 
So, based on the evidence I have seen, Miss W wasnt paying a legitimate business 
when she sent these three payments. I consider that this was a deception designed 
to defraud Miss W of money she paid in good faith. In other words, the agent was 
obtaining money by deception. I therefore find the exclusion in the CRM Code 
covering private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate 
supplier has not been fairly applied by Monzo, and this case should not be 
excluded on that basis. I find Miss W was the victim of an APP scam and one within 
the remit of the CRM Code.
Given the above, and in all the circumstances, I am satisfied these payments fall 
under the remit of the CRM Code, to which Monzo has agreed to adhere. It follows 
that the CRM Code is applicable to Miss Ws losses.
While it is only more recently that the agent has been convicted, I can see that 
Miss W provided details of the Police involvement to Monzo at the time she reported 
the matter to the bank, including that the Police had forcibly shut down the agents 
website. Im satisfied there was sufficient evidence available at the time for Monzo to 
have reached the conclusion that this had most likely been an APP scam.
Secondly, Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that any of the permitted exceptions to full 
reimbursement under the CRM Code can fairly be applied here. In particular, I am not 
persuaded that Monzo has established that Miss W made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing the transactions and agent to be legitimate at the time, or that 
Miss W ignored an Effective Warning given in compliance with the CRM Code.
I say this because:
Im satisfied Miss W held a reasonable for believing the agent was legitimate - based 
on her previous experience of transactions with that agent. While it is now apparent 
that by 2020 the agent was no longer operating a legitimate business, Miss W had no 
reason to suspect that at the time. Monzo hasnt established that Miss W made these 
payments without holding a reasonable basis for believing each transaction was 
legitimate. 
Monzo says it provided a relevant scam warning at the time of at least one of the 
payments. It hasnt evidenced exactly which of a range of possible warning 
messages was given. Instead, it has provided a list of sample warnings showing what 
might have been displayed at the time. The sample warnings Monzo has evidenced, 
in part, intend to warn customers about potential scams they may be at risk of. While each of the possible warnings highlight multiple potential scams, Im not persuaded 
any one of them bring to life what the type of scam Miss W was falling victim to would 
look like. Nor would these have been likely to result in the prevention of this type of 
scam. So, I dont think Monzo has established it can deny Miss W reimbursement in 
reliance on the exception for ignoring an Effective Warning.
Monzo hasnt argued that any of the other exceptions to reimbursement should 
apply, and I dont find any of those have been established by Monzo or could 
otherwise fairly be applied by Monzo.
In summary, I find that the CRM Code is applicable here. I find that Monzo cannot fairly rely 
on any of the exceptions to full reimbursement under the CRM Code in Miss Ws case. 
Miss W is entitled to be fully reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of the CRM Code.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Miss W the following:
the sum she lost  a total of £2,363 less any funds that have already been returned 
to Miss W  within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision; plus,
interest at the rate that would have been applicable had the money been kept in 
Miss Ws savings pot with Monzo. This interest should be applied to the sum of 
£958.50  that being the portion of the loss that came from Miss Ws savings. Interest 
on that amount should be calculated (less any tax properly deductible) from 22 
January 2021 to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Miss W ought to have been fully refunded 
by Monzo Bank Ltd for the losses she incurred due to this scam. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman