DRN-3244965
The complaint
Mr C has complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined to assist him when he contacted 
them for emergency assistance with his heating system. Hes also complained that AWP 
havent provided him with copies of all of the telephone calls relevant to his claim.
What happened
Mr C experienced problems with his heating system in late March/early April 2020 and 
contacted AWP for assistance. AWP informed him that the problems hed reported werent 
covered by his home emergency policy. Mr C then had to employ a plumber directly in 
July 2020 to resolve the issue. He believes that the repair should have been covered by the 
home emergency policy, on the basis that it was an emergency. 
Mr C complained to AWP, who issued their final response letter, not upholding his complaint 
on 3 June 2020. In summary they said, the decision to decline to provide assistance had 
been correctly made, as Mr C wasnt experiencing an emergency. This was based on Mr Cs 
explanation, when contacting AWP to make the claim, that he did have access to hot water 
and heating but needed to keep topping up the system. AWP explained that the policy terms 
and conditions only provide for an engineer to attend where theres been a complete failure 
of the heating and or water supply.
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mr C brought his concerns to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint, and issued her views on 17 December 2021 and 
24 December 2021, not upholding the complaints. She explained that AWP had acted in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions, in declining to provide Mr C with 
assistance, and concluded theyd acted reasonably in providing Mr C with the call recordings 
available to them. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators views, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained in detail why she didnt agree Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld. Having considered all the available evidence, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as 
our investigator, and for the same reasons.
Ive first considered Mr Cs complaint about AWPs failure to provide him with copies of call 
recordings for all of the calls he had with them. Ive considered the evidence provided by 
AWP which shows that searches of their systems were undertaken to locate any call 
recordings relevant to Mr Cs claim. Having done so, Im satisfied that AWP made 
reasonable attempts to locate any such recordings and proceeded to share the recordings 
they had, with Mr C. I therefore dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about AWPs inability to 
provide him with all of the call recordings hes referred to.
Ive next considered Mr Cs complaint about AWPs refusal to provide him with assistance, 
under the terms of his home emergency policy, on the basis that he hadnt contacted them 
about an emergency.
In the calls that Ive listened to and the evidence Ive considered, its clear that the issue 
Mr C was seeking home emergency assistance for was not a one-off event. He explained to 
AWP that the problem had been recurring for a couple of weeks, and hed been able to 
resolve it temporarily, every couple of days. AWP said that on the basis it wasnt an 
emergency leading to complete failure of the heating and/or hot water supply, and as 
Mr C hadnt reported it within 48 hours of first discovering the issue, assistance wouldnt be 
provided.
I understand that Mr C believes there are other call recordings which are relevant to his 
complaint. However, I have to make my decision based on the available evidence. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision on the basis of 
the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not happened. Having 
considered the available evidence and policy terms and conditions, I dont think AWP have 
done anything wrong in declining to provide Mr C with assistance under his home 
emergency policy. I will explain why.
Mr C is claiming under a home emergency policy. So, the event claimed for needs to fall 
under the definition of emergency to constitute an insured peril thats covered by the policy. 
Mr Cs policy defines an emergency as:
A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly 
willresult in your home losing its main source of heating.
When he first requested assistance, Mr C explained during the calls with AWP and their 
agent that the issues had been ongoing over a period of two weeks. He explained that hed 
been managing the problem by topping up the system every couple of days, however, he 
noticed it was getting worse.
I agree with AWP that the set of circumstances described by Mr C did not constitute an 
emergency. It was not a sudden and unforeseen situation that needed to be dealt with 
quickly. So, the event Mr C was requesting assistance with, was not an insured peril covered 
by the policy.
The policy terms and conditions go on to set out what is covered by the policy, which 
includes: 
Complete failure or breakdown of either the heating and/or hot-water supply 
provided by the primary heating system.
Mr C had not suffered a complete failure or breakdown of the heating and/or hot water 
supply. He confirmed on the calls with AWP and their agent, that he still had some heating 
and hot water, although he had to manually intervene in the system to get it restarted, 
periodically. 
On one of the calls Mr C did say that the heating had failed at the point that he made the call 
to AWP for assistance. However, that was not a one-off event. And it was not an event that 
was notified to AWP within 48 hours of first discovering the emergency as required by the 
following general condition: We will only pay the benefits under this policy if you contact us first within 48 hours 
of discovering the emergency.
Home emergency policies like Mr Cs only cover emergencies caused by sudden, 
unexpected events. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AWP shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. However, as Mr Cs claim didnt meet the definitions under the terms 
and conditions of the policy, of an emergency or a breakdown, he doesnt have an eligible 
claim. So, I cant say AWP has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to offer assistance 
under the policy and rejecting Mr Cs claim. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman