DRN-2662138
complaint
Ms W complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB) mis-sold her an accident, sickness and
unemployment insurance - a type of payment protection insurance - in connection with
a One Bill account. STB calls this a payment protection plan (PPP). Ill refer to the insurance
as PPP to keep things simple.
background 
A One Bill account was a type of account used as a way of managing household bills. The
consumer would pay a weekly amount which would then be used to pay monthly bills. Ms W
applied for the PPP in 1999 at the same time as opening the account.
In 2001, a third party was added to the One Bill account and PPP was then sold to the third
party. Ms W was no longer covered by any PPP after this point and the third party is also not
a party to this complaint. Ive written to both STB and Ms W separately to explain that as that
third party is not a party to this complaint, Im unable to consider the sale of that PPP and
any premiums paid after that date. 
So, to be clear, Ive only looked at the original sale of the PPP in 1999, and only considered 
the premiums paid up until Ms W ceased to be covered by the PPP in 2001.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. But STB didnt agree with our
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 3 February 2021, I set out why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither STB nor Mrs W made any further comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Currently, I think Ms Ws complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
STB needed to give Ms W clear, fair and not-misleading information about the cost of the
policy so that she could make an informed decision whether to buy it or not. I dont think STB
did this.
Ive seen a copy of Ms Ws application form from the time of sale and can see the cost was
not explained on there. STB has provided copies of other documentation such as policy
terms and summaries  but I dont know whether Ms W wouldve seen these or had time to
read them before she agreed to buy the PPI.
In any event, my understanding is that the PPP premiums were charged monthly and were
calculated on the amount of monthly bill payment. And the cost of the PPP was presented as
being xp per £1 unit.
STB has previously told us customers could calculate the cost of the policy to within a
reasonable degree of accuracy by calculating their weekly or monthly bill payment, plus the
One Bill account management fee and multiplying that by the pence per pound figure.
I dont think this was a clear way of expressing the cost of the policy. I dont think it is
reasonable to expect a consumer to carry out a calculation to work out what their premiums
might be. So, Im not satisfied that this would have been good enough for Ms W to
understand how much she would have to pay for the insurance at the start of the policy.
Also, without further explanation, I dont think this would have made it clear that the cost
could increase if and when the monthly amounts Ms W paid into her One Bill account went
up to allow for any rise in household bills.
I think that this information would have mattered to Ms W, as her decision to use a One Bill
account makes me think she had a need to keep a close eye on her household expenditure.
So, its likely that fully understanding the cost of the cover would have been very important
for her. And I think she would only have taken the insurance if she had felt that it was good
value in her circumstances.
Taking into account her circumstances, I havent seen anything to suggest Ms W would have
been prepared to pay for the PPP for the financial security it provided, if shed properly
understood the cost.
This means that I dont think that Ms W would have taken out the policy if shed received
clear information about its cost. So I think that Ms W has lost out because of STBs
failure to clearly explain the policys cost.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I uphold this 
complaint. 
putting things right
 STB should put Ms W into the position shed be in now if she had never taken out
the policy.  From the start date of the policy, until Ms W ceased to be covered under the 
policy, STB should:
A. Pay Ms W the amount she paid each month for the policy.
B. Add simple interest to each payment from when Ms W paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% simple a year. 
C. STB can take off the amount Ms W got for any successful claims from the amount it 
owes her.
D. STB should tell Ms W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires STB to take off tax from this interest. STB must give Ms W a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ws complaint against Secure Trust Bank Plc 
and direct it to pay the fair compensation outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman