The complaint
Mr H has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI in 2004 at the same time as applying for the credit card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H originally said that he was informed that the PPI covered him for unemployment or long 
term illness but that the terms of the policy were not fully explained. After our adjudicator 
made her assessment, Mr H responded by saying that he didnt know that hed had PPI on 
the credit card account. These statements are slightly at odds with each other and so I am 
not persuaded that Mr H has any real recollection of taking out the PPI, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs application form which he would have completed on his own at 
home and then returned by post. The form includes a statement about PPI that says: Please 
enrol me in Capital Ones Payment Protection Scheme (see leaflet enclosed). Next to this 
statement are yes and no boxes that could be ticked to either request or decline the PPI. 
Mr H has ticked the yes box. He could have ticked the no box or left the whole section 
blank if he hadnt wanted PPI.
We sent Mr H a copy of the application form. His response was that he feels the policy was 
sold to him over the phone and that he was persuaded to have it. The form is of the type that 
is solely a postal application form and there wouldnt normally be any interaction with Capital 
One staff at the point of filling it in. Overall, Im not persuaded that I can rely on Mr Hs 
memory of events. I think it is most likely that Mr H filled in the form himself with no input 
from an adviser. Given the layout and wording of the form, I think that Mr H would have 
known that he had a choice about buying the policy. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
DRN-1912293Capital One didnt advise Mr H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr H with enough information for him to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
It is clear from the application form that there was a PPI leaflet attached to the form. I think 
that Mr H would have known something about the policy  that it would protect his 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because 
I dont think hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mr H has said he wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy. But I havent seen anything 
about his circumstances to suggest that it would have been less easy for him to make a 
claim than anyone else. Mr H cant remember if hed have received any sick pay from his 
job. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer 
than Mr H would have received full pay for. And Mr H has said that he probably only had 
minimal savings at the time. So I think that Mr H had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Capital One didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr H had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Capital One has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H
about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to  Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman