DRN-2842924
The complaint
This complaint relates to the compensation (or redress) received from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC in relation to unfair commission. 
The commission was incurred by Mr L over a number of years, as part of payment protection 
insurance (PPI) premiums he had paid. The PPI was taken out in 1995 and protected Mr Ls 
credit card account by insuring him against losing his job or being unable to work.
What happened
I can see that Mr L has already complained about the PPI being wholly mis-sold to him. This 
complaint wasnt upheld by the business, but it did offer to pay some money back. This was 
for the commission it received from selling him the PPI over the time he had the card. 
This redress resulted from recently introduced rules, issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), which broadly said a commission level above 50% of the overall PPI 
premiums would most likely constitute unfairness.
Mr L implies the redress he received from Barclays wasnt enough, or at least, he doesnt 
fully understand the calculations Barclays made to arrive at the end figure.
Our adjudicator looked at what Mr L had said and responded by saying they didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint.
However, let me set out by saying I fully understand the issues raised by Mr L  he doesnt 
fully understand the calculations and is worried they may be wrong. As the original PPI sale 
was so long ago, Barclays doesnt have all the records available anymore to precisely 
calculate everything he spent on the account over the years. This isnt unusual, however, 
given how long ago this all was and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.
I should also point out that I am not addressing the issue of the PPI policy being mis-sold 
here, as that has already been dealt with. I am only looking into the complaint Mr L makes 
about the commission element of the PPI being potentially wrong.
Weve seen many similar Barclays PPI complaints. So we know quite a bit about the types of 
redress it offers and how this is calculated. And in my experience, I also know Barclays has 
been calculating this type of commission redress in accordance with the rules laid out by the 
FCA. 
Mr L himself hasnt provided any evidence as to what aspects of the redress is wrong or why 
he thinks hes been underpaid. On the other hand, I note Barclays sent Mr L a letter on 17 
June 2020 comprehensively setting out how it had calculated the redress. In my view this 
letter is in accordance with what we expect to see and it clearly articulated the different 
elements of what Mr Ls redress comprises of.
Im sorry to hear that that Mr L does not understand the different parts of Barclays 
calculations. However, our adjudicator did attempt to explain the figures used, and from what 
I myself can see, I think the process Barclays followed is in accordance to all the other 
similar cases Ive had to deal with regarding PPI commission. I think the amount offered is 
more like to be correct. I think Barclays will have had to make certain assumptions about the 
amount Mr L spent on his card back in the 1990s, for example, to help arrive at an end 
figure. But as Ive said, this is reasonable, and probably because all the card account 
statements from so far back will most likely not be available anymore.
Unfortunately, our role here does not extend to explaining personal financial information on 
consumers accounts to them. However, there is general help on our website about PPI 
commission, and more widely on the internet. I sympathise that Mr L has found Barclays to 
be unresponsive by post after he received a final response about all this, so he may find a 
branch of the bank can explain the issues he finds hard to understand. I also appreciate he 
is unhappy, generally, with the customer service he says hes had, but Im afraid these 
issues dont fall within our remit.
In summary, I think Barclays has most likely followed the correct redress procedures and 
issued the correct amount of compensation (within the constraints I mentioned above). It 
doesnt need to do anything more. 
Alternatively, if Barclays wishes to reach out to Mr L to explain the figures in a way that he 
better understands, I think this would be greatly appreciated.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman