DRN-2334841
The complaint
Mr U has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to pursue him 
for the costs of a third party claim and decision not to meet his claim for damage to his car.
 
What happened
Mr U reported being involved in an accident with another car to his insurer, Admiral in 
February 2017. He said he hit the rear of a third party car as it had stopped to turn into a 
side road in front of him. Mr U didnt report any injuries to him or his passenger. 
Admiral dealt with the claim from the third party. In the meantime Mr U had missed payments 
under his policy, and Admiral told him hed need to pay these before it could deal with his 
claim.
Mr U said the third party arranged recovery of his car. 
Ten months later the passenger of Mr Us car contacted Admiral to make a claim for 
personal injury for him and another passenger. Admiral obtained statements from Mr U, and 
both of the passengers.
Admiral found inconsistencies in the information provided when Mr U first reported the 
incident, and in the accounts provided by the passengers claiming for injury. Due to its 
concerns, Admiral said it intended to pursue Mr U for the costs of the claim. 
Mr U didnt agree with Admirals decision, so he complained. But Admiral said is decision 
was correct. So Mr U asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Admiral to reverse its 
decision and meet his claim for his losses. He said their decision has caused him 
considerable stress. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted reasonably in applying is fraud exclusion under 
the policy. 
Mr U wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral can decline a claim and cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has 
been breached. In this case, Admiral say, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr U did 
breach the fraud condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy 
in relation to this, and they say:
If you or anyone acting for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information 
at any time during the policy that would impact either the terms and conditions out 
ability to offer itself, your policy and all other policies to which you are connected 
through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover any costs we 
have incurred and will not return any premium.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, Admiral is 
entitled to cancel the insurance policy and not meet a claim if it wants to. In this case, 
Admiral cancelled Mr Us policy, having giving notice of cancellation, as Mr Us premiums 
werent up to date under the policy and credit agreement. Mr U reported the incident the day 
before the policy was due to cancel.  
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need 
to decide if Admiral acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it 
has.
So Ive looked at what Admiral has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
Admiral has provided transcript notes of when Mr U first reported the incident in February 
2017, the day after the event. He told Admiral that he was with his son when the incident 
happened. He said they were going to pick up his sons friend. Admiral asked if everybody 
was ok. Mr U said, they were saying they were ok. So from what Mr U said, there was no 
indication of injury from the parties involved at the time the incident was reported. 
Ten months later, Admiral was contacted by Mr Us son and another person, Mr I, who said 
he was also a passenger in Mr Us car at the time of the incident. Mr Us son said hed 
suffered injuries including cuts to his face, resulting in a visit to hospital and a GP and 
several weeks off work. Mr Us son and Mr I intended to claim for injuries.  Due to the length 
of time that had passed, and the new information, Admiral carried out further investigations. 
Statements provided by Mr Us son and Mr I showed further inconsistencies. Mr I told 
Admiral he didnt know the third party. But Admiral discovered that Mr I had been involved in 
a previous claim as a passenger in the third partys vehicle. And the third party under a 
separate claim had arranged for his car to be repaired through a vehicle management repair 
company. Admirals enquiries showed that Mr I was the Director of the repair company. So 
Admiral was satisfied that the information showed that the third party and Mr I knew each 
other. Mr I said Mr U had picked him up before the incident happened. Mr U told Admiral the 
incident happened on their way to picking his sons friend up. Both Mr I and Mr Us son 
made no reference to their claimed injuries in their signed statements. 
Admiral asked Mr Us son and the passenger to respond to its concerns, but they didnt 
reply. 
Mr U says he didnt know that his sons friend knew the third party. 
However, I think it was reasonable of Admiral to carry out further enquiries when it received 
a claim for injury many months after the claim. And I think I was fair to expect such injuries to 
be mentioned in the initial call, as well as the number of passengers. 
I understand Mr U is upset about Admirals decision. But taking all of its concerns together, I 
think Admirals decision to reject Mr Us claim and pursue him for the costs of the third party 
claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. I think it had sufficient evidence to apply the 
fraud exclusion under the policy. And this means I dont think Admiral is responsible for 
meeting Mr Us claim for his losses.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman