DRN-2077329
The complaint
Mr D complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) added a late 
payment marker to his credit report following a missed payment. 
What happened
Mr D brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response hed received from 
Tesco to his complaint. He told us in July 2019 he did not get his statement so didnt make a 
payment on time. He was concerned about the impact the missed payment marker would 
have on his credit record. And thought this was unfair as the error was Tescos as hed not 
received the statement or any payment reminder from them.
When Mr D first called Tesco in July 2019 to report his concerns, they agreed to refund the 
late payment fee and reinstate the promotional interest rate on his account as a gesture of 
goodwill.
In their Final Response to Mr Ds complaint on 1 August 2019 Tesco told him they wouldnt 
uphold his complaint and amend his credit record as they thought there had been no error by 
the bank. They said when Mr D applied for his card, theyd agreed to lend to him on the 
basis the minimum payment was received in full and on time each month. If not, a £12 late 
payment fee was applied in line with the terms and conditions. Tesco told Mr D they could 
confirm his paper statement was issued to his address in good time and hadn't been 
returned to them. Tesco said they couldnt control the delivery process once theyd issued a 
statement. And as the primary card holder, it was Mr Ds responsibility to ensure the 
contractual payment was received on time. They also told Mr D they had a legal obligation to 
report an accurate reflection of his account management to the Credit Reference Agencies. 
So as there had been no banking error here Tesco said they werent permitted to amend his 
credit file as hed asked. 
Our investigator could see from the statements the minimum payment due on 21 June 2019 
wasnt paid and thought the terms and conditions Mr D signed when setting up the account 
explained the consequences of a missed payment. Hed also seen a screenshot showing the 
issuing of paper statements to Mr D  at the correct address - and there was no indication 
there had been any error with the generation of those statements or that theyd been 
returned by the postal service. So, he thought Tesco has done everything fairly expected of 
them and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He said he had no texts 
or other alerts to tell him a payment was due despite the bank having all his details to do 
this. He later confirmed to the investigator he would have set such alerts up. Tesco said 
such alerts were managed solely by a customer via the online banking and were an 
additional facility offered to help customers not something theyre required to provide. And 
they told us they hadnt investigated a complaint about the alerts Mr D now said weren't sent
Tesco said if Mr D wanted to pursue this, it would need to be raised to them as a new 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the view that this isnt a complaint which I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold. Ill explain why.
No one disputes that the minimum payment due on 21 June 2019 wasnt paid. The 
information Tesco have sent satisfies me the statement dated 27 May 2019, in which that 
minimum payment was set out was generated for Mr D at the correct address. And Ive no 
reason to doubt Tesco when they say the system would only show that once the statement 
has been dispatched. So, although I acknowledge Mr D has told us he didnt receive this 
statement - and thats why he missed the payment  on balance, Im satisfied it was sent. I 
dont know why it is that Mr D didnt receive this statement. But I cannot safely conclude that 
missing statement is as a result of something Tesco has done wrong. Particularly as Mr D 
appears to have received the earlier ones from 27 March and 27 April 2019 as hes made 
the minimum payments set out in those. 
Its Mr Ds responsibility to manage this account within the terms and conditions and to make 
the minimum payment. Given that responsibility, if he didnt receive the paper statement 
relating to the payment due on 21 June 2019, I think he ought to have queried that. 
Particularly knowing hed opened this account in March 2019 with a promotional rate of 
interest that could be withdrawn if a minimum payment was missed and knowing the timing 
of the previous minimum monthly payments hed made in April and May 2019. In addition to 
the paper statements Mr D also had the ability to check the account online. Ive no reason to 
believe he was prevented from accessing this online facility as hes told us hed set up alerts 
within it. So, for these reasons, I dont think its reasonable to hold Tesco responsible for the 
missed payment.
Mr D may wish to may want to pursue further the concerns hes expressed about the online 
alerts. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Tesco 
about the missed payments and statements  can do for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman