DRN-4235754
The complaint
The trustees of a trust I will refer to as G complain about the decision of QIC Europe Ltd to 
decline their commercial property insurance claim. 
Mr M, the beneficiary of the trust, is acting in the complaint as a representative of G.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Additionally, whilst a number of 
individuals have been involved, Ive largely just referred to Mr M, G and QIC.
G owns and rents out commercial property. It held an insurance policy underwritten by QIC. 
In July 2020, Mr M became aware of an issue at its property and upon investigating found 
the property vacant and that it had been recently used as a cannabis farm. The property 
had suffered significant damage and a claim for this was made with QIC. 
Ultimately, QIC declined the claim on the basis that the property was unoccupied at the time 
of the damage. QIC said that rent on the property had not been paid for five months, and G 
should have been aware that the premises were unoccupied. QIC said that it was a condition 
precedent of the policy that G was required to secure the unoccupied property and inspect it 
every 7 days, and to inform QIC of the unoccupied status of the premises. QIC said that G 
had not done this, and this had increased the risk of damage. 
Mr M was unhappy with this. In part, he said that G had not been aware the tenant was no 
longer at the premises, due in part to the COVID-19 pandemic arising around the same time. 
Mr M pointed to government advice around tenants and rent at this time. So, Mr M did not 
consider it appropriate for QIC to rely on this condition to decline the policy. 
Mr M referred the complaint about QICs decision to the Financial Ombudsman Service, on 
Gs behalf. However, our Investigator did not recommend it be upheld. He thought that QIC 
had acted reasonably by considering G should have been aware of the lack of rent being 
paid and to have queried this further at the time. He didnt think the Government guidance 
changed this. He also did not consider QIC had relaxed its requirements around 
unoccupancy. 
Ultimately, he thought that, as G had failed to adhere to the conditions precedent, this had 
increased the risk of damage being caused. So, QIC had not acted inappropriately by 
declining the claim. 
Mr M remained unsatisfied. He said that there was a valid tenancy agreement in place, so 
the property was not unoccupied as per the policy definition. And that as a tenant has the 
right to quiet enjoyment, G had no right to enter the premises before the damage was 
discovered. 
As our Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M has said that he does not consider the definition of unoccupied in the policy to have 
been met in the circumstances. This definition reads:
Any Premises part of any Premises or Residential Unit or Commercial Unit that for a 
Period exceeding 60 consecutive days is:
a) not occupied or;
b) untenanted or;
c) empty or no longer in use.
Mr M has said that as there was a valid tenancy agreement in place, the property was not 
untenanted. However, the other options in this definition would still be met. The policy does 
not require all of these  merely one. And the property was not occupied or in use by those 
who had a right to be there. I do not consider unauthorised occupation by a third party 
means the premises were not unoccupied. 
Mr M has provided reasons why G did not become aware of the tenant not occupying the 
premises for several months. He has said that the government instructions meant that G 
would not have been able to evict the tenants, and that both the pandemic and rights of the 
tenant meant that visiting and entering the premises during this period was not possible. 
However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. At the very least I would expect G to 
have tried to engage with the tenant to see whether there were any issues, either with 
payment or otherwise. And there is no evidence that this happened. Ultimately, given the 
lack of rental payments over the relevant duration, G ought reasonably to have investigated 
further and would then have discovered the unoccupancy. 
The policy has clear requirements in relation to a property that is, or becomes, unoccupied. 
These conditions include securing the property and inspecting it every seven days. As it did 
not discover the unoccupancy when it ought reasonably to have, G did not carry out these 
actions. And I consider that the risk of damage to the property clearly increased. So, I think 
that QIC is entitled to rely on these conditions precedent to decline the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman