DRN-3811957
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd failed to identify a car he bought had 
uncleared finance on it.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr A acquired a second-hand car which was funded by a finance agreement 
with Admiral. In May 2021, Mr A paid the outstanding balance of the agreement and sought 
to sell the car privately. However, he was unable to do so as he then discovered there was 
outstanding finance of some £2,000 to be paid on it with another lender from a previous 
purchase.
Mr A made a complaint to Admiral but it said it had completed a HPI check on the car before 
offering the finance and having identified there was a previous finance arrangement it had 
written to the dealer which had sold the car to instruct them to settle it. Admiral said that the 
dealer had confirmed the outstanding finance had been cleared. It added that the dealer 
confirmed to them that the outstanding finance was settled. Admiral said it had seen a bank 
statement confirming this and the dealer had received a letter confirming the settlement of 
the outstanding finance.
Admiral rejected Mr As complaint and suggested he take the matter up with the dealer. Mr A 
brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
recommended it be upheld.
He noted that the finance had since been settled and Mr A had been able to sell the car. It 
was sold for £17,000 in May 2022. However, he believed that Mr A had been unconvinced 
through no fault of his own and he suggested compensation of £150 be paid.
Mr A said he had lost out due to the delay in being able to sell the car as it had devalued 
during that time. He also explained that he was unable to use the car as if he had suffered 
an accident the insurer would pay out to the finance company. He had bought another car 
for his use.
Admiral supplied a copy of the dealers bank statement from 2019 which showed £20,000 
had been paid for the car.
I asked for further information and Mr A said he had not been told who paid off the 
outstanding finance. He confirmed he had bought a replacement car on 16 May 2021 funded 
by another finance agreement. He explained he had lost out on investing the money into his 
business.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
I have noted that Admiral relied on the dealer to confirm that the finance was cleared and it 
received reassurance that it was. Regrettably that was incorrect and Mr A was left in a 
position whereby he had car he wanted to sell, but he was unable to do so for some time. I 
consider he had a reasonable expectation that the car was free from anu finance and once 
he had paid off the money he had borrowed he should have been in a position to sell it as he 
wished.
How this situation arose is not clear, but I consider Admiral had a responsibility to ensure the 
car was sold free from finance and while it relied on what it was told I do not think Mr A 
should lose out because of this error. In short Admiral financed a car which already had 
finance on it and whether or not it was misled by the dealer or anybody else.
As a result of this Mr A has been inconvenienced and deprived of access to funds. He 
bought another car on finance, having paid off the £20,000 loan he had with Admiral. Had he 
been able to sell, the car he would have had the use of those funds either to buy the new car 
or invest elsewhere. He has explained that since the car was owned by the original finance 
company that any insurance pay out that might arise would go to it and not him. I consider it 
reasonable that he took steps to reduce his risk by keeping the car unused until he could sell 
it.
I think it is only fair that Mr A should be compensated for the distress and inconvenient he 
has suffered and he also be compensated for being deprived of the use of his money.
In such circumstances this service expects businesses to pay annual simple interest at 8% 
to cover the loss of use of funds. I think that should apply from the date Mr A bought his 
replacement car until he sold the old one. I also think Admiral should pay him compensation 
of £250 for distress and inconvenience. I think this is sufficient and that means I do not 
believe he should be compensated for any possible loss in value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has accepted my decision as has Admiral after obtaining clarification about the interest 
element of the redress. I can confirm that Admiral should pay 8% on £17,000 from the date 
Mr A bought his replacement car until he sold the old one. 
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr A interest for the loss of use of his money and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Admiral Financial Services Ltd to 
pay Mr A compensation of £250 and annual interest at 8% simple on £17,000 from the date 
Mr A bought his replacement car until he sold the old one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman