DRN-1959462
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Nationwide Building Societys (Nationwide) handling of three direct 
debit payments taken from his account in May, June and July 2019. He thinks Nationwide 
should refund the payments which he says were taken in error. 
What happened
Mr R booked a holiday with a well-known travel agent. He says he booked this in store. Mr R 
was expecting the first payment of £642.72 to be taken from his account in May 2019. 
Instead, £803.33 was taken, and taken on the wrong day. Mr R said as soon as he became 
aware the wrong amount had been taken, he cancelled his holiday, but doesnt have any 
paperwork to confirm this. 
A further payment of £840 was taken from Mr Rs account on 28 June 2019. Mr R has 
provided a copy of a letter he wrote to the travel agent dated 13 July 2019 asking it to cancel 
the holiday and refund the payments already taken from his account. Mr R says he handed 
this to an employee of the travel agent on 14 July 2019, which the employee signed. The 
following day, on 15 July 2019, Mr R says he wrote a letter to Nationwide, asking it to raise 
an indemnity under the Direct Debit Guarantee.  
Mr R says he took the letters to his local Nationwide branch. He says he handed them to a 
member of staff who was going to forward them to head office for him. He was accompanied 
to the branch by his carer, who has provided a witness statement to support Mr Rs account 
of what happened. 
The travel agent Mr R booked his holiday with is no longer trading. However, Mr R says as 
he raised the indemnity while the travel agent was still trading, he should be able to claim his 
money back under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme. 
Nationwide has provided a different version of events. It says it doesnt have a record of     
Mr R visiting the branch on 15 July 2019, when he says he handed in his letter. It also 
provided a recording of a conversation it had with Mr R on 21 September 2019. In this, Mr R 
said the holiday had been cancelled because the travel agent was going into administration. 
As a result, he needed to raise a direct debit indemnity. 
Nationwide says it would have expected Mr R to mention in this call that hed already tried to 
cancel the payments that had been taken from his account. Nationwide also says Mr R has 
given two different reasons for the payments to be cancelled. First, Mr R asked for them to 
be cancelled because the amounts and dates were wrong. Second, hed asked for them to 
be cancelled because the holiday had been cancelled. Nationwide said it wouldnt refund the 
payments, and Mr R needed to contact ATOL for a refund. 
As Mr R wasnt happy with Nationwides handling of his complaint, he asked this service to 
look into what had happened. During the course of our investigation, Nationwide told us Mr 
R had raised over 60 Direct Debit cancellations since the end of 2017, and these had been 
raised over the phone. It also said some VISA disputes had been raised by email in the past, 
but it didnt have any record of Mr R raising any disputes by letter. 
Nationwide told this service it didnt think Mr R had been truthful in saying in saying he had 
tried to cancel the direct debit in July. It also said Mr R needed to contact ATOL to try and 
obtain a refund for the holiday payments. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. And she reached the conclusion that 
Nationwide didnt need to do anything to put things right for Mr R. As Mr R didnt agree, this 
matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this has been going on for a long time for Mr R, and its caused him a lot of worry. 
Im sorry about this. However, having considered all the information available and what Mr R 
and Nationwide have told us, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for 
the same reasons, which Ill explain below.
Mr R indicated he only expected one payment to be made to the travel agent. Like the 
investigator, I wouldnt usually expect to see a direct debit set up for a single payment, as 
they usually relate to either a series of payments or ongoing agreement. However, I think its 
important to start by clarifying theres no dispute Mr R authorised the travel agent to set up a 
direct debit, and that in doing so, he was authorising them to take money from his account, 
and also authorising Nationwide to allow the payment.  
the payments from Mr Rs account 
Mr R says that he should have received a refund under the Direct Debit Guarantee. Ive 
considered what the guarantee says, and copied the relevant part below:
If an error is made in payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or by your 
bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the 
amount.
With the above in mind, Ive considered whether there was an error with the payments 
made. 
Mr R says he was expecting one payment of £642.72 from his account, not to see three 
payments taken from his account. However, Mr R hasnt provided any paperwork from the 
travel agent to show the schedule of payments for the holiday. 
Im not discounting what Mr R has told us. However, on balance, without sight of a physical 
payment schedule from the travel agent or the original direct debit agreement, I cant say the 
wrong amount was taken from Mr Rs account.
Ive considered whether the payments were taken on the wrong dates. As a starting point, Id 
usually consider the payment schedule when deciding if a payment had been taken on the 
wrong day. However, this isnt available, so Ive considered what the terms and conditions of 
Mr Rs account say when referring to payments made from the account:Payments are made on working days only. Payments due to be made on a weekend 
or bank holiday will be sent on the next working day.  
28 May and 28 June 2019 were both weekdays and the payments were taken on these 
days. However, 28 July 2019 was a weekend day, so the payment was taken from Mr Rs 
account the following day. Having considered these terms and conditions, Im satisfied 
Nationwide acted correctly in allowing these payments to be taken.  
 Mr Rs letters
Ill turn now to Mr Rs point about his intended cancellation of the holiday in July 2019. Mr R 
says on this basis the payment on 29 July 2019 shouldnt have been taken.
Mr R says he gave letters to both the travel agent asking them to cancel the holiday, and to 
Nationwide, asking it to cancel the direct debit.
Ive considered the letter to the travel agent first. And in these circumstances, Id expect to 
see Mr R provide some form of written confirmation, on letterhead paper, that the holiday 
had been cancelled. Mr R has said he no longer holds these records. However, given Mr R 
has already said he only expected one payment to be taken (the May payment) which was 
for more than he expected, which was followed by another payment in June, I would have 
expected Mr R to retain this paperwork. 
Ill turn now to the letter Mr R says he took to Nationwide. As our investigator said, 
Nationwide keep contact notes of Mr Rs phone calls and visits to the branch. But 
Nationwides notes dont have any record of Mr R attempting to cancel the direct debit until 
September 2019. Mr R has suggested the staff member should be interviewed, however I 
dont agree this would help. Because I would have expected the staff members recollections 
of the visit to have, essentially, formed the contact note. But there is no corresponding 
contact note for the visit to the branch Mr R says he made. 
Ive considered what Mr R has told us about the visit to the branch to hand his letter in, in 
that he was accompanied by a carer who provided us with their recollection of what 
happened. However, the carer told us he saw a letter being handed by Mr R to a staff 
member but wasnt able to give further details about the conversation that took place or 
contents of the letter. The carer said, it was what Mr R has said. So, while I can understand 
why Mr R wants us to consider what his carer has said, like our investigator, I cant consider 
them an impartial witness to what happened. For these reasons, I dont feel that this account 
of what happened is as persuasive as Mr R thinks it is. 
Nationwide has also mentioned that Mr R has raised a number of claims under the Direct 
Debit Guarantee, and all of these were raised over the phone or by email. They didnt have 
any records of Mr R making any historic requests by letter.
Having considered everything, I would have expected to see Nationwide have some form of 
a record of the request to cancel the direct debit in July 2019 if it had received the letter. 
Im also mindful of the call between Mr R and Nationwide in September 2019, where Mr R 
said he was expecting to go on the holiday shortly. This is inconsistent with his recollection 
that he took steps to cancel both the holiday and direct debit in July 2019. Ive listened to the 
conversation and Im satisfied Nationwide has summarised the content of the call to both Mr 
R and this service correctly. 
Mr R told our investigator a number of times that he had exchanged messages via social 
media with the travel agent. But he hasnt provided copies of these messages saying he 
cant retrieve them as his computer hard drive isnt working. However, Nationwide has provided records of Mr Rs online banking, showing frequent logins, so it seems he does 
have access to the internet. It follows, I think Mr R could have taken steps to provide copies 
of these messages to the investigator when she asked but chose not to do so. 
Mr R hasnt been able to provide any documentation to show the holiday was cancelled, and 
his account of what happened has changed over time. On balance, Im not persuaded 
Nationwide acted incorrectly in allowing these payments to be taken from Mr Rs account. 
And Im satisfied it has explained the steps Mr R should take to try and receive a refund from 
ATOL, if hes not already received this. 
As our investigator explained, Nationwide wouldnt have been expected to attempt a 
chargeback because the payments were made from his current account, not using a debit or 
credit card. 
While I know this will be disappointing to Mr R, I dont think Nationwide has done anything 
wrong, and it doesnt need to refund the three payments taken from Mr Rs account. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman