DRN-3585773
The complaint
Ms M complains that, in 2013, National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account. 
What happened
Ms M had had a bank account with NatWest since 2003. This was a basic, free account. In 
March 2013 the account was changed to a Select Silver account. This was a packaged bank 
account that cost £10 per month and came with a package of benefits, which included 
mobile phone insurance, European travel insurance, £100 interest fee overdraft (if approved) 
and consumer benefits such as DVD rentals and music downloads. 
Ms M says she wasnt given enough information about the account, that she was 
pressurised into taking the account despite her personal circumstances at the time, and that 
she had no use for the insurance benefits. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms M didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
NatWest says that its record show that Ms M upgraded her account online, and so there 
couldnt have been pressure and it would have been up to Ms M to decide if the account 
suited her needs. 
The adjudicator agreed that that this supported the view that the account hadnt been mis-
sold. In response Ms M said that NatWest staff had upgraded the account online out of 
her sight, whilst she visited a branch.
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires there to be evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt usually be 
fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was 
several years ago.
This did happen about nine years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt 
remember the detail of everything that happened that long ago. So, in such a 
circumstance, it may not be fair to rely only on what someone now remembers. Fairly, I 
would need other supporting evidence to show that NatWest acted in this way; and I dont 
have that.
I also dont have good evidence that NatWest told Ms M it was recommending the 
account based on a personalised assessment of her circumstances. And I think its 
unlikely that no information would have been given to Ms M, either in person or during the 
online application.
The main points of the account are fairly straightforward, and I think its likely Ms M was 
given enough information to make her own choice. It would have been up to her to decide 
if the account offered useful benefits that she thought worth the monthly fee. 
Overall, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold. 
Ms M, through her representatives, has made a wide range of specific complaint points, 
most of which I have dealt with more generally above. She did also say that she had not 
been given notice of fee increases. But NatWest had provided a schedule of when it sent 
out notifications about the account. And, more importantly, the ledger shows that there 
were no fee increases after the account started in 2013. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman