DRN-4502856
The complaint
Mr H complains about the consequences arising from the delay caused by London & 
Colonial Services Limited (trading as L&C Pensions) in purchasing and investing two 
separate investment trusts into his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in April 2020. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H met with an overseas financial adviser and agreed to transfer their 
defined benefit pension schemes into new international SIPP plans with L&C Pensions. I 
understand most of the funds were held within international investment bonds, managed by 
a third party, which allowed for the opportunity to hold a full range of available funds in the 
market within it. But it also carried a 1% early redemption penalty per year for 10 years. 
Subsequently Mr and Mrs H moved 80% of their funds into a new SIPP with another UK 
provider, where it remains. But, because of the possible invocation of the 10% early 
redemption penalty, the remaining 20% remains invested in the SIPP. From this point Ill 
refer to Mr H solely - as this is his complaint, but Mrs H has a similar complaint which we are 
also considering.
On 2 April 2020 Mrs H wrote to L&C Pensions  on behalf of her and Mr H, in respect of the 
ongoing charges which were applied to their plans. In the same letter she asked for their 
SIPP funds to be invested, in an equal split of 40%, into two separate investment trusts with 
the residual amount left in cash. On the same day L&C Pensions confirmed receipt of the 
instruction and said it had instructed the asset provider to carry out the request. 
Separately on 3 April 2020 they complained to the overseas jurisdiction responsible for the 
firm that gave the original transfer advice. They said the advice wasnt suitable and they 
hadnt been made aware of the early redemption penalty or the rest of the ongoing fees 
theyd been charged. 
But the purchase of the investment trusts wasnt completed until 29 April and 6 May 2020 
respectively  and even then, the correct percentages werent acquired. So Mr H complained 
to L&C Pensions about the delay and said he wanted to be put back into the position he 
would have been in without the delay. 
In May 2020 L&C Pensions accepted that a delay had occurred and said the asset manager 
would carry out a loss assessment calculation. Mr H accepted this position although he 
noted the further delay in completing the calculation. 
He said he would like an explanation for how the error occurred and would then like to 
transfer the funds to another SIPP provider without any penalty.
In June 2020 L&C Pensions said it was still awaiting confirmation that the asset provider had 
completed the calculation but said it wasnt responsible for any delay as it had sent the 
instruction within its usual service levels and had requested the correct percentage of each 
asset to be purchased. 
   
In January 2021 Mr H sent a letter to the asset manager explaining that the matter still hadnt 
been resolved from the previous year. But he didnt receive a response or any further 
contact from L&C Pensions. After an automated response from L&C Pensions following a 
subsequent chase in November 2021 Mr H brought his complaint to us. He explained that:
L&C Pensions had failed to execute his request to invest 80% of his SIPP funds in a 
timely manner following the request of April 2020. It had also failed to purchase the 
full 80% of the two trusts.
It had failed to honour its promise to put him back into the position that he ought now 
to be in  and had failed to correspond with him at all since June 2020.
He hadnt received any annual statements relating to the SIPP and so hadnt been 
able to confirm the fees hed been charged or a breakdown of the value of the 
investments within the plan. 
He had been told to complain about the firm that advised on the transfer to a SIPP 
and about the charges levied, to the Swiss regulator - and had done so - but hadnt 
heard anything further.
Subsequently in November 2018 around 80% of the SIPP was transferred to another 
provider and he is satisfied with that arrangement. But the remaining 20% remains 
trapped because he is disputing the 10% exit fee to transfer  which is why he 
decided to invest that money into the two investment trusts until the matter was 
resolved. 
He wants L&C Pensions to increase his SIPP by any loss suffered as a result of the 
delay and incorrect purchase. He also would like us to tell L&C Pensions to allow him 
to transfer the remaining funds  once corrected in value  to his new SIPP without 
an exit penalty. He would like the fees hes been charged to manage his SIPP to be 
refunded as well. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said that:
Hed considered the matter of whether Mr H had been financially disadvantaged by 
not being able to move his funds while he was waiting for compensation to be 
arranged  but thought Mr H would have been able to do that at any time. So he 
didnt expect L&C Pensions to refund fees or compensate for any loss of investment 
opportunity. 
He thought L&C Pensions should pay Mr H £400 for the impact its actions had on 
him. 
But we didnt have any enforcement powers to punish L&C Pensions for their actions 
and to ensure others wouldnt be affected. That was the role of the regulator.
L&C Pensions should pay redress arising from a calculation which compared the 
current value of Mr Hs bond with its notional value had the investment instruction 
been processed with an investment date of 7 April 2020.
Mr H didnt dispute the outcome but believed the redress should be worked out differently. 
He said that, had the instructions been carried out correctly, he could have worked towards 
an exit strategy which allowed for potentially greater investment returns to cover the exit 
penalty that was imposed on the plan.
He said that he could have traded the investments at their peak value  they have now both 
fallen appreciably  so that both he and Mrs Hs plans would now be worth around £290,000 
more. He said this would have covered the exit penalty and allowed them to transfer the 
bonds away from L&C Pensions.
He thought that L&C Pensions should restore his residual cash to what it would have been at 
the time of the purchases  before subsequent fees were taken and eroded the cash 
balance - and then allow a penalty free in specie transfer to a new SIPP provider. L&C Pensions didnt respond, and the complaint was referred to an ombudsman  so it was 
passed to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2022. Heres what I said:
The delay in purchasing the investment trusts
When we first approached L&C Pensions about this matter it told us that it thought the
matter had been settled and that compensation had been paid  which I assume to be the
reason it might give for its subsequent non-engagement. But I dont think the matter has
been settled, because theres no evidence to show who was responsible for the delay and
no explanation to accompany the entry of compensation on the transaction sheets. I can
understand Mr Hs concerns therefore that he doesnt know if the compensation is fair or
whether the calculation has been carried out using the correct dates. Ill set out below what I
think L&C Pensions needs to do to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the letter Mrs H sent to L&C Pensions on 2 April 2020 complaining about
the ongoing SIPP fees, and which also contained our instruction forthwith to invest 40% of
each of the net SIPP funds in the xxx Investment Trust and 40% in the xxxx Investment
Trust. The remainder will remain in cash in these SIPPs until we have determined next steps
in the complaints process. Ive also seen that the sales werent carried out until 29 April and
6 May 2020 respectively  but not for the full 40% of each investment trust. I think thats too
long and didnt represent the detail of the actual request.
Ive also been presented with the subsequent email trail between Mr H and L&C Pensions
setting out his request to be put back into the position he should have been had the
instruction been carried out correctly.
No final response was provided to his complaint although I have seen a copy of a later
transaction sheet for Mrs H which showed entries for purchases of two investment trusts on
20 April 2020 followed by further purchases on 10 June 2020. These were then redeemed
and purchased through the cash account on 18 June 2020 with an entry entitled complaint
compensation. There is also a separate policy valuation page within the information which
sets out the value of the cash and the investment trusts. Although I havent been provided
with a similar sheet for Mr H I assume it would reflect the same situation for the sums
purchased in his name. L& C Pensions might wish to confirm that in its redress calculations.
However, those purchase dates are 18 June 2020, and the purchase price dates are
19 October 2022 - so its unclear whether any compensation for Mrs H had been calculated
from the 29 April 2020 dates (or earlier as set out by the investigator) as they should have
been. Again I assume the same situation for Mr H.
Im satisfied that some element of compensation has been applied to the SIPP, but in the
absence of any qualifying information I cant be sure what dates were used and how many
additional units should have been purchased. 
And although L&C Pensions has said that it sent Mr Hs instruction to the asset manager for 
action, it hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate that it did that or given any reasons 
for the delays that took place. As the SIPP provider and administrator here, I think L&C 
Pensions was responsible for the purchases being competed in a timely manner. If it 
believes the asset manager to be responsible it should claim back any redress payable from 
it.
Our investigator believed that the investment should have been carried out by 7 April 2020 namely four working days. I would normally use the number of working days that were taken
when the instruction was actually worked upon until the purchase was made as a guide to
what should have happened  but that information isnt available here. So Ive decided that
the purchases should have been made within one calendar week of the instruction at the 
latest. I note that L&C Pensions says it had to carry out due diligence of the assets as it
wasnt sure they could be held within the bond  so I think the time period Ive set out should
allow for that extra research to be completed.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if the correct percentage of investment had been purchased without the delays
that occurred.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances
and objectives when he invested.
What must L&C Pensions do?
So, if any final decision remains along these lines, to compensate Mr H fairly, L&C Pensions
must:
Compare the current value of the bonds with the notional value of the bonds had the correct
percentage been purchased by 9 April following the instruction of 2 April 2020.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is
payable.
L&C Pensions should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, L&C Pensions should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If L&C Pensions is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid. The notional allowance
should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected
retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would have been able
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation,
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either L&C Pensions or Mr H dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr H receives
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once any
final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If L&C Pensions deducts income tax from
the interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. L&C Pensions should give
Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim thetax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Any additional sum that Mr H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if
L&C Pensions totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The request for a refund of fees and a penalty free exit from the investment bond
In Mrs Hs letter of 2 April 2020 she and Mr H spoke about the 1% yearly fee on the original
face value of our SIPPs which you continue to levy. They also referenced the early
redemption penalty which Ill turn to later. And looking at Mrs Hs transaction statement I can
see quarterly fixed and management charges amounting to over £4,000, which Im sure
would have caused Mr H some concern  assuming his were at the same level - especially
as they were also being deducted during the process of answering his complaint which he 
says hasnt been finalised.
However as theres no regulatory guidance on excessive fees Ive taken a fair and
reasonable view of what might be considered an appropriate level of fees, taking into
account what might generally be seen in the industry.
I have considered this matter carefully, but I dont think L&C Pensions should have to refund
its fees in this case.
I say that for two reasons. Firstly L&C Pensions is entitled to set its fees, within reason, at
what it considers to be an appropriate level for the work it does in administering a SIPP.
Then it was for the adviser who recommended the bonds in 2017 to make his
recommendation based on a number of factors  one of which was fees and the effect of
them on an investment. So I dont think its fair to say the fees were excessive. But I would
have expected Mr H to have been made aware of the level of fees that would be applied.
I note that in his 2017 suitability report the adviser set out the operational costs. Its not
entirely clear what these were but they were noted to be a year 1 set up fee of £180 plus an
annual fee of £350 with an annual bond charge of 0.90% of the initial transfer.
But of more relevance to Mr Hs complaint is the illustration that was provided to Mrs H by
the adviser dated 25 April 2017 regarding the bond. This noted quarterly management
charges of 0.225% with a quarterly fixed fee of £100. Ive applied these charges to the fees
that were taken from the bond, and I think theyre broadly in line. So I think Mr H was made
aware of the fees, which is what I would have expected to see.
As Ive said previously, although Mr H might regard the fees as excessive I cant
reasonably say that they are and as Mr H was made aware of them before he took out the
bond theres nothing to support the claim that L&C Pensions should have to refund them on
that basis.
The non-negotiable early redemption penalty that Mr and Mrs H spoke about was noted in
the illustration which said, if the policy is surrendered in the first 10 years, surrender
penalties will be applicable. This was further explained in the application form which set outan early encashment charge as 10% of the total premium amount reducing by 1% p.a for
10 years. There are no early encashment charges after 10 years.
So Mr H was made aware of the charge at inception and while I can understand his
frustration that it cant now be waived  even in light of L&C Pensions actions in not
answering his complaint about the delayed and incorrect purchases  it wouldnt be fair for
me to tell it to waive the charge and I dont think L&C Pensions have done anything wrong in
continuing its implementation.
The possible investment loss caused by not being able to trade the investments
In his response to our initial assessment Mr H explained to us why he thought our redress
recommendation didnt take into account the full effect of L&C Pensions actions on his
retirement planning and exit strategy for paying the early retirement charge on his bond
and transferring to another provider, to rid himself of the ongoing difficult situation. He said
that his strategy  when purchasing the funds in April 2020, was to invest to earn some
investment growth and then sell the funds as close to their peak value as possible. He said
this would then have been returned to the cash fund to cover the exit fees.
He said L&C Pensions actions have impacted him in two ways. Firstly, the delay in resolving
the issue over the incorrect purchases meant that the investment trusts passed their peak
prices some time ago and have since fallen in value, so he says hes lost the opportunity to
obtain the investment growth and cover the exit fees. He also says that the quarterly SIPP
fees have continued to be applied which means the cash fund is now significantly depleted.
Mr H has been consistent in setting out this strategy to us and I have no reason to dispute
his intentions, so Ive thought very carefully about this matter. But I dont think it would be fair
for me to award him compensation for this loss of investment opportunity for the following
reasons.
Firstly Mr H says he intended to sell the assets at the peak of the price and Ive seen from
their submissions that Mr and Mrs H are quite experienced, knowledgeable investors with
regards to their own investments. But to disinvest at the very highest price of an asset isnt
an easy thing to do. It wouldnt be clear when the market had in fact peaked until some falls
had been experienced soon after  so I dont think Mr H would have been able to sell at the
levels he would have hoped, and that would make it almost impossible to make a judgement
about when he would have sold the assets and how much investment return might have
been made. So I think its impossible to quantify Mr Hs request for compensation.
But even if I am wrong in my assumption of what might have been achievable, I note the
purchase of the investment trusts was made in April and June 2020 even though the
percentage allocations werent correct. So, if Mr H wanted to follow his exit strategy, I
would have expected him to mitigate his position to demonstrate the intention of that strategy
which I think ought to have led to him selling the purchases that were made in April and
June 2020.
But I havent seen anything to support the idea that he tried or discussed doing that during
the complaint process. I also note he said the funds peaked in November 2021 and
January 2023 respectively so it would have been possible to make some of the returns he
spoke about if hed gone ahead with selling the shares that he did hold at that time. Had
Mr H mitigated his position I may have been persuaded about his ultimate intention, but as
he didnt its difficult for me to support his claim for lost investment opportunity based on
what did happen.Compensation
Although I dont think theres enough evidence to support the idea of a refund of fees or to
tell L&C Pensions to compensate Mr H for the investment growth he lost out on from being
unable to trade his funds in the way he wished to, I dont take lightly the impact this matter
has had on him. Over a period of three years L&C Pensions has failed to give him a
satisfactory answer to his complaint about its error as well as failing to respond to him
regarding his other complaint points. I think this matter has disrupted Mr Hs retirement
planning and would have given him real concern about whether he had lost funds (or growth)
from his SIPP permanently.
I think some of Mr Hs issues here do stem from the initial transfer advice he was given in
2017  which isnt L&C Pensions responsibility. But even so I think L&C Pensions actions 
as Ive set out above, would have had a significant impact on Mr H and caused him a great
deal of trouble and upset over an extended period of time. So I think L&C Pensions should
pay compensation of £750.
Responses to the provisional decision
L&C Pensions didnt respond, but Mr H made a number of additional points in respect of the 
redress Id set out and the other complaint points. 
He made a number of comments and corrections to the information contained 
within the provisional decision
He said that when he complained about the delay in executing his instructions L&C 
Pensions made it clear that if he suffered any detriment because of market 
movements as a result, the provider would compensate his SIPP accordingly.
The lack of (timely) provision of annual plan statements from L&C Pensions was an 
ongoing problem which made it difficult to review and manage his pension 
accurately. He also understands that most major providers also offer full online 
access  which isnt something L&C Pensions has ever offered.
It would have been difficult for him to have moved the funds while the investigation 
was ongoing because of the lack of answers and basic services like statements. 
And also the lack of clarity around the compensation that was paid, the fees 
applicable to the plan, and the available transfer balance.
He cited a number of reasons why L&C Pensions were, in his view, unfit to continue 
as a regulated provider of financial services. 
If L&C Pensions had contacted him when the compensation payment was made to 
the account he would have requested full details of the calculation which would have 
highlighted that the purchase of further shares was required as set out in his original 
purchase instruction. This would have set him on the road to being put back into the 
position he ought then to be in. 
While he welcomed the redress methodology Id set out, he had some further 
considerations for me. 
He thought it was unfair that, after avoiding any discussion about the matter for three 
and a half years, L&C Pensions should be allowed to settle for a compensation figure 
that was some £30,000 lower than he thought it ought to have been on 
18 June 2020. He thought that the compensation figure L&C Pensions may have 
already paid into his account should be ignored and not taken into account when 
calculating the actual loss hed suffered here. And he also thought that to include the 
compensation as an offset in the calculation would further reduce his compensation 
by around £11,000 because of subsequent share price movements. 
I hadnt set out the interest rate that should be applied to any compensation from 9 April 2020 to the date it eventually is paid. His proposal was to use a bank base 
rate of 5.25% applied daily to the full amount payable.
He presumed that, as the compensation L&C Pensions said it already paid was 
paid into his pension plan, there would be no need to make this payment directly to 
him after the deduction of tax. He thought any compensation due now should be able 
to be paid into the plan as it was before. He also suggested that both he and Mrs H 
would be non-taxpayers initially in retirement, so he didnt think my assumption that 
they would be basic rate tax payers would automatically follow.
He wanted to set out the position with regards to the fees which applied to the plan. 
He explained that the ongoing charge was set at 1% of the original aggregate 
balances for 10 years after inception. But hed calculated the charges equated to 
1.1% of the aggregate initial investments and 5.8% of the remaining funds  after the 
2019 transfer  according to the latest valuations. He didnt think this was fair and 
wanted me to reconsider my provisional conclusions. 
He set out the background to the advice process from 2017. His conclusion based on 
that sequence of events was that he disagreed with my assessment that the charge 
was explained to him  and was fair. He said that if both he and Mrs H paid the 1% 
fee over the full 10 years they would pay over £236,000 plus ancillary charges. And 
even though they transferred 80% of the funds in 2019 they have paid £82,000 in the 
ensuing three and a half years. He also though that L&C Pensions had mismanaged 
the administration of his plan, and this didnt justify such fees in any case. 
He hasnt been provided with a breakdown of the fees and commissions that were 
paid to his adviser  despite repeated requests. He explained that he had recently 
received correspondence setting out the fees payable on redemption  which didnt 
include an early redemption charge. But the correspondence also said that these 
fees do not include any fees that may be payable to your Financial Advisor or 
Investment Provider.  He said that, having not engaged an adviser since 2018, he 
assumed that no fees will be payable in that respect, but reserved the right to 
complain further under the consumer duty regulations if any are applied. He said that 
he is now going to request the transfer of his remaining funds  in cash - to his other 
SIPP provider. He wanted me to confirm this transfer wouldnt affect the payment of 
any compensation due. 
He didnt agree with my findings regarding the lost investment opportunity. He said 
that it would have been quite straightforward to sell the investment trusts  the 
purpose of which in the first place was to build up enough growth to cover the early 
encashment or exit charge. He thought he could have sold the trusts when the value 
met the level of the charge and therefore he wouldnt have needed to second guess 
the markets or try to sell at the peak value. He believed that as L&C Pensions didnt 
engage with him about the dispute and therefore he was unaware of the true position 
of the value of the trusts, it wasnt possible to try to sell the investments as that would 
have been shooting in the dark. So he thought the level of compensation due from 
that part of his claim ought to be the value of the early exit charge as set out in the 
quotation of December 2019  namely £180,105 plus interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Hs further submissions and responses to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from my findings. I know this outcome will disappoint 
Mr H who thinks that the redress methodology Ive set out doesnt fully reflect the investment 
loss hes suffered, and that I havent made allowances for the growth he expected to 
crystallise from the investment trusts after he purchased them in April 2020  in an attempt to offset the early exit penalty he would be charged to move the remainder of his funds to his 
other SIPP provider.
So Ill set out my reasons for reaching the same outcome, and answer Mr Hs further points 
below.  
The delay in purchasing the investment trusts
Theres no dispute that Mr Hs request of 2 April 2020 to invest 40% of each of the net SIPP 
funds in the xxx Investment Trust and 40% in the xxxx Investment Trust wasnt carried out 
when it should have been and when it was it didnt represent the amounts that had been 
requested. 
And Mr H is right to say that L&C Pensions made it clear to him that if he suffered any 
financial loss because of adverse market movements resulting from the delay he would be 
compensated for that loss accordingly. L&C Pensions then told us that it thought the matter 
had been resolved and that compensation  which was calculated in June 2020  was 
subsequently added to the plan. 
I have seen evidence to show that some element of compensation - noted as complaint 
compensation was paid to Mr Hs SIPP, but the details of that compensation werent 
disclosed. Therefore its not possible to determine if it does represent the loss that Mr H 
suffered. In order to do that I would have expected L&C Pensions to provide a breakdown of 
any calculation that was carried out in order to show that any redress was based on the date 
the investment instruction should have been completed and that the amount of shares 
purchased was also correct. I would also have expected to see how L&C Pensions 
compensated Mr H for any subsequent investment loss suffered. 
Of course, L&C Pensions argued that the delay was caused by the asset manager as it said 
it passed Mr Hs instructions to the manager without delay. But L&C Pensions hasnt 
provided any evidence to substantiate that claim so I think, in the absence of such evidence, 
it was responsible for the instruction being completed in a timely manner as it was Mr Hs 
SIPP provider. I said in my provisional decision that L&C Pensions ought to reclaim any 
redress payable from the asset manager if it believes thats where the fault lies.
So I think L&C Pensions needs to carry out a loss assessment as set below to compensate 
Mr H for the error. I think the investment trusts ought to have been purchased within one 
calendar week of Mr Hs written instruction as I think this allows for the due diligence L&C 
Pensions says it needed to carry out on the assets and whether they could be held within the 
SIPP. 
But Mr H also had some concerns about the methodology I set out in my provisional 
decision. He said that if L&C Pensions had provided him with a breakdown of the redress 
calculation in 2020 he could have highlighted any errors and ensured that the purchase of 
further shares was carried out so that he didnt suffer further investment loss. 
He thought that my redress formula allowed L&C Pensions to settle on a compensation 
figure some £30,00 less than it should have been. Furthermore, he thought that if the 
compensation L&C Pensions had already paid was included in the calculation and offset 
against what I asked it to do - then he would be a further £11,000 worse off. 
He also questioned why I hadnt added interest to any investment loss  which he thought 
should be at the rate of 5.75%. Ive thought carefully about the points Mr H has raised here but I think theyve been dealt 
with by my redress methodology. I say that because Im going to ask L&C Pensions to set 
out the position Mr H ought to have been in, had the investments been purchased on 
9 April 2020 compared to the actual position he is now in. This means that any subsequent 
share movements are included in the calculation and theres no requirement for interest to 
be added because the calculation is brought up to the date of my decision. In addition, any 
compensation Mr H has already received is now part of his SIPP value, so to offset that 
amount would mean that he would benefit beyond the loss hes suffered. So I think its fair to 
include the compensation already paid, in the calculation. 
So Im satisfied that what Im going to set out puts Mr H back as close to the position hed 
now be in had the investments been purchased correctly  and in a timely manner. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the correct percentage of investment had been purchased without the delays 
that occurred. 
What must L&C Pensions do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, L&C Pensions must:
Compare the current value of the investment trusts with their notional value had the correct 
percentage been purchased by 9 April following the instruction of 2 April 2020. If Mr H has 
subsequently completed the transfer of his assets as hes told us he intends to do before the 
calculation is undertaken, then the date of any transfer should be used instead of the current 
value. 
If the notional value is greater than the current value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
L&C Pensions should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
L&C Pensions should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If L&C Pensions is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If L&C Pensions deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. L&C Pensions should give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr H said that any redress should be paid into his plan as L&C Pensions had managed to do 
that previously with the compensation it paid. He said there was therefore no need to make 
the payment directly to him, after deducting tax, and that his plan should remain 
uncrystallised. Ive set out above that this should be the first course of action L&C Pensions 
should undertake, but I have also set out an alternative should payment into the plan no 
longer be possible. But if thats the case L&C Pensions need to provide evidence to show 
precisely why that situation may have changed. 
Additional interest
8% simple per year from final decision to settlement (if not settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the complainant's acceptance). If Mr H has transferred the assets before 
this calculation is completed then L&C Pensions should run its comparison to that date and 
then add interest at the same rate to the loss from that date until the date of the calculation. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if L&C 
Pensions totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The question of the plans fees and the early exit penalty for transferring within the first 10 
years.
Mr H wanted me to reconsider my position regarding the fess that were deducted from his 
plan. He says they arent fair and would amount to £236,000 for him and Mrs H over the full 
10 year term of the investment and they have already paid £82,000 in the three and a half 
years since 80% of the fund was transferred to another provider. He thought the fees were 
excessive and also that L&C Pensions administration of his plan was poor and didnt justify 
such a level fees. In addition, he said that my assertion that the fees were explained to him 
was wrong and that the sale of the plan was done in such a way that he wasnt made aware 
of them or their full effect.
But as I explained in my provisional decision the sale of the plan initially was carried out by 
an overseas adviser who isnt under our jurisdiction. It was his responsibility to explain the 
features of the plan he advised including all the applicable fees. So any complaint about the 
suitability of the sale and whether Mr H had been made aware of how it worked  including 
its fees - was the advisers responsibility. I know Mr H has already complained to the 
overseas regulator  without success so far  but Im simply not allowed to consider any 
complaint against the adviser here. 
However, the adviser did provide a suitability report and an illustration which set out the fees 
involved. Ive seen a copy of these documents and as set out in my provisional decision Im 
satisfied that the fees were broadly in line with what has been deducted from the fund. So I 
think Mr H was made aware of the charges even though he believes them to be excessive. 
L&C Pensions is entitled to charge whatever fees it thinks are appropriate for the work 
involved in managing the plan and for any early encashment charges it thinks are relevant. I 
think it needed to have made Mr H aware of the charges  which I think has been the case 
here through the documents Ive mentioned.  But there simply arent sufficient grounds for me to support the idea that the fees are 
excessive or unjustified. I havent been provided with any evidence to show that L&C 
Pensions hasnt fulfilled its administrative duties since 2017, although Ive taken into account 
the error that forms the basis of Mr Hs complaint and his further point about the lack of 
statements and delay in providing a breakdown of the fees paid to his adviser. But I have 
considered those (in) actions and Ive taken its failure to provide that information and to 
satisfactorily answer his complaint into account through the amount of compensation Ive 
awarded for the impact these matters had on him. 
With regards to the early redemption penalty that applied during the first 10 years, Ive seen 
that the illustration explained that if the policy is surrendered in the first 10 years, surrender 
penalties will be applicable. While the application form confirmed that the penalty would be 
10% of the total premium amount reducing by 1% p.a for 10 years. So again, while I know 
Mr H regards this as excessive, theres nothing to support that claim and I think he was 
made aware of the level of charges involved. It wouldnt therefore be fair for me to tell L&C 
Pensions to waive that fee. 
Mr H has now told us that hes received an up to date redemption statement from L&C 
Pensions which doesnt include an early redemption charge but does also refer to fees which 
may be payable to his adviser, although he says he hasnt engaged an adviser since 2018. 
He says hes begun the process of transferring his plan to the other provider and does not 
expect any of those fees to be included. Ive confirmed to Mr H in the section above that any 
compensation due to him wont be affected by any subsequent transfer and Ive set out how 
L&C Pensions should deal with this. But it wouldnt be fair for me to tell L&C Pensions to 
waive any fees that it hasnt charged, although this doesnt exclude Mr Hs right to make a 
further complaint if he believes the transfer isnt carried out on the terms that he thinks have 
been confirmed. 
The loss of investment opportunity and possible growth to cover the exit fee
Mr H didnt agree with my findings regarding the lost investment opportunity. He explained 
that his strategy regarding the investment trusts was quite simply to purchase these 
investments and, at the time when their growth had covered the outstanding exit charge, he 
could transfer his assets to the other provider having offset the early redemption penalty. So 
he didnt think he needed to second guess the markets and try to sell at peak value. 
He also refuted my claim that he could have mitigated his loss by selling the investment 
trusts that had been purchased  even if the amounts werent completely correct. He said 
the lack of answers from L&C Pensions about the correction of its error and the lack of 
statements setting out his position (L&C Pensions doesnt offer an online facility) meant he 
would have been shooting in the dark if he had tried to mitigate his position. Mr H wanted 
redress of around £180,000  to cover the early redemption charge  as compensation for 
this part of his complaint.
I have some sympathy for Mr Hs position here. I do understand the strategy that hes set out 
of using the trusts growth to cover the exit charge in place at that time. And Im persuaded 
that he wouldnt have needed to play the markets when selling  which its agreed would 
have been difficult to do  as long as the growth on the trust covered the charge at some 
point. But to uphold this part of the complaint would mean making my decision on the basis 
of hindsight which I dont think is fair or reasonable for me to do. As I said in my provisional 
decision I would expect some degree of mitigation here to demonstrate Mr Hs intended 
strategy. Although the purchase of the investments was both delayed and incorrect (in terms of 
number of units) Mr H did acquire a portion of the investments he wanted. I think he could 
have made some of the returns he required if hed gone ahead with the sale of the shares 
that he did hold  especially as he said they peaked in value in November 2021 and 
January 2023 respectively. I know Mr H says he couldnt pursue the strategy while the 
dispute was ongoing, and he didnt have sight of plan statements to show him the position of 
the plan. But I think he could have demonstrated his investment strategy if hed shown 
intention of that strategy  namely selling to cover some of the exit charge - with the shares 
that he did hold.
And, although he says, quite correctly, that L&C Pensions didnt fully engage with him during 
the complaint process and there was no communication after June 2020, I havent seen any 
evidence that he referred to his strategy or even complained that L&C Pensions was 
preventing him from achieving his goal during the correspondence they did have. Indeed, in 
Mrs Hs email from 1 June 2020 they set out their expectations from the complaint 
resolution, which was to receive a cash refund for the difference in value from the shares 
which they then wanted to transfer into the other SIPPs  without charge. They also wanted 
L&C Pensions to waive the exit charge on the residual funds. So I cant reasonably say 
theres sufficient evidence to support the idea that Mr H suffered an investment loss  
equivalent to the value of the exit charge  based on what Ive seen.
I havent seen enough evidence that Mr H adopted his investment strategy with even the 
portion of shares that he could have used to cover some of the exit charge or that he made 
L&C Pensions aware of a strategy that it was preventing him from adopting. Its difficult for 
me to conclude that Mr H would have followed the particular plan hes told us about if theres 
no contemporaneous evidence to support his intention to do so. So I cant safely conclude 
that L&C Pensions was responsible for that investment loss and that it should compensate 
Mr H accordingly. 
Putting things right
Ive set out above what L&C Pensions needs to do to compensate Mr H for the delayed and 
incorrect share purchases. But I dont think it needs to do anything more regarding the lost 
investment opportunity or the fees that it applied to the plan. But, I have also considered the 
impact that L&C Pensions actions have had on Mr H over a period of three years. L&C 
Pensions failed to give him a satisfactory answer to his complaint about its error as well as 
failing to respond to him regarding his other complaint points. 
It also hasnt provided the information he requested - including the plan statements that he 
wanted in order to understand the position and value of the funds. Ive thought carefully 
about how this impacted Mr Hs retirement planning and the concern he would have had 
about the loss of funds and growth from his SIPP.
So I think L&C Pensions should pay Mr H £750 for the significant distress and inconvenience 
caused by these matters.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Hs complaint against London & Colonial 
Services Limited trading as L&C Pensions. My decision is that London & Colonial Services 
Limited trading as L&C Pensions should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
London & Colonial Services Limited trading as L&C Pensions should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2024.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman