DRN-3168689
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave to 
him regarding his overdraft usage which he says affected his financial position to his 
detriment.  
What happened
Mr M complained to NatWest about the advice and service he received and charges applied 
to his bank account. NatWest said the actions it took were in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account but offered Mr M £50 compensation for the service he received. 
Mr M was dis-satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that NatWest should have stopped 
charging overdraft fees from 13 January 2014 as by this point it was clear Mr M was in 
financial difficulty as he hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of 
time. 
NatWest disagreed with our adjudicators view but agreed to refund all interest, fees and 
charges applied to the account from 1 September 2017 as it says Mr M was earning a large 
salary and it says his account was regularly moved into credit.
Mr M didnt wish to accept this offer and has asked for an ombudsman decision.
Why I cant look at charges applied before August 2013
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr M raised his complaint in August 2019. Six years before he raised his complaint is August 
2013. And as the charges for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Mr M at the time 
they were being applied, I think he ought to have known enough to decide whether they 
were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Mr M 
ought to be reasonably aware he had reason to complaint provides him with a longer period 
than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from August 2013.
I can still look into Mr Ms complaint outside this time if Im satisfied the failure to complain 
earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr M has told us that he had spoken to 
NatWest on a number of occasions about his accounts with it. This may well have been the 
case but Ive seen no evidence that prior to 2019 that Mr M logged a formal complaint which 
NatWest investigated about his account ending 2495. 
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am only able to look at 
his account and overdraft activity from August 2013. To be clear although Mr M may have 
other complaints under investigation this decision only deals with his complaint in relation to 
his overdraft on account number ending 2495.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that NatWest acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Ms 
overdraft from 13 January 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr M was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr M was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. NatWests own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
I accept that Mr M did manage to bring his account into credit near the end of 2015 and on a 
few further occasions after that, but he didnt maintain a credit balance and I can see that Mr 
M was using his overdraft to pay back his charge card  using one form of credit to pay back 
another  and within weeks was back into overdraft.  
So I think that Mr Ms overdraft usage should have prompted NatWest to have realised that 
Mr M wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As NatWest didnt react to Mr Ms overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that NatWest didnt 
treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what NatWest did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 13 January 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with NatWest to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ms credit file, NatWest should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 13 January 
2014. NatWest can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr M over 
their limit.OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. NatWest 
can also reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc and instruct it to put this right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman