DRN-2668058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds settlement and handling of their 
landlords insurance claim for damage to their garage caused by a falling tree
What happened
In November 2019 a tree in an adjoining sports club came down in a storm on a row of six 
garages to the rear of Mr and Mrs Ss tenanted property. Their property is one of six flats in a 
block located in front of the garages. Their policy includes a sum insured for buildings of 
£100,000 along with £5,000 for landlords contents. 
Following the storm Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their policy to Amtrust. Amtrust 
appointed a loss adjuster to validate and manage the claim and he visited the site a few 
days later. The loss adjuster reported to Amtrust that there was damage to the asbestos roof 
of the garage and that hed been unable to view the internal damage because the door 
wasnt able to be opened. He thought it likely the roof joints and internal walls were damaged 
too (Mr and Mrs Ss garage being the third one in from the left of the block of six). The loss 
adjuster reported that all six garages would need to be repaired and that the repairs would 
need to be undertaken by one contractor. He noted that each of the six leaseholders were 
insured separately with separate policies for each of the six dwellings as opposed to there 
being just one freeholders block policy. So he said the cost of repairs would be split six 
ways and Amtrusts proportion would be one sixth of the repair cost. 
The loss adjuster went on to note in the report that the policy had a sum insured for buildings 
of £100,000 but, having measured the square meterage, he thought it shouldve been 
insured for a rebuild cost of at least £245,000. The loss adjuster referred Amtrust to the 
policys average clause. 
The loss adjuster asked Mr and Mrs S how theyd arrived at the sum insured when they took 
the policy out. He also said to them that, from the measurements hed taken, it seemed like 
they were underinsured by 41%. Mr and Mrs S asked the loss adjuster how hed arrived at 
the £245,000 rebuild cost. The loss adjuster replied to say that the rebuild cost was 
calculated using RICS rates and he asked Mr and Mrs S to get repair estimates for the 
garages which would then be divided by six. 
Mr and Mrs S replied to say that their garage had sustained the most damage. They also 
said to the loss adjuster that he hadnt gone around the back to inspect the damage. Mr and 
Mrs S sent Amtrust a repair estimate in early February 2020 but the loss adjuster said he 
was unable to accept it would cost almost £100,000 to rebuild a single storey garage block.
The loss adjuster tried to contact Mr and Mrs S a few times over the coming months but it 
wasnt until early August 2020 that contact was made and Amtrusts settlement proposal was 
sent over to them.  
In the meantime, in July 2020, Mr and Mrs S contacted Amtrust to complain. They said that 
they had replied to the loss adjusters attempts to contact them between March and August 
2020 but theyd been ignored. They said that all the occupants of the flats had been shocked 
with the loss adjusters attitude and failure to fully inspect the damage. 
In mid-August 2020, the loss adjuster contacted Mr and Mrs S to say hed reviewed their 
repair quote and noted it included the cost for new footings and a slab. He said that the 
damage was to the roof, doors and walls and the slab was unaffected. So he excluded the 
cost cited on the repair quote for the replacement slab. He said that as they were 
underinsured the average clause was to be applied to their settlement which reduced 
proportionally what they received to £5,170.656. Mr and Mrs S complained to Amtrust about 
the settlement theyd been offered. 
Amtrust issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint at the start of October 2020. It 
said there was no evidence about the loss adjusters behaviour when he visited the site but 
for the delays in the loss adjusters responses to their enquiries it offered them 
compensation of £50 for any distress and inconvenience caused. With regard to the 
settlement theyd been offered, Amtrust said that they were underinsured and the amount 
theyd been offered had been calculated in accordance with the average clause in the policy. 
So Amtrust didnt think itd done anything wrong in that respect. 
Unhappy with Amtrusts findings, Mr and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator 
looked into their complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought that Mr and 
Mrs S hadnt deliberately misrepresented the value of their property but that they couldve 
taken greater care to provide a more accurate figure. So he thought Amtrust hadnt 
unreasonably applied the average clause to Mr and Mrs Ss claim. But he did think that 
Amtrusts loss adjuster hadnt fairly calculated the rebuild value of the property. He thought 
the evidence Mr and Mrs S had provided about the rebuild cost  that it was likely to be more 
like £125,000  was more persuasive and he thought their estimate fell within the ABI 
calculator range. 
Our investigator went on to say that Amtrust had shown that it wouldve offered Mr and 
Mrs S a policy if the rebuild sum assured was £125,000 but at a higher premium. As the 
premium they had been paying was 81% of what they shouldve been paying, our 
investigator said that Amtrust could reduce the claim settlement proportionally by the same 
amount. 
Our investigator noted that the loss adjuster had asked Mr and Mrs S to get a quote to 
rebuild all the garages and had said that it would pay their share of the rebuild cost. He said 
that the quote included replacing the footings/slab for the garages but that the loss adjuster 
had said they hadnt been damaged despite the fact hed not inspected them. Given the lack 
of inspection, our investigator wasnt persuaded that the loss adjuster had reached a fair 
decision about the matter. And he noted there was no other evidence to support the loss 
adjusters view. Our investigator said that as Mr and Mrs Ss contractor had recommended 
that the footings be replaced, and as they would need to pay their share of the bill, Amtrust 
should include the cost of doing so when calculating the claim settlement. 
Finally he thought that Amtrust should pay any VAT Mr and Mrs S had to pay their contractor 
upon production of the necessary VAT receipt. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted our investigators recommendations. Amtrust replied to say that Mr 
and Mrs Ss recalculation of the rebuild cost hadnt included an allowance for rebuilding the 
garage. It said that as the garage was part of the property it needed to be included within the 
rebuild cost as did debris removal and surveyors costs. With regard to the garage footings it 
said that these were under the garage and could not have been damaged by the tree. Our investigator responded to Amtrust to say that the ABI calculator had included an 
allowance for rebuilding a garage. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
underinsurance
Mr and Mrs Ss policy is a commercial one so it is the law as set out in the Insurance Act 
2015 that applies to their situation. From what Mr and Mrs S have said about how they set 
the sum insured  that they asked a builder when they first took out the policy and he said 
roughly £100,000 for their flat  I dont think they made a fair presentation of the risk of 
rebuilding their property that they were asking Amtrust to insure. I say this because it 
appears the sum insured they selected is less than the cost of rebuilding their property. I 
dont think Mr and Mrs S deliberately misrepresented the value of his property. But they 
couldve have taken more care to find out this information at the time. Consequently, I dont 
think Amtrust has unfairly applied the average clause in their policy to the settlement of their 
claim. And I note that Mr and Mrs S havent disputed this in response to our investigators 
findings. 
But because there is a dispute between Mr and Mrs S and Amtrust about what the correct 
rebuild value should be  which in turn impacts the average calculation  I need to decide 
whether the rebuild value Amtrust arrived at was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
rebuild value
Firstly, there is a dispute about the size of the property. Amtrusts loss adjuster calculated 
the internal floor area to measure 100 sqm to which he applied a rebuild rate of £1,700 per 
sqm and added an allowance for demolition and surveyors costs. This meant a total rebuild 
value of £245,000 was arrived at. There is no evidence of any measurements taken.
Mr and Mrs S have provided evidence of precise (internal) room measurements totalling 
72sqm. They also provided a detailed rebuild estimate from a builder to rebuild the entire 
block of six flats; this came to a total of £750,000 of which Mr and Mrs Ss share is one sixth, 
so £125,000. The quote includes measurements and an allowance for debris removal and 
project management almost equal to Amtrusts allowance for demolition and surveyors fees. 
I think that Mr and Mrs Ss evidence about the internal floor area of their flat is more 
persuasive than that provided by Amtrust. 
Ive looked at the ABI rebuild calculator provided by BCIS and it provides a rebuild cost for 
rebuilding a 72sqm flat with a garage at between £124,000 and £197,000 depending on the 
finish, fixtures and fittings etc. Given this is a rental flat it is reasonable to think it is of basic 
quality with minimal facilities that could be rebuilt at the lower end of that range, namely 
£124,000. The share of the quote (to rebuild the whole block) provided by Mr and Mrs S is 
within the ABI range, whilst the loss adjusters rebuild value is significantly higher (by about 
£50,000) than the top of the ABI range. 
I think Mr and Mrs S have provided more persuasive evidence about what an accurate 
rebuild value of their property is than Amtrusts loss adjuster. And their rebuild value falls 
within the range of the ABI rebuild calculator. I think I reasonable rebuild value for their property (including the garage) is £125,000 and that this is the figure that should have been 
included on their policy as the buildings sum insured. 
would Amtrust have offered a policy?
Amtrust has confirmed it would have still offered a policy to Mr and Mrs S had the true 
rebuild value been disclosed but that it wouldve charged them a higher premium. Amtrust 
says that a sum insured of £125k would have attracted a premium of £178.14, whereas 
Mr and Mrs S only paid £144.62 which is 81% of what they should have paid. 
It follows, for the reasons Ive given above, that as the sum insured was inadequate, Amtrust 
can reasonably reduce its liability for the claim by applying the average clause and paying 
Mr and Mrs S a proportionate settlement of 81% of their claims value. 
claim value
The loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs S to get a quote to rebuild all the garages and that Amtrust 
would pay them their share (one sixth). The quote they obtained included replacing the 
footings and slab of the garage block. The loss adjuster excluded the allowance the builder 
had included in the quote to replace the footings because he thought they would not have 
been damaged by the tree. However, I cant see that the loss adjuster has, at any point, 
inspected the footings so I dont think he can fairly say that the footings are undamaged. Ive 
seen no evidence that this is the case.
I have seen some more recent photographs provided by Mr and Mrs S which show that the 
roof and some of the garage walls have now completely collapsed on to the slab floor. Given 
this has happened and given the builder that provided the quote assessed that the 
footings/slab needed replacing, I think Amtrust should fairly include Mr and Mrs Ss share of 
the allowance to replace the footings within the claim settlement. To exclude the footings 
allowance would mean Mr and Mrs S hadnt been fully indemnified for their loss. 
VAT
Mr and Mrs S have asked that VAT should be included within the settlement they receive 
because the builder is VAT registered. Not all contractors consumers use to get work done 
will be registered to charge VAT. Sometimes consumers get the work done for a lower cost 
than the cash settlement figure. And often at the time the claim is being settled, its not 
known what the consumer intends to do with the money  or how much VAT that might 
generate. 
Because of that we generally think its fair for the insurer not to include VAT in the 
settlement. But we do expect the insurer to pay the VAT added on to any insured work once 
the consumer has shown theyve paid it. So providing, once the work is done and Mr and 
Mrs S are able to show Amtrust that they paid VAT to their contractor, then Amtrust should 
reimburse them.
claim handling
I can see that for the delays in the loss adjusters responses to Mr and Mrs Ss enquiries 
Amtrust offered them compensation of £50 for any distress and inconvenience caused. Its 
not clear to me from the file whether this has been accepted or paid. But, having reviewed 
the evidence myself, I think the amount offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint and is line with awards made by this service in similar complaints. I cant 
fairly award any more. Putting things right
For the reasons I gave above, Amtrust should recalculate and pay Mr and Mrs S a 
proportionate settlement of 81% of their claim value. Amtrusts recalculation of Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim settlement should include the reinstatement of the allowance the builder 
included for replacing the footings and slab of the garage. Finally, providing Mr and Mrs S 
are able to show Amtrust that they paid VAT to their contractor, then Amtrust should 
reimburse them for any VAT they outlaid.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to take the 
steps I set out in the putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman