DRN-2383439
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mrs R says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In October 2001 Mrs R took out a store card with PPI. The policy was arranged over the 
phone and it protected her monthly repayments on a store card that shed taken out a couple 
of years earlier. 
Among other things, Mrs R told us that she had a health problem when she took out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Rs complaint upheld it. She didnt think Mrs R wouldve 
taken out the insurance if AXA had made her aware that the policy probably wouldnt have 
covered accident and sickness claims for the health problem Mrs R had when she bought it.
AXA has responded to our adjudicators view to say it considers theres no evidence that 
Mrs Rs medical condition would negate her need for the policy. 
So Mrs Rs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mrs R enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Mrs R.
And Mrs R has given us some contradictory information about her circumstances at the time. 
But shes now provided us with further details about her health at the time and I've no reason 
to doubt that she has now remembered things correctly. And it looks like AXA doesnt 
dispute what Mrs R has said about having the condition shes told us about.
 
Mrs R says that after the condition was diagnosed in 1990 she then underwent medical 
reviews every three months from her initial diagnosis until 2002. 
It looks like the policy Mrs R bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury which she knew about, or should have known about, or for which she 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
policy start date.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims arising as a result of the condition Mrs R had been diagnosed with and 
which was subject to ongoing three monthly reviews. 
I say this because I think that her condition was potentially very serious. 
And given how closely it was being monitored, I think Mrs R might reasonably have expected 
that her health condition could well have a significant impact on her day to day life and lead 
to her needing to take time off work. 
So I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mrs R. 
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to her attention, as it shouldve done. 
And, if it had, I think its likely that Mrs R wouldnt have bought the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mrs R 
has lost out because of what AXA did wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that Mrs Rs account has been closed and the PPI policy cancelled already, so:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs R would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs R owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs R 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs R 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A, B and C.If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs R that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman