DRN-2047519
 
The complaint
Ms S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont agree to her request for a refund 
under the direct debit guarantee scheme.
What happened
Ms S had been receiving dental treatment from a company Ill call F. Shes told us she made 
an initial cash payment towards this, then paid the remainder via direct debit from her 
NatWest account. Unfortunately, F stopped trading around December 2019  leaving her 
midway through her treatment. She says F wouldnt respond to her so she had to pay 
another dentist to complete the treatment. And that Fs website directed her to contact her 
bank to claim back any direct debit payments. 
When Ms S made her request to NatWest, it initially credited her the direct debit payments. 
But when it contacted the business which had collected these, they provided evidence that 
shed been given proper notice of the payments. NatWest then debited the money back out 
of her account. She complained, but it said her request wasnt covered by the direct debit 
guarantee scheme. She then referred the matter to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He agreed that the scheme didnt cover the contractual dispute she was raising 
(i.e. that the treatment was incomplete, and she had to pay another company to rectify it).
Ms S said NatWest should pursue the refund as F hadnt provided the service shed paid for 
and had ceased trading. She felt she was being penalised for her method of payment. She 
also provided more information about Fs operations, as well as a social media post from 
someone who said NatWest had refunded their direct debit payments to F. This didnt 
change our investigators view. As no agreement was reached, Im now making the final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the issues Ms S has encountered with F, which have clearly left her 
in a difficult situation. Its not within my remit to make a judgement about F; my role is to 
consider NatWests actions in the circumstances. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill give my reasons for this.
If a supplier cant or wont resolve a problem with the goods or services theyve provided, the 
customer may be entitled to a refund through their bank/lender. Their ability to do this will be 
dependent on factors including how the goods or services were paid for. 
In this case, the payments Ms S wants to claim back were made via direct debit. That means 
shes not eligible to (for example) make a chargeback or Section 75 claim. But I cant hold 
NatWest responsible for the method of payment. It only acted on the instructions it received 
after Ms S and F agreed to the direct debit.
Ms Ss direct debit payments are covered by the direct debit guarantee scheme. As the 
scheme website explains, customers are entitled to a full and immediate refund from their 
bank if an error is made in the payment of the direct debit. Additionally, the bank is 
indemnified to be repaid by the business collecting the payment. The website gives 
examples to clarify what payment errors are covered by the guarantee:
for instance, if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is 
collected. It cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the 
billing organisation.
When Ms S raised her request, NatWest initially refunded her payments  which Im satisfied 
was in line with normal industry practice. It then contacted the business which took the 
payment for F, seeking indemnity for the refund. This business said they wouldnt indemnify 
NatWest as it was a contractual dispute rather than a payment error. They provided 
evidence that Ms S had been notified of the payments. NatWest updated Ms S about this 
and explained that it would therefore reclaim the refund.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied NatWest handled Ms Ss request fairly and 
reasonably. She doesnt dispute that she agreed to set up the direct debit. The information 
from Fs agent makes it clear that she was notified about how and when the payments would 
be taken. So its not a payment issue  which is what the guarantee covers. Instead, Im 
satisfied its essentially a contractual dispute  as its about the receipt and quality of the 
service. The guarantee isnt designed to cover these types of disputes. 
I appreciate that Ms S has seen a post suggesting someone else received a refund under 
the direct debit guarantee. But what Im considering the individual circumstances of her 
complaint. And Im not persuaded that NatWest is responsible for refunding her payments, or 
that it should offer further assistance trying to recover these.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms S, who has clearly been left in a difficult 
situation. But, for the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman