DRN-3447174
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK plc (Santander) agreed to provide a Covid payment holiday 
and an interest rate product switch on his joint mortgage account, without his consent.  
What happened
Mr W says following a recent divorce from his wife, he discovered Santander had agreed a 
Covid payment holiday on his joint mortgage account with his ex-wife and it subsequently 
agreed to a mortgage interest rate product switch, without obtaining his consent to do so. Mr 
W says that Santander, despite the court having directed that his ex-wife was now 
responsible for the mortgage account and not him, still held him jointly responsible for the 
monthly mortgage payments. Even so, it failed to get his agreement before allowing his ex-
wife to enter into a new mortgage interest rate product. 
Mr W says he asked Santander to change his address details, as he no longer lived at the 
previous matrimonial address and to send him up to date mortgage statements, but it failed 
to do this. Mr W says correspondence he received from Santander during this time was 
poorly communicated and indifferent to his circumstances.
Mr W wants Santander to include him in all aspects of his joint mortgage account going 
forward and to provide an explanation why his consent wasnt needed, along with 
compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused. 
Santander says it didnt require the Mr Ws authority before agreeing to a Covid payment 
holiday on the joint mortgage account held with his ex-wife as this benefitted both parties. 
Santander says its policy also allows for a new interest rate product to be put in place on 
either parties agreement, provided the interest rate product didnt include an early repayment 
charge (ERC) or impact the capital sum outstanding. 
Santander says it has no record of an earlier telephone call from Mr W asking him to change 
his address apart from the instructions it had in October 2020. Santander during the course 
of this investigation, accepted that its letter sent in November 2020 wasnt clear about the 
instructions it needed to change the interest rate product on the joint mortgage account. 
Santander offered Mr W £100 by way of an apology to reflect this. Santander have now 
confirmed its records highlight no material changes to the joint mortgage account can take 
place, without both parties consent.
Mr W wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Santander had acted reasonably when it agreed to allow a Covid payment 
holiday with just Mr Ws ex-wifes authority, as that wasnt required of them under its policy 
or by the guidance set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The investigator says 
Santander also acted fairly when it agreed to allow Mr Ws ex-wife to enter into a new 
mortgage interest rate product, given it had not financially disadvantaged either party. The 
investigator agreed that Santanders letter to Mr W in November 2020 could have been 
worded better but felt the compensation it offered of £100 was reasonable.  
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand that Mr W has gone through a stressful time following his divorce and this 
would have been a difficult time for him. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
Santander acted fairly when it agreed to a Covid payment holiday and then put in place a 
new interest rate product on the joint mortgage account, both without Mr Ws formal 
agreement.
Mr W has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point he has made as I dont 
feel its necessary in order to come to a full an impartial decisions here. Thats not to say I 
havent considered everything hes said and sent us  I have. 
The first thing to say here is while Mr W had entered into an agreement via the courts that 
his ex-wife was responsible for any future contractual monthly mortgage payments, as 
explained by the investigator, that wouldnt alter the terms and conditions of his joint and 
several liability under the mortgage agreement he signed with his ex-wife. If Mr W doesnt 
feel his ex-wife has complied with the courts ruling then thats not for this service to 
consider, and he would need to take separate legal advice on that. 
Mr Ws complaint centres around two main points, firstly that Santander agreed a Covid 
payment holiday on the joint mortgage account, with only his ex-wifes authority and without 
notice to him, and secondly it allowed his ex-wife to enter into a new mortgage interest rate 
product, again without his agreement. 
Looking at the Covid payment holiday request agreed by Santander with Mr Ws ex-wife, its 
worth saying  this would have been put in place under the guidance given by the FCA and 
there was no requirement here, or within Santanders own policy to say both parties needed 
to authorise it. These payment holidays were meant to be simple to put in place, to support 
customers affected by the pandemic, in the same way Santander had agreed this with Mr W 
following his own request earlier in March 2020. So here, I am satisfied Santander have 
acted correctly as it could be argued that if it hadnt agreed this and Mr Ws ex-wife wasnt 
able to make the mortgage payments, any missed payments could have been registered on 
both parties credit files, which wouldnt have been in Mr Ws best interests. 
While I understand Mr W says he told Santander of his new forwarding address on 23 March 
2020, Santander have no record of any conversation with Mr W at this time. Santander says 
the first notification of any address change from Mr W wasnt until mid-October 2020, so 
without any further evidence provided by Mr W to the contrary, I cant say Santander were at 
fault sending correspondence to the existing address it held on file.  
Mr W is unhappy that Santander, having told him in an earlier letter in mid November 2020 
any product switches would require both signatures to effect any change, it then went on to 
agree a new mortgage interest rate product with his ex-wife, without his formal agreement. 
While I agree Santanders letter could have been clearer on what basis it could enter into 
such an agreement - which it also accepts and offered an apology and £100, Im not persuaded it acted unfairly when it later did so without his formal agreement. 
I say this because Santanders policy is that one party can instruct a change to the mortgage 
interest rate product, provided there is no ERC or any product fee attributable added to the 
mortgage account. So here, taking Santanders policy aside, given the existing mortgage 
rate product had come to an end and the alternative was to revert to Santanders standard 
variable mortgage rate, which was more costly, Mr W hasnt been financially disadvantaged 
here. I am satisfied this was a pragmatic decision to have taken here given the background 
surrounding this case. 
Santander have provided a screen shot to this service, to indicate a marker has been placed 
on the joint mortgage account, meaning no material changes to the joint mortgage account 
will be allowed without joint consent  hopefully this will put Mr Ws mind at rest here. 
It follows for the reasons I have already given, although Mr W will be disappointed with my 
decision, I wont be upholding this complaint. I will leave it with Mr W to contact Santander if 
he now wishes to accept its £100 compensation offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman