DRN-2629445
The complaint
Ms J complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined her claim against her travel 
insurance policy following cancellation of her trip. Reference to URV includes reference to its 
agents.
What happened
In December 2019, Ms J booked flights via a travel agent in order to attend her friends 
wedding on 4 April 2020 and for onward travel to a second destination country. The 
intended departure and return dates were 31 March 2020 and 4 May 2020 respectively. 
On 4 March 2020, Ms J bought an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with URV.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advised against all but 
essential travel abroad because of covid-19. On 19 March 2020, the first destination 
country on Ms Js travels closed its borders to all non-citizens and non-residents, with 
effect from 20 March 2020. 
On 28 March 2020, Ms J gave the travel agent instructions to cancel her flights. Ms Js 
travel agent said that the airline wont issue refunds and wasnt obliged to do so as      
Ms Js outgoing flight operated as planned. It said that the airline could change the date 
of the flights to later in the year, before 31 December 2020. The travel agent later said 
that rebooked travel must be completed by 30 June 2021.
Ms J made a claim against her policy. URV declined her claim. It said that the FCO 
advice wasnt an unexpected event when Ms J bought her policy. URV said that the risk 
of the FCO advising against travel to Ms Js travel destinations had been well publicised 
for some time. It noted that Ms J hadnt bought her travel insurance policy when she 
booked her trip and hadnt done so until 4 March 2020. Ms J wasnt happy about that 
and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that URV had 
treated Ms J fairly in declining her claim. The investigator didnt think that there was 
evidence to conclude that the change in the FCO advice was expected. He said that he 
was satisfied that Ms J couldnt recover her costs through her travel agent. The 
investigator said that URV should settle Ms Js claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy. 
URV didnt agree with the investigator. It said that Ms J hadnt given a valid reason for 
the gap between booking her trip and buying the policy. The investigator considered 
what URV said but didnt change his view. URV asked that an ombudsman consider the 
matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
If this happened:
You had to cancel your trip because the 
following unexpectedly happened before you 
left home:
[]
The Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office advise against all but essential 
travel within a 30 mile radius of your 
trip destination.This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to
£1,250
for your share of any costs that are directly 
related to your trip, which you have paid and 
cannot get back from anyone else, or which 
cannot be transferred or used for another 
purpose.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
URV declined Ms Js claim because it said that the risk of the FCO advising against travel to 
Ms Js intended destinations was known when Ms J bought her policy and that Ms J didnt 
buy her policy when she booked her trip. I dont think that URV treated Ms J fairly in 
declining her claim. Ill explain why:
I dont agree with URVs contention that when Ms J bought her policy on                    
4 March 2020, the FCO advice against non-essential travel was expected. On           
4 March 2020, the World Health Organisation hadnt yet declared covid-19 a 
pandemic and there were no restrictions on travel to Ms Js intended destinations. 
Significantly, it wasnt until some days later that URV excluded covid-19 risk from the 
sort of policy Ms J purchased. URV is the expert here and the timing of its actions 
doesnt suggest that on 4 March 2020, it expected the FCO to advise against travel. 
When Ms J bought the policy, I dont think that she was better placed than URV to 
judge the imminent threat of covid-19. I havent seen anything convincing to 
persuade me that on 4 March 2020 it was expected that the FCO would 
subsequently advise against travel to Ms Js intended destinations. 
URV says that Ms J hasnt given a valid reason for the gap between booking her trip 
in December 2019 and buying the policy on 4 March 2020. Ms J wasnt obliged to 
buy her travel policy when she booked her trip. Ms J says that she bought her travel 
insurance policy the day after she got her visa for her first destination country. Ms J 
has provided a copy of her visa dated 3 March 2020. I accept that Ms J bought her 
policy after she received her travel visa for her first destination. The cancellation cover in Ms Js policy provides that URV will pay costs directly 
related to the trip which Ms J cant get back from anyone else, or which cant be 
transferred or used for another purpose. Ms J has provided evidence from her travel 
agent that she isnt entitled to a refund of her flight costs, as the flight departed, as 
planned. Theres been reference to a travel voucher. Ms J pursued that with her 
travel agent but hasnt heard from them since June 2020. She doesnt have a travel 
voucher from the airline. Ms J says that she paid for the flights with her debit card 
and attempted to get the money back from her bank, without success. Based on what 
Ive seen, on balance, Im satisfied that Ms Js costs cant be recovered from anyone 
else and cant be transferred or used for another purpose. 
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to decline Ms Js claim 
on the basis that she may be able to get a credit voucher from the airline via her 
travel agent. Thats because the primary purpose of Ms Js trip was the wedding at 
her first destination: she has no reason to travel there anymore. In addition, Ms J has 
provided evidence that her financial position has changed significantly since      
March 2020, so it wouldnt be reasonable to conclude that Ms J could use any credit 
voucher for another purpose.  
Putting things right
To put things right, URV should pay Ms Js claim in line with the remaining policy terms. It 
must also pay interest on the settlement amount at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the 
date Ms J made her claim, to the date it makes the payment. HM Revenue & Customs 
requires URV to take off tax from this interest. URV must give Ms J a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off, if she asks for one. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is  that I uphold Ms Js complaint.         
Union Reiseversicherung AG should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman