DRN-3493142
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding an 
application for a Bounce Bank Loan (BBL)
What happened
In August 2020, Mr N applied to HSBC for a BBL on behalf of his limited company, which Ill 
refer to as Z. Mr N didnt receive any updates from HSBC about the status of the 
application, and so chased HSBC for an update in both October and November 2020.
Mr N eventually received an email from HSBC in March 2021. This email advised that HSBC 
had concerns about the legal entity status of Z. Mr N spoke with HSBC about this, and 
discovered that the HSBC business account for Z, which Mr N believed was a limited 
company account, was in fact a sole trader account, and that it was this discrepancy which 
was causing the issues with the application. 
Mr N contacted HSBC about this, but was then told that the application had been declined 
and that because the deadline for new BBL applications had passed he wouldnt be able to 
reapply for a BBL. Mr N wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Ns complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr N wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly by declining the BBL application on the basis that they did. But they did feel that 
HSBC had taken an unreasonably long time to advise Mr N about the nature of the 
complications with the application, and that Mr N had been unfairly inconvenienced as a 
result. So, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ns favour on 
that limited basis, and that HSBC should make a compensation payment of £150 to Mr N.
Mr N didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that the HSBC account was set up by Mr N on a sole trader 
basis when it was first opened, and this is because its evident that the account was set 
almost a year before Z was incorporated as a limited company.
Following the incorporation of Z, it was Mr Ns responsibility to have contacted HSBC and to 
have changed the business account from a sole trader to a limited company account. But 
theres no record of Mr N ever contacting HSBC to change the business account to a limited 
company account, and so I dont feel that HSBC can be reasonably held responsible for the 
complications that arose with the application because of the BBL being applied for against Z 
as a limited company when HSBCs understanding of the business continued to be that was 
being operated on a sole trader basis.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that the BBL application that Mr N made in August 2020 was never 
going to be successful, because it referenced Z as being a different legal entity to that which 
HSBC had record of. And HSBC have confirmed that for the BBL application to have been 
resubmitted successfully, a new business bank account would need to have been opened 
for Z on a limited company basis, before any BBL re-application could be considered.
It follows from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint on the basis that Mr N 
would like here  i.e. I wont be instructing HSBC to provide Mr N with a loan on the same 
terms as the BBL. And this is because, as explained, I dont feel that HSBC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably for declining the BBL application made by Mr N for the reasons they did.
However, given that the BBL scheme was set up in response to the emergence and 
unprecedented financial impact of Covid-19, one of the intended features of the scheme was 
that lenders should made application decisions quickly. But in this instance HSBC didnt 
attempt to contact Mr N about the complications with the BBL application until February 
2021, which was six months after Mr N made the application in August 2020.
This doesnt seem fair to me, and I do feel that Mr N has incurred a degree of trouble and 
upset that he reasonably shouldnt have incurred because of HSBCs delays in progressing 
the application. Consequently, I will be upholding this complaint on this limited basis only, 
and instructing HSBC to make a payment of £150 to Mr N.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But in 
arriving at a compensation instruction of £150, Ive considered that this compensation is 
solely in regard to HSBCs delays in moving the BBL application forwards, and isnt in any 
way an instruction against HSBC for declining the BBL application, which as explained 
previously Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to have done.
Ive also considered that while Mr N has confirmed that he did chase the status of the BBL 
application with HSBC, it seems reasonable to me that he could have chased the status of 
his application with HSBC on further occasions, which may have progressed matters more 
quickly. And this is especially the case as Mr N has confirmed that he made successful BBL 
applications for other businesses he owns, which I feel provided Mr N with an indication of 
the timeframes that such applications should take.
Mr N has confirmed to this service that his ability to contact HSBC was affected by his need 
to travel overseas for family matters, including bereavements. I can sympathise with Mr N in 
this regard and I understand how such things would take precedent. But given the impartial 
nature of this service, when arriving at the £150 compensation amount that I have, I had to 
consider the impact that Mr N being unable to contact HSBC may have had in regard to the 
application complications potentially being explained to him earlier than they were.
Of course, it can be argued that HSBC themselves should have done more to try to contact 
Mr N about the ongoing issues with his application. Im in agreement with this point, and its 
for this reason that Im instructing the compensation to Mr N that I am. But I also feel that 
when it becomes evident that an application isnt progressing through a business as it should 
do  as was the case in this instance  a point can be reached whereby the business and 
the applicant must both bear responsibility for the application not moving forwards. 
Mr N also feels that HSBCs delays in informing him about the application issues meant that when he did learn about them the deadline for new BBL applications had passed. And Im 
also aware that Mr N feels that because the other BBL applications he made to HSBC were 
successful, it stands to reason that the application he made for Z would also have been 
successful, had the complications surrounding that application been resolved sooner.
I can appreciate Mr Ns frustration here, but HSBC tried to contact Mr N by telephone in 
February 2021 on two occasions, albeit unsuccessfully, before then cancelling the 
application on 18 March 2021 and emailing Mr N about this. But unfortunately, because Mr N 
was overseas, he didnt see this email until after the BBL deadline had passed.
As explained previously, I understand and appreciate that important personal matters meant 
that Mr N had to be overseas. But I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably censure HSBC 
for not being able to contact him while he was overseas, or hold HSBC solely responsible for 
the deadline passing without Mr N becoming fully aware as to what had happened, 
especially as the responsibility for updating HSBC as to the incorporated status of Z, which 
was the root cause of all the issues, had rested with Mr N.
Finally, I note that that Mr N made a second application to HSBC which wasnt successful for 
the same reason as the first application  specifically, because Mr N applied on a limited 
company basis when his account with HSBC was as a sole trader. As such, much of the 
reasoning Ive outlined above regarding the first application also applies to the second 
application, and so I wont be discussing the second application in further detail in this letter.
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ns favour, Ill only be 
doing so on the limited basis explained above. I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr N 
was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £150 to Mr N.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman