DRN-3546861
The complaint
Mr B complains that etika Finance UK Limited irresponsibly granted him a fixed sum loan 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mr B was provided with a fixed sum loan agreement by Etika to pay for a 
training course. Mr B paid a deposit of £30 and was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of £90. The total repayable under the agreement was £4,324.
Mr B says that Etika didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Etika didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included a credit check, bank and ID check and income and 
expenditure check. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Etika didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Etika will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, a credit check was completed and although I havent seen a 
copy of this, having reviewed the credit report provided by Mr B, this doesnt show any 
county court judgements or defaults. While Mr B did have other credit commitments these 
were being settled and so, based on what I have seen, I do not find that the information in 
the credit report meant that further checks were required. 
Mr B was asked about his employment. He said he was employed full time with a monthly 
income of £1,000. I havent seen evidence to show that Mr B was asked details about his 
expenditure. Although a credit check was completed and information obtained about Mr Bs 
ongoing credit commitments, this wont have indicated what Mr Bs regular living expenses 
were. Without knowing what Mr Bs regular committed expenditure was Etika wouldnt have 
got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore 
didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence gathered. I cant be certain what Mr B would 
have said had he been asked about his regular expenditure. But Ive placed significant 
weight on the information contained in Mr Bs statements as an indication of what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements provided for the time prior to the application. These show 
Mr B was paying around £80 a month to a communication provider and around £250 for food 
and fuel. I note Mr Bs comments that he was spending all his earnings and had limited left 
at the end of each week, but his statements show limited fixed commitments. Mr Bs credit 
file didnt show anything that would suggest he was paying more than had been included in 
the assessment. At the time Mr B declared a monthly income of £1,000 and his bank 
statements show a slightly higher amount. Taking these figures into account, it appears to 
show the agreement was affordable to Mr B. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Etika 
acted unfairly in approving the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman