DRN-3225189
The complaint
 Ms J complains about a loan provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as Loans 2 
Go, which she says was unaffordable.
 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Ms J with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Taken Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDate repaid
30/12/2019 £600 18 months £137.13 06/05/2020
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Did Loans 2 Go carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Ms J about her income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Ms Js income and expenditure based on an online verification tool 
for her income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It says 
it made its calculations about Ms Js expenditure by using what it saw in his credit report.  
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Ms Js 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I acknowledge the comments it has made, but 
I dont think its checks were proportionate for this loan. Loan 2 Gos credit search results for 
Ms J showed credit impairment that I think ought to have caused it concerns. In particular I 
can see that Ms J was over her credit limit on a credit card, and there was a relatively large 
balance outstanding. The search results showed that Ms J was under an arrangement to pay 
on this card after being in arrears over several months. There was also a defaulted account 
that still had a balance outstanding to repay.
I think when Loans to Go saw this information, it ought to have prompted it to want to find out 
more and carry out further checks to assure itself that the loan repayments for this loan were 
sustainable for Ms J. 
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Ms J would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Ms J could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Ms J has provided for the months leading up to her application for the loan. Having done so, 
its clear Ms J was reliant on using finance to cover a short fall in her finances including 
taking loans by other short-term lenders. In the month leading up to Loans 2 Go granting the 
loan, there were transactions to 3 other short-term providers that totalled £600.49. She was 
also persistently in her overdraft which was attracting fees. At the point Loans 2 Go agreed 
to this loan, Ms J would have taken on credit commitments that took up around 33% of her 
income each month. It is clear to me after seeing this, and looking through her statements, 
that Ms J was struggling to manage her finances. In short, the loan repayments for this loan 
from Loans 2 Go wouldnt have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Ms J would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Ms J.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with the loan for the reasons given above.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties responded and had no further comments to make.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I uphold Ms Js complaint. 
  
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Ms J shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Ms J received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Ms J made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Ms J was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Ms J to the date of settlement;remove any adverse information placed on Ms Js credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Js complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as I have described above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman