DRN-3649812
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R had a water leak at their home. They complain about the length of time it took 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to deal with the claim on their home 
insurance. References to RSA Include other organisations and individuals acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mrs and Mr R had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by RSA. They discovered a 
water leak which affected their kitchen and downstairs bathroom. They made a claim on their 
policy. While they were waiting for the work to be done Mrs and Mr R were unable to use 
their kitchen or downstairs bathroom. RSA arranged for a kitchen pod to be placed on their 
drive, which Mrs and Mr R say meant they had to cook outside in all weather conditions. Mrs 
R had difficulty using the upstairs bathroom and on occasion had to go elsewhere to have a 
shower.
There was a delay in dealing with Mrs and Mr Rs claim and repairing the damage to their 
home. Mrs and Mr R werent happy with this and complained to RSA. RSA upheld their 
complaint, apologised for the avoidable delays and paid them £200 compensation. 
Mrs and Mr R werent happy with RSAs response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator upheld their complaint and said RSA should pay them another £250 to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience the delays caused. 
Mrs and Mr R werent happy with the investigators recommendation, so their complaint has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs and Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Sadly water leaks like the one at Mrs and Mr Rs home do tend to cause a lot of 
inconvenience. In Mrs and Mr Rs case, the damaged kitchen and bathroom fittings had to 
be removed, tiles containing asbestos tested and removed, and the rooms completely dried 
out and refurbished. At the beginning of the claim RSA said this would probably take two to 
three months, and offered to pay for alternative accommodation for Mrs and Mr R. However 
Mrs and Mr R wanted to stay in their home and accepted the offer of the kitchen pod to help 
with this. 
It actually took approximately five months for the work on Mrs and Mr Rs home to be 
completed. RSA have accepted that there was an avoidable delay during this time of 
approximately seven weeks. 
RSA did discuss arranging alternative accommodation with Mrs and Mr R more than once. 
The claims handler said if Mrs R was having difficulty using the upstairs bathroom to come 
back to her and she would look at other alternatives. However Mrs and Mr R said throughout 
that they wanted to stay in their own home.
Theres no dispute that the work at Mrs and Mr Rs home took longer than it should have. 
This caused them distress and inconvenience, particularly because of Mrs Rs difficulty using 
the upstairs bathroom. RSA has already apologised and made a compensation payment of 
£200 in recognition of this. However I think the payment for distress and inconvenience 
should be increased by a further £250, making a total of £450, in line with what this service 
would usually recommend.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mrs and Mr Rs complaint. I require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr R a further £250 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience the avoidable delays caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman