DRN-4196427
The complaint
Mr N complains about the policy excess amount Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) 
are requiring him to pay following a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N held a motor insurance policy with Calpe which carried an all sections excess of 
£3,000. In 2021, Calpe contacted Mr N following an incident he had with a third-party. They 
requested he paid an excess of £2,426.23 for the claim. They say these costs were for third-
party vehicle repairs, and car hire, amongst other things. Calpe say they accepted fault on 
Mr Ns behalf based on the circumstances of the incident, the information provided by the 
third-party insurer, and because the policy entitled them to do so. 
Mr N thought the excess amount was far too high. He says he bumped into the rear of the 
third-party vehicle at low speed, and no damage was caused to either vehicle. He doesnt 
think the amount hes been requested to pay is reasonable, so he asked our Service for an 
impartial review. 
The investigator recommended the complaint be partially upheld. He thought the excess 
amount Calpe were seeking from Mr N was reasonable overall  other than £72 for a vehicle 
inspection he didnt think was fair to pass on to Mr N. So, he recommended this amount be 
deducted from the overall excess or refund it back to Mr N with interest if he had already 
paid it. Calpe didnt respond, and Mr N maintained no damage occurred and the excess was 
unfair. As such, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy requires Mr N to contribute towards any claim, even in circumstances such as 
these where he isnt claiming for damage to his vehicle, but a third-party is. The policy also 
sets out Calpe can take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim they see fit. 
Here - it was said Mr N was involved in a low-speed impact with the rear of the third-party 
vehicle. And although Mr N says no damage occurred to either vehicle, the third-party 
insurer provided an engineers report that set out, broadly, some damage to the rear bumper 
was present  such as to paintwork and parking sensors. Calpe considered the area of 
impact, and the damage reported by the engineer, and considered there to be no reasonable 
prospects of success of disputing liability for the damage through the courts. Im satisfied 
that was fair and reasonable. I say this because Im satisfied Calpe took reasonable steps to 
consider all the information presented by Mr N and the third-party insurer. 
The report from the engineer included photos of some damage. Mr N has provided a photo 
which he says supports that no damage was caused, but Im not persuaded his photo would 
change anything here. I say this because the engineer provided multiple photos of what they 
considered to be bumper damage from several angles. Ive reviewed the repairs undertaken 
to the third-party vehicle, and Im not persuaded these repairs were excessive or unrelated 
to the 2021 incident involving Mr N. I say this because repairs broadly included works to the 
rear bumper said to have been impacted (albeit at low speed) by Mr Ns vehicle. 
The third-party insurer also requested recovery of hire car costs. Initially, this amounted to 
roughly £1,300. The claim notes suggest Calpe disputed this and later negotiated it down to 
a significantly reduced figure of £750. The hire car was used for nine days which is the time 
the third-party vehicle was with the repairer  between inspection and repairs being 
completed. All things considered  Im satisfied Calpe took reasonable steps here to 
challenge the costs presented by the third-party insurer to reach a fair settlement in this 
respect. So, I wont be requiring Calpe to make any reductions to the total excess amount in 
respect of the third-party vehicle repairs, or the hire car costs. 
The investigator correctly set out we wouldnt expect an insurer to pass on general claim 
handling costs which are part and parcel of providing insurance. It wasnt fair for Calpe to 
pass on a £72 fee for a vehicle inspection to Mr N, so Calpe must either remove this from 
the total excess amount or refund it back to Mr N if hes already paid this with interest. 
Putting things right
In concluding, while I appreciate my decision will come to disappoint Mr N, Im satisfied 
Calpe took reasonable steps to consider the claim, and costs presented by the third-party 
insurer. But I dont find they acted fairly when passing on a £72 claim handling cost to Mr N. 
So, they must now either deduct this from the total excess amount or refund it to Mr N if hes 
already paid this, and include 8% simple interest*, from the date Mr N paid this, to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
to put matters right as set out above. 
*If Calpe Insurance Company Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr N how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman