DRN-3339452
The complaint
Mrs S complains he believed Lloyds Bank PLC had agreed a three-month payment holiday 
on his loans which would extend his loan term. But he discovered arrears were recorded and 
his loan repayments would increase.
What happened
Mr S called Lloyds in April 2021 to request they freeze repayments to his two loans for three 
months. He said he wanted to use this money towards a deposit for a house he was buying, 
as there would be a delay in accessing savings he had. 
Lloyds agreed to provide the payment freeze on both loans for three months and confirmed 
this in two letters to Mr S. 
Mr S later discovered that Lloyds had recorded missed payments on his credit file and his 
loans were now in arrears. To address this, Lloyds required Mr S to repay the arrears on 
each loan. 
Mr S wasnt happy with what happened, so he complained to Lloyds. He believed a payment 
holiday had been agreed and hed been told his loans would be extended by three months. 
He thought Lloyds had made a mistake when they recorded the arrears. He wanted Lloyds 
to extend his loan, in line with what he thought had been agreed, and remove any adverse 
information recorded on his credit file. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Ss complaint in September 2021. They didnt agree theyd done 
anything wrong. They said theyd agreed a nil payment plan and that missed payments 
would be reported as arrears. They asked Mr S to discuss options with them for clearing the 
arrears. But this meant his loan repayments would likely increase.
Mr S wasnt happy with Lloyds response to his complaint. So, he asked this service to 
investigate further for him.
Our Investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. Our investigator thought the 
letters Lloyds sent to Mr S confirming the arrangement were clear about what was agreed, 
giving Mr S the opportunity to raise any concerns.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. He insisted he was told he had a 
repayment holiday and his loan would be extended. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have provided this service with recordings of the call received from Mr S in April 
2021, together with a transcript. Part of this call couldnt be recovered in full due to technical 
difficulties. Having listened to the recording, Lloyds made it clear that a payment holiday 
option was no longer available. But they would consider a temporary payment plan for three 
months 
Mr S said he wanted his payments suspending as he needed to pay a deposit towards a 
house purchase. He confirmed he had savings but couldnt access these for 2-3 months. He 
said he could normally afford the repayments but didnt want to lose the property he was 
buying.
Ive also seen copies of letters Lloyds sent to Mr S confirming the agreement reached. 
Within them they said, the payment plan we spoke about is now in place. You wont need 
to pay anythingduring this period. Your plan will end on 6 July 2021. This temporary plan 
will not clear the amount you are behind by and your normal monthly payments are still due 
each monthyou will need to get in touch...so that we can see what we can do for you 
next.
Under the heading Something to think about, the letters said, Being behind with your 
payments can affect your credit scoreIt may also stay on your credit file for 6 years.
I think the letters are clear that Lloyds hadnt agreed payment holidays but nil payment 
plans, i.e. Mr S didnt have to make his contracted payments during the plans. I also think 
they clearly explained the potential consequences of the plans. 
From what Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds have done anything wrong here. It 
appears Mr S may have misunderstood what had been agreed with Lloyds. And as the 
content of the letters was different to what Mr S understood, I think he shouldve been aware 
of this once he received them. The letters included contact details and telephone numbers 
for Mr S to use in the event he had any concerns or questions. So, he shouldve been able to 
raise any concerns with Lloyds at the time.
I do appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, but Im unable to agree with him as I cant see that 
Lloyds have made a mistake here. Lloyds confirmed what theyd discussed and agreed 
within their letters, which were sent to Mr S promptly after their discussions with him.
It now appears Mr S is experiencing some financial difficulties. I would encourage Mr S to 
discuss his current circumstances openly with Lloyds so that an acceptable solution can be 
found. Mr S may also want to consider seeking independent advice and support from one of 
the free debt advisory services that are available.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman