DRN-3910959
The complaint
Mr Gs complained about the amount of the settlement Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
paid for his critical illness claim. 
What happened
Mr G bought a life and critical illness policy from Aviva in June 2018.  At the time of 
purchase, it provided cover of £317,331.  And it provided for the cover to increase each year.
In February 2022, Mr G was diagnosed with a condition covered by the policy.  He submitted 
a claim form and supporting documentation to Aviva in early May.  At this point his cover had 
a value of £338,716.35.  
The value of the cover increased to £365,275.57 from the policy anniversary in June 2022.  
Mr Gs claim was settled in late July.  Aviva paid Mr G £338,716.35, plus interest of 
£2,858.00.  And they refunded premiums totalling £577.68.
Mr G complained to Aviva about the level of the settlement.  He said he should receive the 
amount of his cover in July 2022, ie, £365,275.57. 
Aviva rejected Mr Gs complaint.  They said Mr G had met the definition of critical illness 
when he was diagnosed.  So theyd paid him the amount he was covered for then.  And 
theyd refunded premiums hed paid after that.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and brought his complaint to our service.  He 
argued that the relevant date for determining how much the claim should be settled for was 
when the claim was accepted  which he said was July 2022.  And he said he should be 
paid interest on the settlement from the date of his diagnosis until the date of settlement.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Aviva didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  She noted the policy says:
Well pay this benefit if the life covered meets our definition of critical illness during the 
policy term and survives for at least 10 days
And that the definition of critical illness was:
The diagnosis of, or the undergoing of surgery for an illness or condition, suffered by the life 
covered.
She was satisfied Mr G met the policy criteria 10 days after his diagnosis, in February 2022.  
And so the investigator said it was fair to pay the value of the cover in place at that time. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
My role is to decide whether Aviva dealt with, and settled, the claim in line with the policy 
terms and their usual processes.  I can only say they should do something different if I dont 
think thats the case.
Ive set out above the definitions of both critical illness and critical illness benefit.  Critical 
illness refers to the point at which the illness is diagnosed.  And the definition of critical 
illness benefit adds a requirement of surviving 10 days after this point.  So I think its fair to 
conclude from the definitions that the date of diagnosis is key to determining when a claim is 
accepted.  
And I think its reasonable for Aviva to use the date of diagnosis to determine the amount 
paid.  Aviva have said they use this date to make sure they assess all claims in the same 
way  which I think is fair, as it gives certainty to both parties.  And it means the value of the 
claim isnt impacted by any delays in Avivas assessment process.  
Mr G referred to the length of time Aviva took to pay the claim in his correspondence with 
them  although I cant see that Aviva specifically addressed the point.  Its true that payment 
wasnt made until late July.  But insurers are entitled to verify the information they receive in 
support of a claim before paying it.  
Mr G says he submitted his claim in May.  Its clear from what hes said there was evidence 
to review.  I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to have taken until July to verify and pay 
the claim.  Aviva have paid Mr G interest on the settlement amount for the period  which I 
think is fair.
Finally Ive considered Mr Gs complaint about the amount of interest he received.  Hes said 
this equated to an annual rate of 1.7% and doesnt recognise the level of inflation at the time.  
Ive thought about this, but Im satisfied Aviva dont need to pay any more than they have.  
Its not fair for me to say this is inadequate because of the prevailing rate of inflation.  
Rather, I need to be satisfied that it reflects the rate of interest generally available at the 
time.  I am satisfied thats the case.  So I dont think Aviva need to pay any more to Mr G to 
resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman