DRN-4369090
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of Ireland) unfairly closed his accounts. 
What happened
The facts of this case are known to both parties so I will summarise below.
Mr W had two business accounts with Bank of Ireland, which hed had for a number of years. 
Mr W has explained that he used the accounts to receive rental payments and pay bills 
associated with rental properties including repairs. Hes said he also used one of the 
accounts to make payments towards a loan he had with another financial business.
Bank of Ireland wrote to Mr W explaining that it was completing a review of Mr Ws accounts 
and needed some information from him which required Mr W to provide certified documents 
to the bank to verify his identity and address. Mr W complied with the request and supplied 
documents certified by a solicitor. However, the certification was done by a non- practicing 
solicitor. Following this Bank of Ireland decided to close Mr Ws account immediately in 
October 2020. It didnt give Mr W a reason for the closure.
 
Mr W has said the immediate closure caused financial problems for him in that his monthly 
loan payments werent able to be made and the loan fell into default. He also said he had to 
go to the trouble of arranging alternative means for tenants to make rental payments to him.  
It was also difficult to find a new account in the UK, although this was eventually done. 
Unhappy with the banks decision to close his accounts, Mr W submitted a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR). In response he received some internal communications from Bank 
of Ireland which suggested the account had been closed because hed provided ID 
documents which were fraudulent, which Mr W found very upsetting.
Mr W complained to Bank of Ireland about the closure of his accounts. He said Bank of 
Ireland didnt specify the documents needed to be certified by a practicing solicitor nor had it 
given him the opportunity to clarify or correct this before closing his accounts. Hes also 
pointed to legislation which he says confirms that the definition of a solicitor includes a 
solicitor that doesnt hold a practicing certificate. Hes said that had the bank gone back to 
him and explained this, he would have happily resubmitted any information needed. 
Bank of Ireland said that staff responsible for requesting the information and involved in 
Mr Ws account review no longer worked at the bank. So, it couldnt complete a full 
investigation of what had happened. Bank of Ireland offered Mr W £50 compensation for any 
trouble and upset failing to contact him about the documents had caused.
Unhappy with Bank of Irelands actions, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She explained that Bank of Ireland had acted within 
the terms and conditions when closing the accounts and it didnt have to provide its reasons 
for doing so to Mr W.
Mr W disagreed. He pointed out that Bank of Ireland has confirmed to him that the only 
reason it closed Mr Ws account immediately was because of the issue with the document 
certification. He pointed out that a person can be a solicitor and not hold a practicing 
certificate because when qualified, all solicitors are entered onto the roll of solicitors, where 
they remain unless they are removed. 
Mr W says Bank of Ireland had no reason to reach a conclusion of fraud or criminal activity 
that would warrant a closure of his accounts without notice. He also explained that he and 
his business still have many accounts with Bank of Ireland, ROI.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. Having looked at all 
the evidence I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following;
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr W and 
Bank of Ireland have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Bank of 
Ireland has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr W, but Id like to reassure him that I 
have considered everything.
Ill deal first with Bank of Irelands decision to review Mr Ws accounts. Bank of Ireland has 
important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to 
customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is 
opened. To comply with its obligations Bank of Ireland may need to review an account and 
ask customers for information in order to comply with these obligations.  
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Bank of Ireland to ask Mr W for information. Bank of Ireland has explained that this was 
its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. The information Bank of Ireland was asking 
Mr W to provide is fairly standard information that banks, and other financial businesses are 
required to have in order to adhere to the Know Your Customer (KYC) responsibilities (also 
known as Customer Due Diligence or CDD), as set out by the regulator - the Financial 
Conduct Authority. So, I cant say Bank of Ireland treated Mr W unfairly when it asked him to 
provide information.
However, having looked at all the available evidence, including the unredacted documents 
Mr W obtained from submitting a DSAR, I dont think Bank of Ireland treated Mr W fairly 
when it reviewed the documents Mr W provided. I say this because although I accept that it 
is within Bank of Irelands prerogative to have documents certified by a practicing solicitor, I 
havent seen anything to suggest Bank of Ireland specified this requirement to Mr W at any 
point. And having reviewed Bank of Irelands policy around document certification, it does 
say that if the document doesnt meet the required standards, it should be returned to the 
customer and re-certification requested to the appropriate standards. Bank of Ireland didnt 
do this and so I can understand why Mr W us upset  especially given the suggestion in the 
DSAR documents that Mr W acted fraudulently in supplying the documents he did. Mr W has 
said that had the bank gone back to him, he would have either provided the original 
document or had it re-certified by a practising solicitor. And I have no reason to doubt that he 
would have done so. From looking at the final response letter Bank of Ireland sent to Mr W dated 24 November 
2021, it appears that the bank accepts that the service it provided to Mr W around its 
certification process fell short. And it offered Mr W £50 compensation for any trouble and 
upset he was caused by the bank failing to contact Mr W to explain that the documents hed 
provided didnt meet its criteria. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect 
of Mr Ws complaint.
I next turn to Bank of Irelands decision to close Mr Ws accounts. I understand why Mr W 
believes the reason for the closure rests solely on the certification and Im in agreement that 
this appears to be the main factor. But Bank of Ireland has also shared with this service in 
confidence additional rationale behind the closure. And having reviewed its reasons, whilst 
Im satisfied Bank of Ireland was able to close Mr Ws accounts under the terms and 
conditions, Im not satisfied it treated Mr W fairly when it closed his accounts with immediate 
effect. 
Bank of Ireland can close accounts in certain circumstances, and it sets this out in the terms 
and conditions of accounts. Ive looked at the terms relating to Mr Ws accounts, and they 
state the bank can close an account immediately  or give notice of around two months. 
Having reviewed all the information, I would expect to see stronger evidence than it has 
provided. As already mentioned, Im not satisfied that the bank followed its process in terms 
of the document certification It failed to ask any follow up questions or give Mr W an 
opportunity to provide further information when the certified documents were submitted to 
alleviate any concerns it may have had. Taking this into account, I have seen nothing that 
convinces me an immediate closure was warranted or permitted under the terms and 
conditions. Having looked at whats happened here, I think the bank should have given Mr W 
more notice.
Looking at the impact the immediate closure had on Mr W, I think Bank of Ireland should pay 
him £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused. Its clear that having no 
notice of the closure caused Mr W inconvenience and upset. He had to quickly arrange 
alternative ways for tenants to make rental payments and pay ongoing bills. I note too that 
Mr W has said that he fell into arrears with loan repayments. Hes provided a letter from his 
loan company dated 5 November 2021 in support of what hes said. But having looked at the 
letter, Im not satisfied that the immediate closure of Mr Ws accounts led to the arrears. 
Mr W also hasnt explained why he couldnt continue to meet his loan repayments from 
elsewhere. When reaching this award, Ive considered that Mr W would always have had to 
find another account elsewhere. 
Putting things right 
In order to put things right I said Bank of Ireland should do the following:
Pay Mr W £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by closing his 
accounts without notice. 
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr W £50 compensation for failing to contact him to 
let him know that the documents hed submitted werent sufficient
Bank of Ireland didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr W did. In summary he said:
He wants an explanation why his bank account was closed.
He went to a great deal of trouble clarifying facts with the bank, but it still rejected his 
complaint and closed his account. The bank made very serious allegations of fraud and criminal behavior against him, 
which has caused him great distress and led to him seeking medical help.
His good name has been damaged by these false allegations being circulated 
amongst staff at the bank and he wants this corrected. He also wants his credit rating 
to be changed if necessary. And an apology from the bank.
He believes that the bank used untrained and inexperienced staff to save the costs of 
its compliance obligations. And its no coincidence that the staff who dealt the KYC 
exercise relating to his account have now left the bank.
He wants to know more about the additional information provided by the bank to our 
service and why this not been shared with him.
Given the serious allegation of fraud made against him he should be awarded more 
compensation.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; codes of practice; and 
where appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
As Bank of Ireland didnt respond to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my findings that it was incorrect to close Mr Ws account immediately and should have 
provided notice.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr W has highlighted a number of concerns, which 
Ill now address below.
Mr W feels Bank of Irelands complaint procedure didnt identify the issues I have with the 
closure of his account. I agree with him on this point and that is why I have upheld the 
complaint. Its clear Bank of Ireland felt that had a basis for closing Mr Ws account 
immediately but as Ive explained, I dont agree. 
Mr Ws is concerned about the expertise and experience of the staff involved in the KYC 
exercise concerning his account. I want to make it clear that whilst I understand the point 
Mr W makes, were not the regulator of financial businesses and we dont police their 
internal processes or how they operate generally. Its not for me to tell the bank who it 
should employ or how it should train staff. If Mr W has concerns about the level of skill of the 
banks compliance staff and its processes, he should direct this to the regulator, The 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr W says it is no coincidence that staff who carried out his KYC exercise no longer work at 
the bank, which means it cant complete a full investigation of what happened   in other 
words Bank of Ireland is covering up whats happened.  
This is a serious allegation. Weve asked Bank of Ireland about its rationale for closing Mr 
Ws account. I would expect it to set out for our service the full details of all of its interactions 
with Mr W when asked to do so. And the events which led to the closure of Mr Ws account.  Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest it hasnt done so. And I dont think, as Mr W 
seems to fear, that there is anyone within Bank of Ireland who is deliberately misleading or 
withholding information from this service. 
Mr W wants the bank to explain why it no longer wanted him as a customer. In addition to 
what Ive already said in my provisional decision, I should explain that each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to continue providing 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the commercial freedom to decide who it 
wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank or financial business must keep a customer. But they must treat new and 
existing customers fairly.
At times, following a review, such as a KYC process, banks sometimes choose to end their 
relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt 
obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr W decided to stop banking 
with Bank of Ireland, he wouldnt have to explain why. 
I appreciate that it cant be pleasant being told youre no longer wanted as a customer. And I 
acknowledge what Mr W has said about how Bank of Irelands actions impacted him  
especially because he hasnt been told the reasons behind the banks decision. But Bank of 
Ireland is under no obligation to tell Mr W the reasons behind the account review and 
closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr W this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.  As long as 
this service can be satisfied the reasons for closing an account were legitimate, fair, and free 
from discrimination, then it is a decision the financial business is entitled to make. 
Mr W wants to know more about the information that has been provided to us by the Bank of 
Ireland. As I set out in my provisional decision, some of the information Bank of Ireland has 
provided is information that I consider should be kept confidential. This means I wont be 
sharing this with Mr W. Our rules allow me to do this. 
Our services powers are set out in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook. DISP 3.5.2. says:
The Ombudsman may:
1. (1) 
exclude evidence that would otherwise be admissible in a court of law or include 
evidence that would not be admissible in such a court;
2. (2) 
where he considers it necessary or appropriate, accept information in confidence, 
so that only an edited version or (where this is not practicable) a summary or 
description is disclosed to the other party;
DISP 3.5.4. states;
For the purposes of DISP 3.5.2 R (2), evidence which the Ombudsman may accept 
in confidence includes confidential evidence about third parties and security 
information.
Mr W wants Bank of Ireland to apologise for accusing him of fraudulent behaviour. He says 
his good name has been damaged and fears his credit rating may have also been impacted 
by the banks actions. But Ive not seen any evidence that this is the case.I recognise that Mr W has been very upset by the bank accusing him of fraud  which he 
discovered after submitting a DSAR to the bank. Ive also read the medical report Mr W has 
kindly provided about how this matter has impacted him. Having done so, I consider the level 
of compensation Ive suggested in my provisional decision is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr W was caused. So, I won be increasing the level of 
compensation.
In reaching this conclusion I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual 
loss, trouble, and upset caused to the consumer by something a financial business did 
wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as 
a means of punishing a business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. Ive 
also not seen any evidence that the closure of Mr Ws accounts and the suspicions held by 
the bank, has caused any damage to Mr Ws reputation, or activities as a 
businessman. So, I cannot therefore find that Bank of Ireland is liable to pay any 
compensation for something there is no evidence of.
In summary, I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but whilst I take on 
board Mr Ws comments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of 
the view that this complaint should be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision. And I direct Bank of 
Ireland to settle the complaint as detailed below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold M Ws complaint against 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. To put things right, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should do the 
following:
Pay Mr W £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by closing his 
accounts without notice. 
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr W £50 compensation for failing to contact him to 
let him know that the documents hed submitted werent sufficient
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman