DRN-3293496
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society reinvested his ISA funds.
What happened
Mr N had a Nationwide fixed rate ISA that was due to mature on 23 August 2019. A 
maturity instruction form was completed that same day which instructed Nationwide to 
reinvest the funds into a Nationwide Loyalty 15 ISA. Nationwide processed this instruction 
and wrote Mr N two letters about this, on 28 and 29 October 2019.
Mr N complained to Nationwide, as hed wanted to instead reinvest his funds into another 
Nationwide fixed rate ISA. In its final response, Nationwide said it had followed the maturity 
form instructions and couldnt see it had delayed the reinvestment, Mr N hadnt lost any 
interest as the reinvested funds were backdated to 23 August 2019, and it wrote to Mr N on 
28 October 2019 confirming the closing balance of his fixed rate ISA. 
Mr N brought his complaint to our Service. He said he signed part of the maturity form but 
not the part asking for a Loyalty 15 ISA, which must have been filled in later by someone 
else. Mr N said Nationwide didnt tell him his fixed rate ISA was maturing and didnt ask him 
what he wanted to do.  That it took Nationwide a long time to transfer his ISA, since 
everything was now held electronically and could be done in minutes. And Nationwide had 
told him his records were missing at its head office and that it had lost his ISA paperwork. 
Our Investigator thought Nationwide had followed the instructions set out in the maturity form 
signed by Mr N, and had needed time to do so. She thought that even if Nationwide had 
unnecessary delayed the reinvestment, the delay would have been relatively short and the 
ISA interest had in any case been backdated so Mr N hadnt lost any interest. She noted the 
Loyalty 15 ISA had a higher interest rate and greater flexibility than the fixed rate ISA. 
Mr N disagreed. He said Nationwide hadnt explained his options and said the Loyalty 15 
ISA was his only option. It didnt update him about the transfer for three months, leaving him 
worried it had lost his funds. Its staff had shouted and were rude to him in branch and in a 
call. And Mr N thought it had given us incorrect information about the ISA interest rates. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear that Im not looking into Mr Ns complaint about rudeness, as Ive not seen 
this is something Mr N has complained to Nationwide about or that Nationwide has had an 
opportunity to address. So Mr N would first need to complain to Nationwide about this and if 
hes unhappy with its response, he could refer that new complaint to our Service. 
Mr N says Nationwide didnt tell him his fixed rate ISA was maturing and didnt explain his 
options. It seems Mr N visited branch about his ISA, and on the day it was due to mature he 
signed an ISA maturity form. I can see that form sets out Mr Ns options for reinvesting his 
funds, including into a fixed rate ISA, which Mr N says is what he wanted. But I must point 
out that Nationwide wasnt providing Mr N with advice here, it was just setting out the options 
available, and it was for Mr N to choose the option he wanted and ask questions if he wasnt 
sure. Nationwide has told us the branch manager who spoke to Mr N when the maturity form 
was completed remembers Mr N, though not what was specifically discussed. And the 
branch manager says the Loyalty 15 ISA offered the highest interest rate at the time and 
Mr N would have been given a leaflet about it. 
Mr N says he didnt complete or sign the part of the maturity form that said his funds should 
be reinvested into a Loyalty 15 ISA. However, Loyalty 15 ISA is handwritten there, and 
there isnt a space for Mr N to sign that part of the form in any case. Though I note Mr N did 
sign the declaration at the bottom of the maturity form which said This application form has 
been completed to the best of my knowledge and belief. and Sign this form to authorise us 
to process your maturity instructions. As Mr N signed this declaration, its reasonable to 
think hed read and agreed with the instructions set out in the maturity form. So I dont have 
enough evidence to fairly say Nationwide made an error here. 
Im satisfied Nationwide followed the instructions set out in the maturity form, because it 
reinvested Mr Ns funds into a Loyalty 15 ISA. Nationwide has provided evidence this gave 
Mr N higher interest and greater flexibility than a fixed rate ISA, including instant access to 
his funds. Its also confirmed the Loyalty 15 ISA is so called because its for customers who 
have been with Nationwide for more than fifteen years, and it doesnt have a fifteen-year 
term. Mr N says Nationwide gave us incorrect evidence about the ISA interest rates. But 
other than Mr Ns belief, Ive seen nothing to suggest this. So I cant fairly say Nationwide 
has made an error here. 
Mr N says Nationwide took too long to reinvest his ISA. But I think its reasonable to expect a 
large business like Nationwide, which will have many customers as well as set processes, 
would need time to process the reinvestment. Mr N signed the maturity form on 
23 August 2019 and Nationwide wrote to him about it on 28 and 29 October 2019. Even if I 
accepted Nationwide had caused an unnecessary delay here, I can see it backdated Mr Ns 
new ISA, so Im satisfied Mr N hasnt lost out on any interest while his ISA was being 
reinvested. And I think this is sufficient in the circumstances.
Mr N says Nationwide didnt update him during the ISA transfer and told him his records and 
paperwork was missing, so he worried hed lost his savings. It seems many of the 
conversations Mr N refers to happened in a Nationwide branch. Its my experience these 
types of conversations arent usually recorded, and as I wasnt present for them I cant be 
certain what was said. However, if I can reassure Mr N, the system records Nationwide has 
provided dont suggest it lost Mr Ns funds or records at any point.
Taking everything into account, Im not asking Nationwide to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman