DRN-3842135
The complaint
Mrs Y complained, through a claims management company, that Zurich Assurance Ltd 
trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc provided unsuitable advice in 1997 when it 
recommended her to invest in a fund that she feels was too risky for her. She is also 
unhappy that she was sold life cover at the same time. 
To put things right, Mrs Y wants financial compensation.
What happened
In December 1997, Mrs Y was advised by Zurich to invest £100 per month into the Maximum 
Investment Plan (MIP) - which she did. The MIP was for 10 years and started in January 
1998.
Mrs Y paid £12,000 into the MIP and got back £15,656.53 when it matured at the end of the 
ten year term on 1 January 2008, making a £3,656.53 return.
Mrs Y mainly complained that she was sold life cover when she was only looking to save 
and said that the MIP was unsuitable for her as it was based 75% on equity investment, 
which didnt reflect her attitude to risk. She was also unhappy with the MIPs performance 
and the impact of charges on the return she received. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. In response to the complaint issues raised, Zurich said, in 
brief summary:
it was satisfied that the MIP was suitable for Mrs Ys circumstances at the time
she had confirmed to the financial adviser that she had a balanced approach to 
investment risk
the MIP was suitable for investors whose approach to risk was balanced
it believed Mrs Y had missed the relevant time limit for complaining about the life 
cover and said it wouldnt be investigating this aspect of the complaint further.
Mrs Y wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator first considered the question of jurisdiction. After explaining to Zurich why he 
felt he could look at all the complaint issues brought by Mrs Y, Zurich consented to us 
investigating Mrs Ys complaint, including her concerns about the life cover..
 
The investigator recommended upholding the complaint. He thought that whilst the life cover 
had offered a clear benefit to Mrs Y, it was overshadowed by the fact that the level of risk 
within the fund was unsuitable based on her circumstances as an inexperienced first-time 
investor. He also felt the MIP carried a level of risk that was higher than the level of risk 
Mrs Y was prepared to accept. This led to the investigator concluding overall that the advice 
provided was unsuitable. He set out the steps he felt Zurich needed to take to put things 
right.
Mrs Y appeared to be happy with this proposed outcome.
Zurich didnt agree with the investigators adjudication in respect of Mrs Ys investment risk 
and believed that the MIP was suitable for her. It also disagreed with the way our 
investigator had suggested redress should be calculated and said the benchmark proposed 
didnt represent a fair comparison. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As Zurich has consented to us looking into Mrs Ys complaint about what happened in 1997 
when it sold this investment, I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Ive looked at what I know about Mrs Ys overall financial situation when she took out this 
investment. In addition to what the parties have told me, I think its reasonable for me to rely 
on information in the Financial Health Check document completed by the financial adviser 
in December 1997 during the course of discussions with Mrs Y and signed by Mrs Y. Ill refer 
to this in my decision as the fact find.
Mrs Y was employed and her annual pre-tax income was around £10,000 per year. She was 
married and she lived in the family home, which was free from mortgage. Her husband was 
the main earner. Together, their net monthly income was £2,200 and total monthly outgoings 
amounted to £1,700, giving them around £500 monthly disposable income.
Mrs Y had one financial dependant. She told the financial adviser they had no plans or any 
other financial commitments. Mrs Y had £2,500 savings in deposit-based accounts and no 
previous investment experience or life cover. Mrs Ys husband had other more substantial 
assets and investments in his name.
I find Mrs Y was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest £100 each month. 
This was the conclusion our investigator reached also and as Mrs Y hasnt disagreed with 
what he said, I dont think I need to say more about this. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the investment fitted Mrs Ys risk approach. Mrs Y 
needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended investment 
reflected her attitude to risk. 
The financial adviser has said that Mrs Y was happy with the risks she had to take at the 
time. On the fact find, a tick box has been completed to show that Mrs Ys attitude to 
investment risk fell under 2  on a scale where 1 was Cautious, 2 and 3 spanned 
balanced and 4 was speculative. 
I've also thought carefully about what Mrs Ys investment objectives were in 1997. The 
adviser recorded in the fact find that it was Mrs Ys No 1 priority to build up capital 
through savings and that she was looking to accumulate tax free capital in ten years 
time.
It doesnt look like Mrs Y wanted or needed to have any income from her investment  she 
told the financial adviser she had specific plans for the money in ten years time and wanted 
to maximise the potential for capital growth. I think Mrs Y was happy to invest by setting 
aside a small sum each month to fund regular payments in order to grow her money over 
time. Given this objective, I think it probably was reasonable to recommend a risk-based 
investment to Mrs Y. This offered the possibility of earning a greater return than she might 
have expected to receive on funds kept in a deposit based savings account.  
But Im not persuaded that I have seen enough to fairly say that the MIP, which was 
described as offering a balanced investment portfolio  reasonably reflected a level of 
risk that matched Mrs Ys attitude to risk. Zurich cant show me how it assessed Mrs Ys 
attitude to risk or explained risk to her. Bearing in mind the best available information I have 
about the likely make up of the MIP in January 1998, I think it would have exposed Mrs Y to 
more risk than she wanted to take.
I say this because the adviser identified Mrs Ys risk approach at the cautious end of 
balanced. So I think its likely risk was discussed in some detail and theres nothing to show 
that Mrs Y raised objection about this risk rating at the time, which Id have expected her to 
have done if she disagreed.
But I have no reason to think that Mrs Y understood that investing in a fund that looks like it 
probably would have comprised 75% investment in equities, including overseas shares in its 
asset allocation, meant she should be prepared to expect a degree of volatility or that she 
was comfortable risking her money this way. Zurich hasnt shown me that it explained that 
lower risk investments could still have offered Mrs Y potential for growth but at less risk to 
her capital. 
On balance, based on what I've seen and been told, I cant fairly make a finding that 
investing in the MIP was a risk Mrs Y was willing to take with her money. In terms of risk, 
taking into account her limited investment experience and the indications that she leant 
towards the more conservative/less speculative end of Zurichs risk scale, I think a more 
cautious investment strategy wouldve been suitable for Mrs Y. So I am not satisfied that the 
recommendation was suitable for her. This means Zurich needs to take steps to put things 
right.
So far as the life cover is concerned, given that I have found the MIP was unsuitable for 
Mrs Y, it follows that she shouldnt have been sold the life cover as part of the overall 
investment strategy. I have also noted in the fact find that the financial adviser recorded that 
Mrs Y was not happy with life cover or protection plan and needs a savings plan for the 
time being only for £100 per month  This leads me to conclude that its unlikely that Mrs Y 
would have chosen to take out life cover on a stand-alone basis had it not been linked to the 
MIP. So she has lost out in money terms as she paid for the life cover and received no 
financial benefit. 
For all these reasons, I am upholding this complaint.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs Y told me she had nothing further to add.
Zurich mainly said that:
the MIP had to have life cover included to allow the funds to be paid tax free after 
the term of 10 years so if Mrs Y didnt require life cover then it proposed that tax at 
20% should be deducted from the funds, and 
that there were other lower risk funds which Mrs Y could have chosen to invest into 
and Mrs Y chose the funds within her plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the main points which have a bearing 
on the outcome. Ive explained why I didnt find that Zurich provided enough information to 
Mrs Y to enable her to make an informed decision on risk. For this reason, the MIP was 
unsuitable and this is why I am upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that Zurich takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs Y 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mrs Y would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs Ys circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To compensate Mrs Y fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Y's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
If Mrs Y paid separately for the life cover, Zurich should ensure she is compensated 
for this extra cost by refunding the premiums paid plus 8% simple per year from the 
date the premiums were paid to the date of settlement.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Maximum 
Investment 
MIPSurrendered Date of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the
date of 
settlementFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; 
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bonds
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
I have found that Mrs Y most likely wanted capital growth with a small risk to her 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs Y's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs Y into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs Y would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs Y could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as 
Allied Dunbar Assurance plc to pay compensation to Mrs Y as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman