DRN-4463403
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as V, is unhappy with several aspects of the service it
received from Starling Bank Limited surrounding its Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Vs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr D.
What happened
Mr D applied to Starling for a BBL on Vs behalf. The application was successful, and V
received the loan founds shortly thereafter. However, several months later, Starling
defaulted Vs BBL as they felt that V had never been eligible to receive it. Mr D wasnt happy
about this, and he also wasnt happy that Starling had used money that had been present in
Vs business current account to reduce the balance outstanding on the BBL. So, he raised a
complaint on Vs behalf.
Starling responded to Mr D and explained that theyd seen that V had filed dormant company
accounts which meant that it hadnt met the trading eligibility requirements for the BBL
scheme. Because of this, Starling didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by defaulting the
account on that basis, or by using the money that had been present in Vs business current
account to reduce the outstanding BBL balance. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Starlings
response, so he referred Vs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Starling had acted
unfairly by managing the situation as they had and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 October 2023 as follows:
The eligibility criteria for the BBL scheme included that an applicant business had to have
been trading on 1 March 2020. And, by Mr Ds own admission, V wasnt actively trading on
that date and so didnt meet the scheme eligibility criteria.
Because of the unique circumstances that led to the formation of the BBL scheme by the UK
Government  specifically, the global emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic  the UK
Government asked lenders such as Starling to process received applications quickly, so that
BBL money could be provided to eligible applicant businesses without unnecessary delay.
Because of this, lenders such as Starling werent expected to check or verify the information
provided by businesses at that point of application. Rather, it was the responsibility of the
business to have understood the eligibility criteria for the scheme and to have confirmed to
the lender it was applying to that it met those eligibility criteria at the point of application.
In this instance, Mr D stated on Vs BBL application to Starling that V was trading at the time
of the application and had annual turnover of between £750,000 to £1,000,000. But this
wasnt the case, and as explained above, the truth of the matter was that V wasnt actively
trading on 1 March 2020 and had zero turnover and so wasnt eligible to receive the BBL
that Mr D applied for on its behalf.
Mr D notes that businesses who hadnt yet traded could use projected turnover as per the
BBL scheme rules. But the facility to use projected turnover was only available for
businesses who were incorporated after 2019. And because V was incorporated in 2015, it
didnt meet the criteria as per the BBL scheme rules for projected turnover to be used.
Mr D argues that the BBL application and associated eligibility criteria information wasnt
clear. But I dont agree, and I feel that the accountability for Mr D making an illegitimate
application for a BBL for V rests with Mr D.
As such, I dont feel that Starling have acted unfairly by defaulting Vs BBL on the basis that
it was applied for illegitimately as they have. This is because, ultimately, V wasnt entitled to
receive the BBL it applied for.
I also dont feel that Starling did anything wrong by using the money present in Vs business
current account to reduce the BBL balance that remained outstanding. This process is
known as offsetting and is permitted by the terms of the BBL which Mr D accepted on Vs
behalf. And it also strikes me as being fair that a business that has received money it wasnt
entitled to receive should be compelled to reduce the balance of that lending as much as
possible via the process of offsetting once its realised that the lending is illegitimate.
Mr D also explains that when he made the BBL application to Starling on Vs behalf, that
Starling asked him to provide further information to them for their consideration before they
approved Vs application. And Mr D notes that in response, he provided Vs business plan to
Staring, which clearly demonstrated that V was starting up as a business and hadnt yet
traded  which Starling then considered before approving Vs BBL application.
Ive asked Starling about this point specifically, and Starling have confirmed that the did
receive Vs business plan and did consider it before approving the loan application. Ive also
reviewed Vs business plan and Im satisfied that its clear from that plan that V didnt meet
the criteria for it to eligible to receive a BBL.
While this doesnt absolve Mr D of his responsibility as Vs director to have understood the
eligibility criteria of the BBL, I do feel that Starling missed an opportunity that it reasonably
should have taken to have corrected any misunderstanding that Mr D may have had about
the eligibility criteria of the BBL scheme and to have not approved the BBL application
submitted by V. And I feel that V has incurred a degree of trouble and inconvenience that it
reasonably shouldnt have incurred here, because of Starlings failure to act on the
information theyve confirmed that they received and considered.
Because of this, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Vs favour and instructing
Starling to make a payment of £200 to V as compensation for the inconvenience and trouble
its unfairly incurred.
However, I also confirm that my provisional upholding of this complaint on this limited basis
doesnt affect my position on the other aspects of Vs complaint that Ive discussed above.
These include that I continue to feel that Starling didnt act unfairly by defaulting Vs BBL for
the reason it did or by using money present in Vs business current account to offset the
balance outstanding on the defaulted BBL. And I can confirm that the only provisional
instruction that I make to Starling is that they must pay £200 compensation to V, asexplained above.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision and reiterated that he feels that the onus was on 
Starling to have checked the eligibility of his BBL application, especially following the 
submission of his business plan. However, I continue to disagree, and as explained in my 
provisional decision letter, Im satisfied that the terms of the BBL scheme included that it was 
the applicants responsibility to have ensured that they were eligible to receive the loan they 
were applying for. Indeed, I feel that this is the key point of this complaint: V wasnt eligible to 
receive a BBL, and it was Mr Ds responsibility to have understood that. 
Mr D also feels that it wasnt the case that he declared Vs annual turnover as being 
£750,000 to £1,000,000, and that Starling have made a mistake in this regard that casts him 
in a bad light. But the information provided by Starling shows that this was the turnover 
figure they assessed on the BBL application. And even if Mr D did declare a lower turnover 
amount for V that this, the truth remains that D had zero turnover at that time, such that any 
declaration of turnover for V was incorrect.
Mr D has also asked me to reconsider instructing Starling to reinstate his bank account and 
hes as explained that he doesnt feel that the £200 compensation I provisionally instructed 
provides fair compensation for the stress and anxiety that hes incurred here.
But I can only reiterate what I explained in my provisional decision letter, which is that, 
ultimately, I feel that it is Mr D himself who is the primary cause of the situation here, 
because he applied for a BBL that V werent eligible for and because he included incorrect 
information in Vs BBL application. And because of this, as explained, Im satisfied that 
Starlings actions in terminating the BBL and offsetting the BBL balance with money held in 
Vs business current account was fair.
And while I will be instructing Starling to make a payment of £200 to V, this is instructed as 
compensation solely for Starling missing the opportunity to recognise that Vs application 
was invalid sooner that it did. And for that single, isolated event, I continue to feel that £200 
is a fair amount.
Finally, as explained in my provisional decision letter, my instructing this compensation 
doesnt in any way affect my position that Mr D should fairly be considered responsible for 
how events unfolded here because he provided inaccurate information on Vs BBL 
application and obtained a BBL for V that V wasnt eligible to receive. And so, if Mr D has 
incurred anxiety and worry because of what happened here, I feel that these are largely the 
consequences of his own mis-actions, and so not something that Starling should fairly be 
asked to compensate him for.
All of which means that my position on this complaint remains the same as described in my 
provisional decision letter. And I therefore confirm that my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint on the limited basis as described in my provisional decision letter accordingly.
Putting things right
Starling must make a payment of £200 to V.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited on the basis 
explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman