DRN-3697945
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Paratus AMC Limited (trading as Foundation Home Loans) 
(FHL) made an entry about them on the CIFAS database in connection with a joint 
mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage with FHL in November 2021. FHL declined the 
application in September 2021 and left markers on the CIFAS database. The CIFAS 
database is a cross-industry fraud prevention database which allows financial services 
providers to share relevant information, subject to safeguards.
FHL said it hadnt done anything wrong, and that it wasnt prepared to remove the markers. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He said FHL applied the marker because it wasnt 
able to verify the income Mr A had declared in his mortgage application.
In the application Mr A said he worked for a limited company (E) that Mrs A is a director of. 
The application shows that Mr A earned an annual basic income of £46,212.
Our investigator said that Mr A had provided FHL with payslips and bank statements (for an 
account Mr A holds jointly with Mrs A) in connection with the mortgage application. Mr As 
payslips showed that he earned £785.92 in each of May, June and July 2021. However that 
didnt match the entries on the relevant bank statements. Mrs A said that was because E 
paid £1,200 into their joint account in May 2021. That covered Mr As salary and some 
dividends she says she was owed. E paid the same amount into their joint account in July 
2021. Again Mrs A said that some of it was Mr As wages and some of it was dividends she 
was owed. Mrs A says £3,000 was paid into their account in July 2021. She said that was a 
combination of her wage, Mr As wage, and some dividends she was owed. 
Our investigator considered this information and the information FHL provided us. He said 
there were discrepancies in the information FHL received so he couldnt see that Mr A had 
received the income he declared on the application. So he thought FHL had reasonable 
grounds to suspect it had received false information in support of a mortgage application. In 
the circumstances he didnt think that FHL had made a mistake when it recorded the 
information on the CIFAS database, so he didnt recommend that RBS removed the 
markers.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. Mrs A says that in the months before 
and after they applied for the mortgage with FHL in November 2021 they applied for a 
mortgage with a number of other lenders. All the mortgages were declined, and various 
markers were applied to cross-industry fraud prevention databases. Mr and Mrs A have 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the markers recorded in connection 
with all those mortgage applications.
Mrs A says the same financial information was provided to all the financial businesses. 
However, another of our investigators upheld their complaints in relation to the markers 
recorded by two of the lenders. In those complaints the investigator said that while he 
thought the relevant businesses had reasonable grounds to suspect that theyd received 
false information in support of a mortgage application, Mr and Mrs A had gone on to provide 
evidence to counter any inconsistencies in their income. So he thought that the markers 
should be removed and that they were compensated for what happened. However, in cases 
considered more recently  including this one  a different outcome had been reached. 
Mr and Mrs A thought that the investigator in this case should reach a similar conclusion to 
the one reached complaints where the investigator thought the markers should be removed. 
Mrs A has also said:
since Mr As income increased in August 2021 he continued to earn what was 
declared and his income increased again when he changed jobs in March 2022. So 
Mrs A says there is no on-going risk of potential fraud. Mrs A thinks the markers 
should be removed in line with the reduction of potential threat.  
she doesnt think FHL had enough evidence to apply the markers. She says she 
contacted Action Fraud and the police and was told that they didnt think there was 
enough evidence to prove a crime had been committed or even that this case could 
be confidently reported to the police.
Mrs A has also told us about the negative impact of the markers on her and Mr A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs A applied for the mortgage in 2021 FHL considered the information and 
evidence it received in connection with mortgage application and carried out underwriting 
checks to try to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether it wanted to 
lend. I think its worth saying here that there was no obligation on FHL to lend money to Mr 
and Mrs A. It wasnt obliged to give reasons for refusing to do so either. 
The standard of proof for putting a marker on the CIFAS database is that there must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that FHL could confidently report the 
matter to the police or other authorities (whether or not they have actually done so). 
The standard required is therefore one of reasonable suspicion, not proof. But there must be 
evidence of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why FHL had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
application. The payments E made into Mr and Mrs As joint bank account dont match the 
information E disclosed in the mortgage application about Mr As salary. Mrs A has said that 
Mr As salary was paid into the joint bank account along with dividends she was owed from 
E. I think thats an unusual way for a company to pay an employees salary. Im conscious 
that it would have been very difficult for FHL to verify the information Mr and Mrs A had told 
them from the information they provided.In the circumstances I would expect FHL to carry out a further investigation into Mr and Mrs 
As mortgage application. Having considered the information theyd provided us with, I think 
FHL did that before deciding to apply the marker to CIFAS. I can see that they tried to verify 
the information Mr and Mrs A had provided with a relevant third party but discrepancies were 
found.
Mrs A has said that she doesnt think FHL had enough evidence to apply the markers. She 
says she contacted Action Fraud and the police and was told that they didnt think there was 
enough evidence to prove a crime had been committed or even that this case could be 
confidently reported to the police.
I appreciate what Mrs A has told us, but its not clear what Mrs A said exactly, or whether 
those bodies were aware of all the evidence that Ive been provided with when they said 
what Mrs A says they did. 
My role is to consider this complaint on the basis of all the information available to me, to 
decide whether it was reasonable for FHL to conclude that the standard for making a report 
was met.
Having considered all the information available to FHL, Im not persuaded that FHL acted 
unfairly when it recorded the CIFAS marker.
The next question I need to consider is whether FHL should remove the markers now. Mrs A 
thinks they should be removed. She says thats because she and Mr A didnt commit fraud, 
and because the investigator that considered two of her other complaints said the relevant 
lenders should remove the markers theyd applied and compensate Mr and Mrs A because 
he thought that theyd provided him with evidence to counter any inconsistencies about their 
income in the relevant mortgage applications. Mrs A says the same information was 
provided to all the relevant lenders, so the markers FHL applied should be removed too.
I think its worth saying here that Im not bound by the conclusion the investigator reached in 
those complaints. However, Ive considered those complaints, as well as all of Mr and Mrs 
As other complaints against the other lenders Ive referred to in this decision. I have a wide 
investigative remit. So my role is to take all the available evidence into account when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in this complaint. And I think its important to note that 
since those complaints were considered by the investigator, more information and context  
including from the other complaints that have been brought  has become available.  
Mr As income increased substantially in August 2021. Mrs A has told us thats because he 
started working full time with E in August 2021 after working part time before this. She says 
Mr A continued to earn what was declared in the mortgage application and that Mr As 
income increased again when he changed jobs in March 2022. 
Ive considered the information Mr and Mrs A have provided about Mr As income in this 
complaint. That shows that Mr A worked for E until December 2021. Ive considered that 
information alongside the information Mr and Mrs A provided in connection with their other 
complaints and the investigations the relevant lenders carried out in those complaints. Im 
conscious that when the other lenders checked the information provided to them 
discrepancies were found. And Ive also noted inconsistencies between the information Mr 
and Mrs A gave to the different lenders. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require FHL to remove the markers. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs A have told us that the impact of the markers on them and 
their strength of feeling about this matter. However, I dont think FHL acted unreasonably in 
recording entries on the CIFAS database. Nor do I think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require FHL to remove the markers now or to compensate Mr and Mrs A for what 
happened.
I recognise that this decision is likely be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A. But based on what 
Ive seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require FHL to do anything more to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman