DRN-3248939
The complaint
Ms L complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a personal possessions claim she 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L held an annual travel insurance policy which was underwritten by AWP. 
In August 2020, Ms L was abroad in a country Ill call F. She was travelling by train along 
with her husband, who she says was seated next to her. She had a laptop with her. As there 
was no overhead storage compartment and the luggage rack was at the other end of the 
carriage, she put the laptop in a bag and placed it under her seat. Ms L says the bag was 
between her legs. She fell asleep during the journey and later found that the bag had been 
stolen. So she made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the laptop.
AWP ultimately turned down the claim because it said Ms L hadnt taken reasonable care of 
her laptop. So it said the claim was specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Ms L was unhappy with AWPs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Ms L had acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances and he also didnt think Ms L had left the items 
unattended. So he recommended that AWP should pay the claim, together with interest.
AWP disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Ms Ls claim and Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Ms Ls policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether AWP treated 
her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Ms Ls 
contract with AWP. Section 3 of the policy is called Personal Possessions and says:
What you are covered for
1. We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the value or cost of 
repair of any of your own personal possessions (not hired, loaned or entrusted to 
you) which are lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed during your trip (after making 
allowance for wear and tear and depreciation).
It's clear AWP does provide cover for a policyholders stolen personal possessions. And 
having checked AWPs definition of personal possessions, Im satisfied Ms Ls laptop falls 
within the scope of personal possessions cover. Ms L has provided a police report which 
provides details of the laptops loss. So I think Ms L has shown her loss was caused by a 
listed, insured event the policy covers.
The personal possessions section of the policy also sets out a list of events AWP specifically 
excludes from cover. Ive set out two of these exclusions which AWP considers apply to the 
circumstances of the claim. 
What you are not covered for
2. you not exercising reasonable care for the safety and supervision of your personal 
possessions;
3. loss, destruction, damage or theft of any items left unattended in a public place, or a 
place to which members of the general public have access.
Its for AWP to demonstrate, on balance, that an exclusion applies to the circumstances of a 
claim which means that the claim shouldnt be paid. So Ive carefully considered all of the 
evidence to decide whether I think AWP has shown its fairly relied on an exclusion to 
decline Ms Ls claim.
In order for AWP to fairly conclude that Ms L failed to take reasonable care of her laptop and 
bag, it would need to show that she was aware of a risk and had courted it  in other words, 
that she acted recklessly. 
Ive looked closely at all of the evidence. Ms L has provided a clear and consistent 
recollection of events, which correlates with the information she gave AWP on its claim form. 
Briefly, she says that there were no overhead storage compartments and that the luggage 
rack was at the other end of the carriage and couldnt be seen. On that basis, she decided to 
store the laptop and bag under her seat, between her legs. The police report also says that 
the laptop was in a bag under the seat on a train. In my view, the evidence Ms L has 
provided is plausible and persuasive. And I also think that by placing the bag under the seat 
and between her legs, Ms L took reasonable steps to try and protect her items and to keep 
them out of sight. It seems to me that rather than acting recklessly, Ms L tried to mitigate the 
chance of a loss or theft occurring. 
As such then, I dont think AWP has shown, on balance, that Ms L failed to exercise 
reasonable care of her personal possessions. And so I dont think its fair for AWP to rely on 
this exclusion to turn down the claim.
Ive next turned to consider whether Ms L left her items unattended. AWP has defined what it 
means by unattended. The policy says:
Unattended: When you cannot see and are not close enough to your property to prevent 
unauthorised interference or theft of your property unless left in a safety-deposit facility.
It seems to me that Ms Ls items were kept as close to her as possible, given the 
circumstances. She was close to her bag during the journey, as was her husband. While I 
accept she couldnt see the bag while she was asleep, I dont think I could fairly say that the 
policy requires a policyholder to look directly at their items at all times. And its fairly common 
for people travelling by rail to fall asleep during a journey, even if briefly. In Ms Ls case, she 
says she was in the early stages of pregnancy. In my view, even if Ms L was asleep, I dont 
think this negates the fact that the bag was kept in close proximity to her during the journey. Id add too that theres no evidence to suggest when the bag was taken  it couldve 
happened while Ms L was awake or asleep. 
On this basis then, I dont think AWP has shown its entitled to rely on this exclusion clause 
either to turn down Ms Ls claim. I dont think its treated Ms L fairly and I dont think it acted 
reasonably when it turned down her claim.
Overall, Im satisfied Ms L has shown she has a valid claim on her policy and has provided 
proof of both purchase and the loss. So I find that AWP must now settle the claim in line with 
the applicable policy limits.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to settle Ms Ls personal possessions claim, in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions and any applicable limits. AWP must add interest to the 
settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms L how much its taken off. It should also give Ms L a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman