DRN-2241747
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt amend adverse information on his credit 
file as they had said they would.  
What happened
Mr B made a request to downgrade his Barclays bank account in September 2019 because 
he wasnt happy with the level of fees he was paying on his package account. Barclays 
didnt action this request in a timely manner, which meant that Mr Bs bank account went 
overdrawn, incurred fees, and resulted in adverse information being recorded on Mr Bs 
credit file.
Mr B made a complaint to Barclays about this in February 2020. Barclays agreed that the 
level of service which theyd provided could have been better and they agreed to downgrade 
the account and make a reimbursement so that the account wasnt overdrawn, as well as 
pay a £50 payment to Mr B as a gesture of goodwill and remove the adverse information 
from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B received the reimbursement and good will payment that Barclays had promised, but 
when he checked his credit file he noticed that they hadnt removed the adverse information 
as they said they would. So Mr B made another complaint to Barclays about this. 
Barclays responded to Mr B in April 2020. They said that because their records showed that 
Mr B hadnt accessed his bank account since September 2019 until February 2020 (when he 
made his initial complaint), and because the account first went overdrawn in September 
2019, Barclays felt that the adverse information recorded on his credit file was an accurate 
representation of how Mr B had managed that account. So, they didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this response and referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at this case. They felt that because Mr B had made the request to 
downgrade the bank account in September it was understandable why Mr B hadnt kept a 
closer eye on that account. Our investigator also noted that Barclays initially agreed to 
amend the adverse credit file information, only to have later changed their mind. So, our 
investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Barclays remove the adverse 
information from Mr Bs credit file.
Barclays accepted the recommendation of our investigator, but Mr B didnt feel that this 
recommendation went far enough and suggested that a further award of compensation from 
Barclays to himself was merited. Our investigator felt that recommendation he had made 
was a fair one, and so the matter was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Ill confirm that the scope of my decision in this instance is focussed on whether it 
is reasonable to ask Barclays to make an additional award of compensation above and 
beyond that which they have already offered. It is not disputed at this point that Barclays 
should amend the adverse credit information recorded on Mr Bs credit file, and as I am also 
in agreement with this recommendation, I will not consider it further.
I should draw the attention of all parties to the fact that the remit of this service is to help 
ensure that an outcome to a dispute is reached that is fair and reasonable considering all the 
circumstances of the complaint at hand. It is not the case that this service exists to punish or 
fine businesses above and beyond the remit of achieving a fair resolution.
With this in mind, Barclays initial response to Mr B  that they make a reimbursement to Mr 
B to bring his account out of being overdrawn; that they make a compensation payment of 
£50 as a good will gesture; and that they remove the adverse credit information from Mr Bs 
credit file  does seem to me to be fair and reasonable in this instance.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration with Barclays at changing their decision to amend the 
credit file information as they had first suggested. But I can also understand Barclays own 
rationale for why they considered this, especially when it is understood that the reason the 
account went overdrawn was because of a recurring direct debit payment. In essence, 
Barclays position was that Mr B didnt sufficiently monitor the status of his bank account, and 
that in not doing so the account became overdrawn and should be reported as being so.
However, while it is the case that Mr B does have a responsibility to monitor the status of his 
accounts, I am in agreement with our investigator that there is a reasonable explanation as 
to why Mr B might not have done this in this instance, with one factor being that Mr B had 
made a request to Barclays to change the status of that bank account - which he had no 
reason to believe hadnt been actioned.
So, I think that a fair outcome has already been reached here. Mr B has received 
reimbursement and additional compensation from Barclays - the level of which I feel is 
appropriate for these circumstances - and Barclays have agreed to remove the adverse 
information from Mr Bs credit file as they originally suggested. 
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was hoping for, but I dont feel that any 
further offer of compensation is merited at this time, and so I wont be asking Barclays to 
take any additional action beyond that to which they have already agreed. 
Putting things right
If they have not done so already, Barclays Bank UK PLC should remove the adverse 
information recorded on Mr Bs credit file relating to the bank account in question.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
previously agreed and explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman