DRN-3898940
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain about Sainsburys Bank Plc and the service theyve received 
following the inception of their home insurance policy.
As Mr A has acted as the main representative during the complaint process, I will refer to 
any actions taken, and comments made, by either Mr A or Mrs A as Mr A throughout the 
decision for ease of reference.
What happened
On 6 April, Mr A spoke to Sainsburys in their role as an intermediary regarding a home 
insurance policy he wanted to take out. This policy was underwritten by a separate insurer, 
who Ill refer to as H.
On the first call with Sainsburys, Mr A made them aware he had on open claim ongoing with 
his previous home insurance provider. And as it was open, it hadnt been confirmed as non-
fault. Sainsburys explained that, because of this, they would need to process the quote with 
6 years no claims discount (NCD) rather than 9, as it was standard industry process to 
reduce a customers NCD by 3 years per claim.
This increased the yearly policy premium by around £30. But Sainsburys confirmed that, if 
Mr A was able to obtain confirmation from his previous insurer that the claim hadnt impacted 
his NCD, hed be able to make a mid-term adjustment to recalculate the premium based on 
the 9-year NCD. Mr A accepted this and continued with the policy. 
But he was unhappy with the service he received from Sainsburys during this process. So, 
Mr A raised a complaint. Mr A was unhappy that Sainsburys wouldnt provide him with 
documentation that showed the additional amount hed had to pay; due to the reduced NCD 
hed had to declare. And he was unhappy with how long hed spent on the phone trying to 
arrange the policy. So, he wanted to be compensated for this.
Sainsburys responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the 
conversation length was necessary to ensure all the relevant information for the policy was 
obtained. And they explained they were unable to provide Mr A with evidence of what a 
quote with 9 years NCD would be, as they use real time pricing methods which meant the 
quote could differ by the time Mr A returned with evidence the 9 years NCD had been 
confirmed by his previous insurer. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr 
A remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it initially. They didnt think Sainsburys 
had done enough to ensure H were made aware that Mr As 9 years NCD had been 
confirmed. And they thought if Sainsburys had, Mr A wouldve received his premium refund 
sooner. So, they thought Sainsburys should pay Mr A £75 to recognise the inconvenience 
this caused, and the effort he put in to resolve the issue.
Sainsburys responded explaining they didnt think theyd been given an opportunity to 
respond to this aspect of Mr As complaint. But they provided their business file and 
explained Mr A hadnt made them aware the 9 years NCD had been confirmed by his 
previous insurer. So, they didnt think it was fair for our investigator to say they shouldve 
done more considering this.
Our investigator considered this information and having done so, changed their view. They 
explained they had listened to the initial sales calls, where they thought it was made clear to 
Mr A that he would need to make them aware of any change in his NCD when it had been 
confirmed. And our investigator didnt think they had evidence to show Mr A had done this. 
So, they didnt think Sainsburys need to provide Mr A with compensation on this occasion.
Mr A was unhappy with our investigators change of view. And he reiterated his belief that 
Sainsburys shouldve done more to assist him and that it shouldnt have been his 
responsibility to contact H, and that Sainsburys shouldve proactively checked the insurance 
database to see whether the NCD had been reinstated. So, Mr A maintained his belief he 
should be compensated for the upset hed been caused. As Mr A remained unhappy, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I dont dispute the claim 
on Mr As previous policy was made through no fault of his own. So, I can understand why 
Mr A felt it was unfair for him to lose 3 years NCD, and so, pay a higher premium price. And I 
can appreciate why Mr A wanted to ensure he received a refund for this additional premium, 
once the original 9 years NCD had been confirmed. Ive seen this 9 years NCD was 
confirmed, and H have refunded the additional premium Mr A paid. But I recognise this 
refund wasnt processed until our service became involved and so, I can understand why Mr 
A may look at the actions Sainsburys have taken and feel they are unreasonable.
But for me to say Sainsburys should compensate Mr A, I first need to be satisfied theyve 
done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied the information they gave, or the actions 
they took, at the time Mr A took out the policy were incorrect. Or, if I dont think they were, 
that Sainsburys failed to take reasonable action to ensure H were aware the 9 years had 
been reinstated mid-term. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and how.
Sainsburys were acting as an intermediary during this process, meaning they were 
responsible for arranging the insurance policy Mr A took out. But crucially, Sainsburys arent 
the underwriter of the policy, H are. And the policy premiums are set by the underwriters, not 
by the intermediaries. So, it was Hs decision to increase the premium due to the reduced 
NCD. And I dont think Sainsburys were able to control, or influence this, in any way. And it 
would also be Hs decision to offer a refund of any premiums when a mid-term adjustment 
such as an increase in NCD is made. As this complaint is about Sainsburys, I wont be 
focusing on the pricing itself although I acknowledge this isnt the crux of Mr As complaint.
I recognise Mr A feels as though Sainsburys shouldve done more to ensure H were made aware that his previous insurer had re-instated his full 9 years NCD. But for Sainsburys to 
make H aware of this, I think Mr A wouldve needed to make Sainsburys aware first, 
providing evidence such as the email he gave to our service. And I cant see that Mr A did.
Ive seen Sainsburys system notes, which show the contact they received regarding Mr As 
premium. And Ive seen no evidence to show Mr A contacted them to discuss the increase in 
NCD between the date he paid for the policy, to the date they were contacted by H 
explaining Mr A would need to be refunded. H contacted Sainsburys following evidence 
provided by our service, when considering the complaint Mr A brought to us.
So, I dont think I can reasonably say Sainsburys ought to have done anything more, when 
they werent aware Mr As previous insurer had confirmed the 9 years NCD had been 
confirmed and reinstated. While I appreciate Mr As belief Sainsburys shouldve sought this 
information proactively, this isnt something Id expect Sainsburys to do nor is that standard 
industry practice. As Mr A wanted to make a mid-term adjustment, I think the onus was on 
Mr A to contact Sainsburys to arrange this. And Ive been provided with no evidence to 
show this happened.
Ive also listened to the initial calls Mr A held with Sainsburys on 6 and 7 April, where this 
was discussed. And I think it was made reasonably clear to Mr A that, for the 9 years NCD to 
be added onto the policy, a mid-term adjustment would need to be made. So, I think Mr A 
shouldve been reasonably aware hed need to contact Sainsburys, acting as his 
intermediary, to ensure this adjustment was made.
Also within these calls, I think Sainsburys made it reasonably clear to Mr A that they were 
unable to guarantee the price of the premiums with 9 years NCD, as the prices quoted were 
live and had the ability to change. While I understand Mr As frustrations surrounding this, as 
the open claim with his previous insurer was no fault of his own, Im satisfied this was the 
correct information provided by Sainsburys. Its not uncommon for premium pricing to 
change daily, depending on market factor and an insurers appetite for risk at any given time. 
So, I wouldnt have expected Sainsburys to guarantee Mr A a premium price, when it was H 
that decided this price, not them.
So, while I do appreciate Mr A has needed to take time and effort to ensure his policy 
premium reflects his valid NCD at the time, I dont think this is because of anything 
Sainsburys have done wrong on this occasion. And because of this, I dont think Sainsburys 
need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs As complaint about 
Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman