DRN-2243226
The complaint
Miss W complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund two disputed transactions 
made from her account. 
What happened
On the 12 January 2020 Miss W explains that two payments of £400 and £460 were made 
from her Nationwide account to an unknown payee. Miss W advises she first noticed these 
payments when she logged on to her online banking the next day at which point she 
immediately notified the bank. 
Nationwide looked into Miss Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They concluded that Miss W 
most likely authorised the disputed transactions because:
The disputed transactions were authorised via Miss Ws Mobile application.
To access the mobile application theyd need access to Miss Ws card and her PIN 
number.
Touch ID was used to access the mobile application.
The same IP address was used for genuine mobile log ins. 
Miss W didnt accept Nationwides response so complained to our service. Miss Ws is 
represented by her mother. For ease of reference Ill refer to all comments as if theyre from 
Miss W. Shes also unhappy with the service provided by Nationwide.
 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They concluded 
that Miss W most likely authorised the disputed transactions. In summary they said:
The mobile app was accessed via biometrics specifically fingerprint.
The mobile app was only downloaded once.
The IP address was the same as previous genuine transactions.
Theres no explanation for how Miss Ws PIN was obtained
Miss Ws card is in her possession. 
Miss W didnt accept our investigators opinion, so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And Ill explain why 
below.
 
Generally, Nationwide can hold Miss W liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ws genuine online banking details 
were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable Nationwide to hold her liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss W consented to 
the transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that Miss W 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed access to 
Miss Ws online banking specifically her mobile application. Ive seen evidence that 
the mobile application was accessed using a biometric fingerprint. And theres no 
plausible explanation for how a fraudster gained access to Miss Ws mobile 
application this way.
Ive seen evidence that Miss Ws mobile application was only downloaded on one 
occasion  and therefore the disputed transactions could have only been carried out 
using Miss Ws mobile phone. 
A new payee was set up on the 11 January 2020. To set up a new payee the 
fraudster needed access to Miss Ws debit card and PIN. Miss W explained that her 
card was in her possession at the time of the disputed transactions, and shes not 
written down or told anyone her PIN. 
A card reader was also required to set up the new payee. Miss W informed our 
service shed lost her card reader two years prior to the alleged fraud. However, the 
online banking audit trail from Nationwide indicates that her card reader was used to 
set up a new payee the day before the disputed transactions. And Miss W hasnt 
disputed this payment. 
The IP address the transactions were carried out from matches those of genuine 
transactions carried out by Miss W. 
Miss Ws also explained that shes unhappy with the service shes received from Nationwide 
in particular they called her a liar. Unfortunately the bank havent been able to provide all of 
the phone calls they had with Miss W to our service. However, based on what I have seen 
Ive not seen any evidence the bank treated Miss W unfairly or unprofessionally. Therefore I 
wont be asking them to pay compensation. 
I realise this will disappoint Miss W but for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that 
its more likely than not Miss W authorised the disputed transactions. And if follows 
Nationwide can hold her liable for them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman