DRN-2956669
The complaint
Miss R complains that Oakam Ltd wouldnt lend to her. She said Oakam had lent to her 
previously and these loans were repaid. Miss R says she applied for more lending but 
Oakam didnt approve this lending. She says this is despite her financial situation improving.   
What happened
I understand Miss R was approved for a number of loans from Oakam before 2016. She has 
repaid these loans in full. 
Miss R applied for more lending in late 2016, 2017 and in 2021. All of these loan applications 
were declined by Oakam. Miss R has complained about these declined loans. 
Oakam has considered Miss Rs complaint and said that these subsequent loan applications 
did not meet its income and expenditure and policy requirements. It apologised for any 
inconvenience this mayve caused Miss R. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that it was reasonable for a business to 
set the criteria it had about the lending. And this is not normally something the Financial 
Ombudsman Service would comment on. He didnt think Oakam had acted incorrectly in 
respect of its lending decision or how it looked at Miss Rs complaint
Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She still doesnt think its fair that Oakam 
could accept her for a loan at an earlier point and then not accept her loan applications later 
on when she thinks her circumstances had improved. She would like Oakam to explain fully 
why this was. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As our adjudicator explained it is reasonable for a lending business to set the criteria it uses 
when it is deciding whether to lend. These decisions are part of its commercial process and 
it isnt appropriate for me to influence these criteria. 
Oakam has provided a brief explanation about why it didnt choose to lend. It and it says that 
this was due to Miss R not meeting its income and expenditure criteria. Again, its 
reasonable for Oakam to decline to lend or this reason. And I dont think the explanation it 
provided was unreasonable.
I appreciate that Miss R feels that Oakams lending criteria may have changed over time. 
And it may be that it has. But Oakam is entitled to decide on the criteria is sets for lending. 
And it doesnt have to explain why its policies and practices may have changed over time (if 
they have). So, I dont think that Oakam needs to provide any more detail than it has about 
why the lending was declined. 
And whilst Oakam hasnt approved additional lending to Miss R I dont think this has caused 
her a financial loss. So, its not clear to me what needs to be put right here. 
Given all of the above, I dont think Miss Rs complaint should succeed. 
I can see that Miss R feels very strongly about the issues she has complained about. And 
Im sure she wont agree with my decision. But, in any event, I hope she finds my 
explanation helpful and it doesnt cause her any distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman