DRN-2485479
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Platinum packaged 
bank account in 2017. Mr A pays a monthly fee for the account which provides several 
benefits in return.
What happened
Mr A opened a fee-free account with Lloyds in February 2014. This was changed to a 
student account in March 2014, a graduate account in August 2014, and finally to a Platinum 
packaged account in July 2017. The upgrade to the Platinum account was completed in one 
of Lloyds branches.
Mr A says that the only reason he took the Platinum account was because he was told he 
had to in order to maintain the maximum overdraft limit. Hes explained that this happened 
around the time that the interest-free overdraft provided by his graduate account came to an 
end.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the Platinum account to Mr A and 
didnt recommend that Lloyds should pay him any compensation. Mr A didnt agree so he 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr As complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr As complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Platinum account was mis-sold 
to him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr A was given a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank account.
Mr A has effectively said that he didnt have a choice about upgrading his account. I say this 
because Ive noted that Mr A says that if he hadnt upgraded, he wouldnt have been able to 
keep his large overdraft limit. 
I agree that if this had been the case, there could be some questions about whether Mr A 
was genuinely given a choice about upgrading his account. But having reviewed everything 
Mr A has said carefully, as well as the notes and evidence Lloyds has provided, Im not 
persuaded thats the case. 
Lloyds has provided interview summaries from the times Mr As account was changed. I note 
that he was offered a fee-free Classic account, but instead he opted to take the Platinum 
account. At this point its important to note that the Classic account could still have had an 
overdraft  subject to approval  but interest wouldve been payable on all but the first £25 of 
any outstanding balance. The interest-free amount provided by the Platinum account was 
£300.
 
I note from Lloyds record that on the same day as upgrading to the Platinum account, Mr 
As overdraft was reduced from £2000 to £300. Bearing in mind that Mr A says he upgraded 
his account to maintain the maximum overdraft limit, the events that took place dont align 
with what Mr A says. I dont doubt that what Mr As version of events is his honest 
recollection, but thinking about what hes said alongside the evidence Ive seen, I havent 
concluded that Lloyds likely misled him into believing he had to upgrade to keep his 
overdraft.
So having considered everything here, Im satisfied that Mr A was aware that he had a 
choice about taking the Platinum account. And I dont think he took it because he was given 
no other option but to do so, or because he was given false information.
I havent seen enough to make me think Lloyds recommended the Platinum account to Mr A. 
So whilst it didnt have to check if the account was suitable for him, it had to give him the key 
information about it for him to decide for himself whether he wanted it.
I know that Mr A has said he only used the accounts benefits because he was paying for 
them, and I accept what hes said here. But like our adjudicator, I also think that Mr A mayve 
upgraded because he was interested in some of the benefits  even though he knew he 
didnt have to upgrade.
 
I can see from the records Lloyds has provided that Mr A registered his mobile phone 
against the accounts insurance policy shortly after upgrading. I also note from Mr As 
account transactions that it appears Mr A was paying for mobile phone insurance in the 
months before he upgraded. And after upgrading, Mr A used the Platinum accounts car 
breakdown service four times. 
I cant see any reason Mr A couldnt have used the accounts other benefits too, such as the 
travel insurance cover, which the interview notes suggest he was interested in. I know Mr A 
didnt need to claim on that policy, but I think he most likely knew about the policy that was 
included with the Platinum account, and could have used it instead of paying for a separate 
policy if hed wanted or needed to.
I fully understand that Mr A may not have used all the benefits of the Platinum account. And 
with hindsight, he might not feel like its been good value for money to him. But that in itself 
doesnt mean Lloyds mis-sold the account to him, and it doesnt mean Lloyds should 
automatically uphold his complaint.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr A everything it should have about the Platinum account. 
But I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr A wouldnt still have taken the account, 
even if Lloyds had told him more about it. 
I want to reassure Mr A that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Platinum account to him. So I dont think it owes him any money.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman