DRN-2185834
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited (Acromas) when he contacted it under the home emergency section of his insurance 
policy to report a leak.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the view given by our investigator and Ill explain why.
As our investigator advised Mr H, awards of compensation that this service can make arent 
intended to fine or punish a business. We can award fair compensation that's a 
proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) has had on its 
customer. 
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on its customer. For us to 
award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's actions has 
been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience and 
upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. A delay in getting through to the right person within 
an organisation on the phone, or a delay in a tradesman arriving, are just such examples. 
We're unlikely to tell a business to pay compensation in these circumstances unless what 
the business did or failed to do had a significant impact on a particular customer.
Acromas has acknowledged that its service to Mr H wasnt satisfactory and offered £10 for 
the telephone delays that Mr H experienced. It has also agreed to pay Mr H a further £40 for 
the inconvenience caused to Mr H by the fact that its engineer didnt arrive within the stated 
appointment window. Mr Hs upset is understandable, but I dont consider that Acromass 
service in the respect is likely to have had such a significant or lasting impact upon him as to 
justify more compensation than Acromas has already agreed to pay. The engineer arrived 
two hours outside the stated window, so he was able to deal with the leak the same day. 
Whilst not wishing to dismiss the inconvenience caused to Mr H, I consider that 
compensation of £50 in total is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
 
Mr H has also complained about the delay in Acromass response to his complaint. His 
policy states that complaints will be responded to within eight weeks, but it took Acromas 
over three months to respond to his complaint. Unfortunately I cannot consider this particular 
complaint as complaint handling is not a regulated activity and therefore it falls outside the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Hs frustration, and am upholding Mr Hs 
complaint about the service he received from Acromas in response to his leak, Im not going 
to ask it to pay any more than the additional £40 compensation it has agreed to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to pay him a further £40 compensation unless it has already paid this sum 
to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman