DRN-1423261
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc changed its policy on the number of coin bags it will 
accept without notifying customers. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
TSB is free to decide how it operates including whether to limit the number of coin 
bags it will accept. Our service cant tell TSB how to operate or what services to offer 
customers. I cant tell TSB to accept cash bags above its 10 a day limit as its made a 
commercial decision not to. 
Whilst the terms and conditions are comprehensive, they dont cover every aspect of 
the relationship between a business and its customer. Here, the acceptance of coin 
bags isnt detailed under the account terms. TSB says there is no requirement to tell 
customers before it changes the way it operates. Whilst I understand Mr Ws 
frustration, I wouldnt expect a business to notify its customers about every change it 
makes to the way it operates. I appreciate coin bags are an important issue for Mr W 
but I havent seen anything to show hes been treated unfairly as a result of TSBs 
decision. 
Ive thought about whether the situation wouldve been different if TSB had provided 
notice of its intention to change its coin bag policy. Ultimately, Mr W would still have 
been in the same situation where by TSB will only accept 10 coin bags a day. When 
Mr W tried to deposit funds in branch he was notified of the new policy and told about 
deposit limits going forward. Im satisfied that he was made aware of the new policy 
at a reasonable time. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. 
Im satisfied TSB has dealt with this complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.Marco Manente
Ombudsman