DRN-2635934
The complaint
Miss D complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) is unfairly pursuing her for 
the costs of a third party claim following her car been involved in an uninsured incident.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well know to both parties and as such I have only 
summarised them below.
In February 2020 Miss D gave permission to her husband for to allow a friend of a friend 
(who I'll refer to as Mr A) to borrow her car while she was out of the country.
During the time that Mr A was responsible for the car it was involved in an accident, the 
driver and passengers of the car at the time of the accident ran away.
In early March 2020 the third party insurer contacted Calpe to register a claim on behalf of 
their insured. Calpe tried to contact Miss D but as she was out of the country it wasn't able to 
reach her. When she returned, she contacted Calpe to let it know that Mr A was responsible 
for the car at the time of the accident and that he had alternative insurance in place, the 
details of this were provided to Calpe. Miss D also told Calpe that she had reported her car 
stolen when it hadn't been returned by Mr A, the car was later recovered at an impound. 
When Calpe approached Mr A's insurer, it was told the insurer had no record of Mr A nor 
any insurance cover for Miss Ds car. Calpe tried to contact Miss D to resolve matters but 
was unable to reach her and so it had to settle the third party claim, as it was required to 
under the Road Traffic Act (1988) (RTA).
Calpe continued to try to make contact with Miss D, but when it was unable to do so it issued 
a notice of cancellation for non-cooperation, in line with its terms and conditions.
After a couple of weeks, Miss Ds husband contacted Calpe to ask about repairs for the 
damage on Miss D's car. Calpe advised that as the accident was not an insured event, 
under the policy, the damage to Miss D's car was not covered.
In early May 2020 Calpe wrote Miss D to advise her that the claim had been settled under 
the RTA and that she was now liable for the claim costs.
Mr A then contacted Calpe letting it know he took full responsibility for the accident, he said 
he would take liability for the amount due and his solicitor would be in contact in due course. 
Miss D didn't think it was fair for her to be pursued for the costs and suggested that the 
Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) should be approached for the settlement of the claim. Calpe 
explained the MIB only deal with claims where the driver is unidentifiable, and as that wasn't 
the case here as Mr A had accepted responsibility for the accident, this wasn't a claim the 
MIB would deal with.
In mid-June 2020, Calpe contacted Mr A to discuss the costs, but Mr A denied all knowledge 
of the incident. Following this, Miss D told Calpe that the car had actually been stolen from 
Mr A prior to the accident and so therefore the driver at the time of the accident was 
unknown. She then asked for Calpe to pass the claim to the MIB to deal with. 
Calpe said the claim still could not be dealt with by the MIB as it had already been settled, it 
was concerned that there had been no previous mention of the theft from Mr A until now and 
requested to see a copy of a Police report about the theft. Mr A subsequently made a Police 
report regarding the theft.
Miss D complained as she didnt believe that Calpe shouldve settled the third party claim or 
should pursue her for it. She also felt that the damage to her vehicle should be covered 
under the theft part of her policy. Calpe disagreed and so she brought her complaint to this 
service.
The investigator that looked into the complaint didnt uphold it in summary they said:
Calpe were informed throughout the claim that Mr A was responsible for the claim 
and no other insurance was in place, it was reasonable for it to settle the claim as the 
RTA insurer. 
As Mr A was now saying he had no knowledge of the incident and Calpe had not 
been able to recover its cost from him it was entitled to pursue Miss D for the costs.
Miss D didnt agreed and so the mater has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Having 
done so I have to tell Miss D that I will not be upholding her complaint, Ill explain.
My role here is not to determine what happened at the time of the accident but if Calpe acted 
fairly when settling the third party claim, instead of referring the claim to the MIB and if it is 
entitled to pursue Miss D for the costs associated with the claim.
Under the General Exceptions heading in Miss Ds policy documents it states:
1 The Company shall not be liable in respect of any claim arising while Your Car
is being used or driven:
(a)
(b)
(e) By any person not described on the Certificate of Motor Insurance and/or 
Schedule as entitled to drive or in charge of the car.
Its important when making a claim, under an insurance policy, to make sure that the insurer 
is provided with the full facts and details of the claim from the beginning. This wasnt the 
case in this claim as, from Calpes first contact, after the accident, with Miss D and throughout the claim, Miss D, her husband and Mr A all confirmed that Mr A was responsible 
for the accident. There was no mention of the car being stolen from Mr A until Calpe let Miss 
D know that she would be liable for the cost of the claim.
As Calpe were not aware of the alleged theft of the vehicle from Mr A I think it was entitled, 
at the time of settling the claim, to rely on the information it had been given as factual  that 
is that Mr A was the driver of the car at the time of the accident. Given this it would have no 
need to refer the matter to the MIB and was acting correctly when settling the claim under 
the RTA as it was obliged to. 
But for clarity Id like to point out here that even if the late change to the version of events is 
accepted as fact, as the claim had already been settled this isnt something the MIB would 
cover retrospectively. And so, there was nothing more Calpe could have done to unwind 
things once the claim had been settled.
The conditions of the policy also state:
 9. Recovery
If the Underwriters are required to pay a claim under Road Traffic law or the law of 
any country in which the policy operates the Underwriters reserve their right to 
recover from You and/or the person who incurred the liability any amount paid out 
which the Underwriters would not have been liable to pay had the law not existed.
It is not disputed that Mr A was responsible for the car while Miss D was out of the country, 
and I accept that Miss D loaned the car to him in good faith with the belief that he had 
alternative insurance in place to cover any liability that may have arose during that time. But 
unfortunately, this wasnt the case and as such Calpe were unable to redirect the claim. So, 
its entitled to seek to recover the costs it has incurred. 
As Mr A is now denying any knowledge of the accident and is not engaging with Calpe in 
respect of the costs. As both Mr A and Miss D are now claiming that Mr A was not the driver, 
and so not the person who incurred the liability as described in the condition above. I think 
its reasonable for Calpe to pursue Miss D, as the policy holder, for the costs associated with 
the claim. Calpe should now make a suitable repayment arrangement with Miss D for the 
costs.
As the damage to Miss Ds car was as a result of an uninsured accident, there is no 
provision under the policy for it to be covered and as such she D will not be able to claim for 
it.
I know Miss D will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Calpe can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman