DRN-1851068
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that mistakes made by Tesco Personal Finance PLC in working out how 
much she owed it, led to her selling her car, and caused her a significant amount of stress, 
including two weeks off work.
What happened
Miss C had previously set up a payment plan with Tesco, allowing her to make reduced 
payments onto her credit card while her income was low. This plan failed, but Miss C wasnt 
told about that when she contacted Tesco. That has been the subject of a separate 
complaint, so I wont discuss that further here. 
On 2 July, Miss C set up a second plan. This plan was intended to pay off arrears on her 
card, so it would always have been for much more money. But Miss C said Tesco made 
mistakes in working out the plan, which left her paying much more than she needed to. She 
told us this had a significant impact on her, leading to two weeks off work with stress. And 
shed sold her car, which had sentimental value. Tesco had paid £150 in compensation for 
its mistakes, but she said shed lost about £700 during the time she was off work, so she 
wanted Tesco to pay £550 more. 
Tesco said it made a mistake when it set up Miss Cs payment plan. It set up a plan for 
£319.77 for five months, but this amount was wrong, she was paying about £50 more per 
month than she needed to, so her arrears were cleared in three months rather than five. And 
when she rang to make a final payment in October, she was given the wrong amount for her 
minimum payments going forward. Tesco didnt think its call handlers had been rude or 
unprofessional, but it was sorry for the poor service shed received. It sent her £150 to make 
up for that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He went through in detail the 
conversations Miss C had with Tesco, to explain why he reached that view. He thought 
Tesco had made a mistake about the amount that Miss Cs plan should be set for. But he 
noted Tesco offered Miss C a range of options, including a payment plan, defaulting her 
debt, or paying the debt with money from family members. Miss C agreed to the plan, and 
didnt give Tesco any indication she would struggle with it. So our investigator thought the 
serious consequences of making this monthly payment which Miss C described, werent 
Tescos fault. 
Miss C didnt agree. She said Tesco had misinformed her on more than one occasion. It had 
left her confused and worried at each step of communication with her. She thought Tescos 
payment was just refunding her overpayments and not offering any goodwill to repair its 
mistake. And she said the mistake on the October call with Tesco, when she was told the 
wrong amount for minimum payments going forward, didnt seem to have been addressed. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Miss C had agreed the repayments on her 
plan with Tesco on 2 July. So Tesco wouldnt have known that this plan would cause Miss C such hardship. He said there had been a mistake, and it wasnt Miss Cs fault. But he didnt 
think Tesco was responsible for the serious impact Miss C said this had on her. And Tesco 
had paid compensation, the money she got wasnt a refund. He also said Tesco paid part of 
her compensation for the mistaken information she was given on the phone in October, 
about future repayments. So he didnt think hed left anything out. 
Miss C said Tesco had made her think she owed more than she did. So she was counting 
every penny, turning down social engagements because she couldnt afford them. She knew 
shed told Tesco she could afford the plan, but she hadnt realised the impact it would have. 
She didnt think she was given an arrears figure clearly on 2 July, and the option to pay this 
off in a lump sum wasnt discussed in detail. She said shed genuinely taken two weeks off 
sick with depression caused by financial issues, and the only arrears were with Tesco. She 
said shed since changed jobs to enable her to pay this debt off faster. 
Miss C wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to partially 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Miss C had entered into a payment arrangement with Tesco to make much smaller 
repayments, while she was studying. Unfortunately, this plan was broken when she 
didnt make repayments. Our service has already dealt with a complaint from Miss C 
that she wasnt told about this when she contacted Tesco in June. So I wont comment 
on that further here.
In July, she needed to set up a new plan. By this time, her studies had paid off, and 
shed secured a new job. She spoke to Tesco twice on 2 July. On the first call, a range 
of options were discussed for her, and she agreed to talk to Tesco again later that day. 
She was intending to explore options to increase her income, before she decided what 
to do.
Much of the second call was set up with a complaint about the call she had with Tesco 
in June. But she also set up a payment plan on this call, to run for five months, at a 
monthly payment of £319.77. I dont think this call handler was rude or unprofessional 
to Miss C. But we now know her calculations were wrong.
Miss C found out in October that the payment plan had been set for more than she 
actually needed to pay, although the information on that call also seemed to be wrong 
as her minimum payment going forward was significantly underestimated. Tesco says 
Miss Cs plan was about £50 per month more than it needed to be. Miss C told us 
about the hardship this caused, and said she wants Tesco to compensate her for that. 
Miss C said she didnt realise in July that she only owed around £600 in arrears. She 
says if shed been given better advice then she couldve paid that, and avoided a plan 
altogether. But I understand that she would also have needed to pay her minimum 
monthly payment in July, in addition to this amount. Its not clear to me that Miss C 
would have been able to pay both the arrears on her card and the minimum payment 
in one month. Particularly as shes told us she had much less spare money each 
month than she had thought on this call. So I think Miss C would always have been 
likely to enter into a plan anyway on this call. Tesco accepted that it made a mistake about the amount of Miss Cs plan. I have to 
bear in mind that, as our investigator said, Miss C did agree to that amount. She said 
she was confident about being able to make these payments. So Tesco wasnt aware 
at this point that Miss C was going to struggle.
Its Tescos fault that Miss Cs payments were set higher than they needed to be. But I 
dont think its solely Tescos fault that Miss C chose to endure what she tells us was 
considerable hardship, rather than contact Tesco again about the difficulties she was 
having. She said in October that she had thought for some time that this plan must be 
wrong, but shed kept paying. If she had contacted Tesco again, this mistake may 
have been discovered earlier. 
For those reasons, I dont think I can hold Tesco solely responsible for all of the 
problems Miss C told us were caused by sticking to her plan. But I do think there were 
a number of failings on the call with Miss C where this plan was set up, so I think that 
Tesco is at least partly responsible for the difficulties Miss C then encountered.
Tesco paid Miss C £150 to make up for getting her plan repayment wrong, and for 
giving her incorrect advice about her minimum payments going forward. It has clearly 
given Miss C poor service. But, because I dont think that Tesco is solely responsible 
for all of the problems Miss C has experienced, I dont think it needs to pay the £550 
that Miss C has asked for. 
I do think Tesco has given Miss C poor service on more than one occasion. It has 
contradicted itself, caused confusion, and even when rectifying earlier problems has 
continued to make mistakes. I think its reasonable to conclude that these repeated 
mistakes have made it much more difficult for Miss C to manage her finances at a time 
when she was already having difficulties. Because of that, I think Tesco should pay 
Miss C more than the £150 it has already sent her. I think Tesco should pay a further 
£150 now, to make up for the poor service it has given Miss C. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss C said she agreed with all the comments, and was happy to accept the decision. Tesco 
replied to ask me to reconsider the amount of compensation in this case.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Tesco sent a detailed response. It started by saying that it didnt think my analysis of the 
complaint was very different to its, so it was surprised by the level of compensation. For 
reasons Ill set out, I dont think my analysis is quite as similar to Tescos as it suggests. 
Tesco says it cant be blamed in any way for the difficulties Miss C faced. It said she 
shouldve contacted it sooner if she was having difficulties, or shouldn't have agreed to pay 
£319.77. Ive explained I dont think Tesco is solely to blame for these difficulties, but I do 
think it carries some of the responsibility for this. 
I noted in my provisional decision that I thought there were a number of failings on the 
second 2 July call. As well as the examples given in my provisional decision, I also note 
Tesco didnt support Miss C through an income and expenditure assessment over the 
phone. It explained rather briefly, and at a very high level, how an income and expenditure 
assessment should work, but never took detailed figures from Miss C to confirm the 
affordability of this plan for her. I think Tesco could have done rather more here to ensure that Miss C had understood her own income and expenditure, and made sure that her 
decision on affordability was an informed one. 
Tesco also now says Miss C shouldve called back if she was having difficulties. And in its 
original submissions to us, Tesco said that Miss C was given the option to come back to 
Tesco if the monthly repayments became unaffordable. 
On this section of the call, Tesco told Miss C her account would remain in arrears while she 
was making payments to the plan. And if she missed a payment that could lead to further 
action. So Tesco said it was very important Miss C contact it if she was having difficulty 
making her payments. I dont think this is quite the same as giving Miss C the option to call 
back if she just couldnt afford her payments. The call gave me the impression Miss C had 
little option but to either make her payments, or have her debt defaulted. I think its 
reasonable to assume Miss C wouldve got the same impression. This is particularly 
unfortunate in the context of payments which we now know were set unnecessarily high. 
Tesco also now says that agreeing the plan over a longer period wouldve been a possibility 
if Miss C couldnt afford the cost. But Miss C wasnt given that option on her 2 July call. She 
was told then that she could have only twelve months in collections, so she had to pay off 
her arrears in five months and maintain her normal monthly payment.
I also note that Tesco made another mistake on the 2 July call, about the level of Miss Cs 
minimum payment once her plan was complete. It said that her minimum payments would be 
roughly £213 going forward. Tesco later said these would actually be about £130. So when 
Miss C was struggling with her plan payments, and decided to sell her car, she was under 
the impression that she had further large payments due on her plan, and then over £200 per 
month on minimum payments. Neither of which turned out to be the case. 
Tesco also suggests Id found that Miss C wouldnt have entered into a payment plan if shed 
been given the right arrears figures. But thats not what I said. The provisional decision, 
reproduced above, says I thought Miss C wouldve entered into a plan anyway. 
Overall, I disagree with the argument Tesco puts forward, that this is simply a case of poor 
customer service. When a bank provides poor customer service, I have to consider what 
impact that had on the customer. And in this case, as I set out in my provisional decision, I 
think the level of customer service contributed to Miss C being in hardship, suffering stress 
and taking time off work, and taking a decision to sell her car which may not have actually 
been necessary. For those reasons, I dont think Tescos initial payment of £150 provided 
sufficient compensation, and I still think it should pay Miss C £150 more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC must pay Miss C £150 in 
compensation, in addition to what its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman