The complaint
Mr and Mrs G  on behalf of Company C  complain that Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) have mishandled their legal expenses insurance claim.
Aviva use intermediaries (in this case DAS) to administer their legal expenses insurance, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts/omissions of DAS as the intermediary.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision in response to Mr and Mrs 
Gs submissions that Aviva:
Caused undue delays in progressing their claim, which forced them to appoint their
own solicitor.
Closed their case in November 2017 without consultation, while their legal fees
remain unpaid.
Mis-sold the policy, as it does not state that the policyholder would have to deal with
third parties other than Aviva and their broker.
As a result, Mr and Mrs G want Aviva to settle the legal costs they have incurred after 
appointing their own solicitor, as well as a refund of the premiums they have paid over the 
past 20 years as they do not feel the policy was not fit for purpose. Mr and Mrs G also want 
compensation for the health issues caused by their ongoing claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Legal costs
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that DAS did not allow them to continue instructing their own 
solicitor after their claim was accepted, and that they will not cover the legal fees they have 
incurred. However, the policy terms and conditions of their insurance contract set out that, 
upon receiving a claim:
If a solicitor is required to deal with your legal problem, we will appoint one from the 
approved panel.
DRN-1696888The policy also sets out the circumstances where the policyholder may appoint their own 
solicitor:
 If the Claims Administrator agrees to start legal proceedings and it becomes 
mandatory for an Insured Person to be represented by a lawyer, or if there is a conflict 
of interest, an Insured Person can choose an Appointed Representative by sending 
the Claims Administrator the suitably qualified persons name and address.
I am satisfied this policy term appears to be consistent with Regulation 6 of the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990, which provide a policyholder with 
the freedom to choose their own solicitor only in certain circumstances: 
(1) Where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or 
other person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or 
serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be 
free to choose that lawyer (or other person)
(2) The insured shall also be free to choose a lawyer (or other person having such 
qualifications as may be necessary) to serve his interests whenever a conflict of 
interest arises.
In the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case, proceedings had not been issued, and neither 
have I seen any evidence of a conflict of interest, so they would not have been entitled to 
appoint their own solicitors at the stage that they did  either under the policy terms or in 
line with the 1990 Regulations. But I appreciate there were avoidable delays in Aviva 
progressing the claim. The insurer was notified of the claim on 22 August 2017, but they did 
not appoint panel solicitors until 28 September 2017. And given the urgency of Mr and Mrs 
Gs legal action, I accept that they were left with very little choice but to appoint their own 
solicitor in the period where they were waiting for a response. 
Aviva have agreed to cover Mr and Mrs Gs reasonable legal costs incurred between the 
point their claim was made and the point panel solicitors were eventually appointed, which I 
think is a fair and reasonable compromise given that such costs would not have been 
incurred but for the insurers delay. However, I have not seen any persuasive evidence that 
would suggest Avivas panel solicitor was not capable of taking over the dispute  such that 
it had to remain with Mr and Mrs Gs own solicitor. Therefore, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable for Aviva to have to cover any costs incurred after they appointed panel 
solicitors on 28 September 2017  and neither is there any contractual basis for these costs 
to be covered under the policy either. 
I also note that Aviva made it clear to Mr and Mrs G in emails of 6 September 2017 and 29 
September 2017 that they would only fund their own solicitor at the point that it became 
necessary to initiate legal proceedings  so Im satisfied the insurer made it clear that they 
would not consider covering legal costs other than those of the panel solicitor at the time in 
question. 
Case closed without warning
Mr and Mrs G say that their case was closed without warning. But I can see that emails were 
sent by Aviva on 3 and 27 October 2017 advising that the case would be closed as there 
had been no response. Mr and Mrs G said that these emails went into their spam inbox. Its 
unfortunate that this happened, but this is not something Aviva can fairly be held responsible 
for. I also note that the panel solicitors that were appointed closed their file on 9 November 
2017 as Mr and Mrs G did not respond to their requests for instruction (presumably because they were still instructing their own solicitors). So Im not persuaded that they have been 
treated unfairly here. 
Even if the file had been closed in error, Aviva have already paid £400 compensation, so I 
do not think such an error would warrant any higher award than this in any event.
Policy mis-sold
Mr and Mrs G believe that the policy was misrepresented to them as they were never told 
they would have to deal with third-party administrators, and always believed they would only 
be dealing with the insurer and their broker. I appreciate that the legal expenses cover is 
underwritten by Aviva. But it isnt uncommon for an insurer to contract out the administration 
of various different elements of a policy. Indeed, insurers are also required by the 1990 
Regulations to adopt such arrangements to avoid conflicts of interest, where an insurer is 
required to entrust the management of claims under legal expenses insurance contracts to 
an undertaking having separate legal personality (see Regulation 5 of The Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990: Arrangements for avoiding 
conflicts of interest).
So I dont think Aviva have done anything wrong by passing the claim onto DAS Legal to 
administer. But, as they instructed DAS to act on their behalf as an agent, Aviva are still 
ultimately responsible for the acts or omissions of their third-party administrator. 
I therefore cannot agree that the policy has been mis-sold in this respect. And even if it had, 
such a complaint would need to be directed to the entity that originally sold the policy to Mr 
and Mrs G rather than the underwriter.
Compensation
This leaves the matter of whether the compensation offered by Aviva is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs G do not feel that £400 is commensurate to the experience they have had with 
their claim, and argue that that their health (and that of their employees) has suffered, so 
they should receive further compensation.
However, its important to note here that the consumer in this case is a limited company  
not Mr and Mrs G themselves. A limited company is a separate legal entity from the people 
who run it, so if a complaint is brought on behalf of a company, I cannot compensate the 
directors or employees personally. A company cannot experience pain and suffering or 
distress, so I cannot make any award in this respect. But I can make an award for the 
inconvenience caused to the company.
Aviva have accepted that their handling of the claim could have been better, and that there 
were avoidable delays, which I appreciate would have inconvenienced Company C. But 
Aviva have already awarded £400 compensation for the impact of their poor handling which, 
in the circumstances, I consider to be a proportionate reflection of the inconvenience caused 
to Company C. So I do not consider the actions of Aviva or DAS to warrant any further 
compensation at a higher level.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman