DRN-3199395
The complaint
Mr M complained that hed been unsuitably advised to transfer out of his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) by Century Life; responsibility for this advice lies with Phoenix Life 
Limited. Mr M doesnt think the redress he was paid in 1999 under the pension review was 
sufficient
What happened
Mr M was a member of his OPS until 1991/ 1992 when he was advised to transfer his OPS 
benefits to a personal pension plan (PPP). At the time he had around 15 years qualifying 
service. Mr M followed this advice, at the time his OPS had a transfer value of around 
£19,000.
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pension business, including pension transfers that had happened 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994. This was known as the pension review and 
arose from the widespread mis-selling of PPPs. Mr Ms transfer came to be considered 
under this industry-wide exercise. 
In 1999, Phoenix reviewed the advice given to Mr M in 1992. It concluded the transfer had 
not been suitable and would have caused Mr M financial loss. Phoenix said they completed 
the loss calculation redress exercise in accordance with the guidance from the then 
regulator.  Mr M couldnt be reinstated into his original OPS, in such circumstances a loss 
sum was calculated using the pension review methodology. Mr M accepted Phoenixs offer 
in November 1999. The loss sum calculated was added to Mr Ms PPP also in November 
1999. 
In 2020, Mr M complained to Phoenix, as he says the benefits available from his PPP are 
much less than those that would have been available to him, had he remained a deferred 
member of his OPS. 
Phoenix rejected Mr Ms complaint. They agreed it had previously been identified that Mr Ms 
transfer had been unsuitable under the pension review exercise and this had caused Mr M 
loss. But following the regulators guidance under the review, redress had been calculated 
and Mr M had accepted this redress in 1999. And Phoenix set out their approach that where 
the guidance had been followed, the appropriate calculations completed and redress 
accepted and paid, they would not, and were not required to reconsider loss.
Investigators view
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. An investigator didnt uphold it and explained 
why. In summary the investigator concluded there was nothing to suggest Phoenix hadnt 
followed the pension review requirements at the time, and as such this was intended to be a 
one- off exercise when establishing suitability and any loss, so he would not require Phoenix 
to do anything further.
Mr Ms response to the view
Mr M doesnt accept the investigators view. In summary it doesnt feel fair to him that he 
was paid redress that he considers wholly inadequate and which he can now see didnt 
match the benefits he would otherwise have been entitled to under his OPS. 
Mr M feels its clear he is far worse off than he ought to be. He says this shows the 
inadequacy of the pension review redress exercise, and whether it is the fault of Phoenix, or 
failures within the Pension review, or the regulator, it isnt fair to him. Mr M thinks someone 
ought to be held responsible for his loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry my decision will disappoint Mr M, but I am not upholding his complaint. 
As Mr M rightly identifies there is no issue around the suitability of the advice he received to 
transfer out of his OPS and into a PPP. This advice has already been considered (under the 
pension review) and found to have been unsuitable for Mr M. It was also found at the time, 
that Mr M would have suffered loss as a consequence.
Mr M appreciates the pension review was directed by the regulator at the time. It was 
designed to be a one-off exercise to ensure people who had been unsuitably advised to 
transfer out of OPS for example, were identified. And where loss was established (using the 
calculations and methodology guidance provided by the regulator), the relevant sum was 
paid to such individuals as settlement, where, for example, people could not be reinstated 
into their OPS.
The redress exercise used a number of assumptions to calculate loss, with the intention of 
ensuring a customer didnt lose out as a consequence of the unsuitable transfer. The 
calculation intended to identify the sum required to ensure Mr Ms lost OPS benefits could be 
matched by the PPP, when he reached the OPS normal retirement date. The calculation 
used assumptions that were considered reasonable at the time.
Unfortunately investment performance has not matched the rates considered reasonable at 
the time of the pension review. This means it is likely that Mr Ms PPP benefits may well not 
now match the benefits he could have received had he remained within his OPS. But this 
doesnt mean Phoenix ought to be required to revisit the review.
I dont consider there are persuasive grounds to suggest the review and calculations 
guidance as required at the time, were not followed. Ive seen Mr Ms OPS were contacted 
for information and the redress calculations were outsourced to a specialist actuarial firm. I 
dont think this is at the heart of Mr Ms complaint in any event.
Mr M feels unhappy because he feels the review guidance cant have been adequate given 
he isnt in the position now that he thinks he ought to be. I understand Mr M is likely to feel 
disappointed when he looks at how his PPP has performed against the benefits he feels he 
would otherwise receive from his OPS. However the pension review was designed as a one-
off exercise, and I am satisfied Phoenix acted in accordance with the relevant guidance at 
the time in reviewing Mr Ms transfer. Having done so, this means on balance they 
calculated and paid Mr M as they were required by the regulator at the time. Mr M accepted 
this settlement at the time, and there are limited circumstances where I would look beyond 
that agreement, and these are not met here. My role is to consider the complaint made against Phoenix. As such I dont consider Phoenix 
need to do anything further here, the pension review exercise and redress having been 
completed in 1999. It isnt within my remit here to consider the adequacy of the pension 
review and the calculations and assumptions provided in the guidance applied at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint against Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman