DRN-3907863
The complaint
Miss C and Mr D are unhappy with the medical assistance provided to them by Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva) under their travel insurance.
What happened
Miss C and Mr D were on a trip abroad. They had annual worldwide travel insurance which 
was underwritten by Aviva. On 25 April 2022, Miss C called Aviva to inform it that Mr D had 
an accident. Aviva and Miss D were in communication several times between 25 April 2022 
and 8 May 2022. This was until Mr D had been repatriated following a fit to fly certificate 
and corresponding travel arrangements were made. Mr D arrived back in the UK on 
9 May 2022. 
Miss C and Mr D say they experienced several problems with Aviva while arranging medical 
assistance and repatriation. They also say they experienced delays in settling parts of the 
claim. 
They made a complaint to Aviva. It said its medical team had offered a reasonable level of 
support and accommodation to both Miss C and Mr D. Aviva also said considering the 
issues they had that it had received feedback on, it offered a compensation payment of 
£500. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Miss C and Mr D brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. He concluded there were some delays in receiving payments in 
relation to settling the claim and making payments, the accommodation and the level of 
nursing provided. However, overall, he concluded £500 was a fair and reasonable offer as 
compensation in recognition of any failings. He thought Aviva had taken reasonable steps to 
provide support as well as arranging alternative accommodation and it requesting 
information, at points, wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss C and Mr D disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
So, its been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I can see Miss C and Mr D feel strongly about Avivas handling of the claim and theyve 
submitted comprehensive responses. Id like to confirm that by not repeating each and every 
point here, Im not in any way demeaning those responses. Additionally, Id like to reassure 
them that while I wont be responding to each and every point, I have carefully read all their 
submissions.
As the crux of the complaint centres around the service provided by Aviva in handling the 
claim, Ive specifically looked at the overall timeline of what happened between 25 April 2022 
to 8 May 2022. 
There were several emails between Aviva and Miss C over the course of this time, there 
were also phone calls made between the two parties and notes added in regard to the 
progress of the claim. On most days, there was more than one form of communication. I can 
see the claim was progressing and responses were being provided promptly by both sides to 
help move this along. 
The timeline shows approximately 25 entries of emails and updates being provided by Aviva 
to Miss C and Mr D. And it also shows around 12 entries of communication prompted by 
Miss C and Mr D. 
Ultimately, Mr D was repatriated on 9 May 2022; flights were arranged, along with an 
ambulance transfer for his return to the UK. 
I do acknowledge that along the way, there were some issues. For example, there was an 
issue with the accommodation provided, the fact that the nurse allocated wasnt provided a 
separate room to Mr D and the quality of the care provided by the nurse was poor. I 
appreciate that everything did not go as smoothly as Miss C and Mr D would have liked and 
it was disappointing for them to have to raise these each time with Aviva. However, I can see 
that Aviva attempted to rectify the issues as soon as it became aware and while the 
turnaround of these might not have met Miss C and Mr Ds expectations, I do think Aviva 
provided support and advice as much as possible and didnt act unreasonably or ignored the 
issues. 
Miss C has said there has been no explanation regarding the standard of the nurse provided 
to care for Mr D. I understand this must have been frustrating but from what I can see, Aviva 
did everything it could to provide the appropriate. The nurse was provided by a medical team 
not in the UK so while I understand the care was poor, I dont think this is an issue that Aviva 
can be held responsible for as it wasnt entirely in its control.
Aviva has acknowledged, apologised and recognised that there were some aspects of the 
claim handling that could have been better. It therefore offered £500 in recognition of this. 
Im satisfied, in the circumstances of what happened, this amount is fair and reasonable. 
I can see the claim itself has been settled and although Miss C and Mr Ds experience 
wasnt to their expectations, the £500 compensation offered overall, is fair and reasonable 
taking everything into account. I understand Miss C and Mr D will be disappointed but I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Aviva to increase this. It 
follows that I dont require Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss C and Mr Ds complaint about Aviva 
Insurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman