DRN-3644206
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance 
dealt with his request for assistance after his income had been affected by the Coronavirus 
(Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle. He paid an advance payment of £2,780, and the agreement was for £11,104.46 over 
60 months; with 58 monthly repayments of £272.98, and an initial and final payment of 
£322.98. At the time the car was just over 5 years old and had done around 27,000 miles.
Mr Fs income was affected by Covid-19 and, in March 2020, he agreed a three-month 
payment deferral with Oodle. However, Mr F was unable to restart payments and he agreed 
with Oodle that hed pay them £50 a month for two months. But he also asked for the 
payments after this not to increase in line with the payment deferral, and for the arrears to be 
added to the end of his agreement. Oodle didnt agree to this.
After two months, Mr F was unable to resume payments, and he continued to pay £50 a 
month. Oodle asked Mr F for details of his income and expenditure, so they could arrange a 
suitable repayment plan with him, but he didnt provide this. And, because of the increasing 
arrears situation, Oodle defaulted the agreement in June 2021.
Mr F provided details of his income and expenditure to Oodle, and a £250 a month payment 
plan was agreed. However, because this was lower than the contractual payment, the 
arrears continued to accrue. And Oodle again refused Mr Fs request to have the arrears 
added to the end of the agreement. The arrears continued to accrue, and Oodle 
unsuccessfully attempted to speak to Mr F about the situation. So, after giving Mr F notice 
that they would do so, Oodle terminated the agreement in January 2022.
After the agreement had been terminated, Mr F offered to pay Oodle £300 a month, with the 
arrears added to the end of the agreement. When they didnt accept this, he complained 
about the service theyd provided. Oodle didnt think theyd done anything wrong, and Mr F 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Oodle granted Mr F a payment deferral in line with the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance that was in place at the time. But, because Mr F was 
no longer working when this deferral period came to an end, the FCA guidance that applied 
was that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. And, by agreeing a temporary repayment plan, they did this. However, 
he didnt think that Oodle were required under this guidance to add any arrears to the end of 
the term and extend the agreement. So, he didnt think theyd acted unreasonably by not 
doing so.
The investigator also said that, after issuing the default notice, Oodle continued to work with 
Mr F to understand his financial situation and reach a mutually agreeable solution. However, 
as Mr F wasnt able to increase his payments and start to pay back the arrears, he thought 
theyd acted reasonably by terminating the agreement. So, theyre entitled to repossess the 
car, and any costs relating to this can be charged to Mr F. 
Given this, the investigator didnt think Oodle needed to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he only got into financial difficulties 
because of Covid-19 and hadnt missed any payments before this. And he thought that his 
request for any arrears to be added to the term was reasonable under the circumstances. 
Because Mr F didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
It's not disputed that, when Mr F contacted Oodle about how Covid-19 had affected his 
income, he was provided with a three-month payment deferral in line with the FCA guidance. 
However, when he contacted them in June 2020 to let them know he was now in receipt of 
benefits, this guidance no longer applied. So what Im considering is whether Oodle treated 
him with forbearance and due consideration. And I think they did.
Oodle initially agreed a two-month temporary payment arrangement of £50 a month with Mr 
F, and they worked with him to establish his income and expenditure to see what payments 
would be affordable to him. With other temporary payment plans being put into place. Ive 
also seen that they explained his other options regarding returning the car.
But I dont think that Oodle did anything wrong by not agreeing to extend the term of the 
agreement. I say this because the car was over five years old when the agreement started, 
so would be over 10 years old when it was due to finish. And any extension to the term 
would therefore be at a time when the cars value was much lower due to its age; and the 
likelihood of it needing major maintenance or repairs was also higher. As theres no legal or 
regulatory requirement for Oodle to extend the term, their decision would be based on the 
risk factors involved. And its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell 
financial businesses what policies and processes they have in place.
Given this, and while I appreciate that Oodle couldnt offer Mr F what he wanted them to do, 
Im satisfied that they provided him with forbearance and dealt with his situation with due 
consideration. Because Mr F was paying less than his contractual monthly payments, the arrears on his 
account were increasing. Oodle had let him know that, once the arrears reached a certain 
level, his account would be passed to a third-party company to manage the collections 
process, and this is what happened. And a default was issued. However, Oodle allowed the 
account to remain in default, and continued to correspond with Mr F about a payment 
arrangement.
While Mr F started paying Oodle £250 a month, his arrears continued to accrue. And he was 
advised that the arrears would need to be paid within the term of the original agreement and 
couldnt be added on. However, Mr F failed to respond to multiple requests from Oodle to 
contact them. And, as a result, the agreement was terminated in January 2022.
Ive seen that, after the agreement was terminated, Mr F offered to pay Oodle £300 a month 
if he could remain in possession of the car. Which Oodle refused. And they explained that 
the only way that Mr F could keep the car was by paying the arrears of almost £2,400. Which 
he was unable to do. Oodle also explained that, given the amount hed already paid, theyd 
need Mr Fs authority to repossess the car. And, if he didnt provide this, then theyd have to 
apply to the courts for a Return of Goods Order, the costs of which would be added to the 
account.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that Oodle acted 
reasonably when dealing with Mr Fs account. They provided him with assistance when he 
initially needed it, and they kept him informed as to what would be the next steps if he was 
unable to resume full payments and start making payments towards the arrears. Which he 
wasnt able to do. Im also satisfied that Oodle acted reasonably by both delaying the 
termination of the agreement, and by advising Mr F of what steps they would need to take to 
repossess the car.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, I wont be asking 
Oodle to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman