DRN-3159170
The complaint
 Mr D complains about two loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which he says was unaffordable.
 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr D with two loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Instalment Amount Instalments
1 13/07/2017 90.62 400 18 months
2 30/06/2019 228.56 1000 18 months
Mr D settled loan 1 on 6 September 2017 and paid a total of £711.94. He still has an 
outstanding balance to repay for loan 2.
Mr D says Loans 2 Go has irresponsibly lent the money to him on each occasion.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr D before it agreed to provide loan 1. It 
asked him for details of his income and expenditure. It verified his income using an online 
tool then carried out an assessment of his expenditure. It used credit search results to help it 
do this.
Mr D was entering into significant commitments with Loans 2 Go. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So, I think it was right that Loans 2 Go 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some information about Mr Ds financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above
allowed Loans 2 Go to form a reasonable view of Mr Ds finances  I think that the checks 
Loans 2 Go did for this loan, were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation.
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So
Ive looked at the results of Loan 2 Gos checks to see whether it made a fair lending 
decision.
When Mr D asked for loan 1, Loans 2 Go could see on his credit check results that he had 4 
open credit cards and 2 loans. He seemed to be managing to repay these without difficulty 
and it looks like it included the repayment for these within its assessment. When it carried 
this out, it calculated that Mr D would have had enough disposable income to afford the loan.
So, with what it had in front of it, I dont think the results of Loans 2 Gos checks should have 
led it to conclude, at the time it agreed loan 1, that Mr D was facing any problems managing 
his money. And its estimates of Mr Ds disposable income suggested he could afford the 
repayments hed need to make. I currently think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to give 
this loan to Mr D.
Loan 2
For loan 2, I can see that Loans 2 Go again asked Mr D about his income and expenditure. It 
has told our service that it adjusted Mr Ds income and expenditure based on an online 
verification tool for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for 
expenditure. It says it made its calculations about Mr Ds expenditure by using what it saw in 
his credit report and also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected spend.  
It reduced Mr Ds declared income from £2600 a month to £2347.19 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Mr D says his expenditure was of £1630, to £1858.53, based on checks 
it carried out this included a credit search and by adding the buffer. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Ds 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan because I think it would have seen enough from its checks that ought to have given 
it concerns. At least enough that I think, the checks should have alerted it to wanting to find 
out more.
On the credit check it carried out it would have seen that Mr D was in an arrangement to pay 
on a loan and was also over his credit limit on a credit card. He was utilising the majority of 
his credit available and it would have also seen that his overall balance of unsecured debt 
had increased significantly in a short space of time. I think when I consider what it would 
have seen, I think it ought to have raised concerns with Loans 2 Go about Mr Ds ability to 
repay loan 2 in a sustainable way. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take 
additional steps to verify what Mr Ds actual monthly expenditure was. 
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr D with loan 1 were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr D 
would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months. So, as I have concluded that 
Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I need to consider what it would 
have seen if it had done so. 
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Mr D would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr D could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr D. He wasnt able to provide bank 
statements, but he did provide a recent detailed credit report that has shown a clearer 
picture of his finances at the time loan 2 was granted. Ive looked through this and having done so, its clear Mr D was heavily reliant on using finance by other short-term lenders. At 
the time Loans 2 Go granted the loan, Mr D was also paying off 7 open short-term loans with 
other finance providers. I can see that many of these were not listed on the credit search 
Loans 2 Go had carried out, meaning the additional repayments of these loans were on top 
of the calculation that it had arrived at. 3 of the 7 short term loans were also showing as in 
an arrangement to pay. Mr D was not coping with the repayments from these loans. It is 
clear to me after seeing this that Mr D was struggling to manage his finances and the 
repayments he had to make on these loans, meant he would have had to carry on lending in 
order to meet his commitments. In short, the loan repayments for this loan from L2G 
wouldnt have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr D would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks for Loan 2 resulted in it unfairly providing it to Mr D.
So, in conclusion, I think it carried out proportionate checks when it agreed to loan 1. But I 
am currently minded to conclude Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with loan 2 for the 
reasons given above.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr D responded and said he was happy with the decision 
regarding loan 2. Loans 2 Go responded and said it had no further points to make.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr D and Loans 2 Go have not made any new points for me to respond to. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the 
outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my 
provisional decision. With that being the case, I partially uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
 
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Mr D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for loan 2. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of being given loan 2. 
The payments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr D was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr D to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ds credit file because of loan 2;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Loans2Go Limited to put 
things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman