DRN-3057915
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Elderbridge Limited continued to charge them interest on the 
PPI premium portion of their secured loan, after the original provider of the loan (which Ill 
call Business A in this decision) agreed the PPI was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a secured loan in 2005, this loan included an amount for PPI, the 
policy was designed to cover their loan for five years. The terms of the PPI policy stated that 
if there were no claims on the policy, and no arrears on the loan, in the life of the PPI policy 
then Mr and Mrs S would receive a rebate of the premium. In 2010, after the five year term 
of the PPI policy came to an end, Business A sent Mr and Mrs S the rebate of the PPI 
premium as a cheque.
However, as the PPI premium formed part of the loan, and Mr and Mrs S didnt use the 
rebate to reduce their loan balance, they continued to pay interest on the PPI premium. 
Mr and Mrs Ss loan was subsequently sold by Business A to Elderbridge.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained about the PPI on their loan. Business A took responsibility 
for the PPI complaint as it had sold the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs S. Business A agreed that 
the PPI had been mis-sold and offered to refund the interest that Mr and Mrs S had been 
charged on the premium plus additional compensatory interest, Business A did not refund 
the actual PPI premium to Mr and Mrs S as this amount had already been paid to them as a 
rebate in 2010. 
Because the loan was now with Elderbridge, Business A could not use the refund of interest 
to reduce the balance of the loan as it might usually do. Instead it advised Mr and Mrs S that 
in order to remove the impact of the PPI on their loan they would need to use the refund of 
interest and compensation to reduce the balance of their loan with Elderdridge and that they 
should contact Elderbridge themselves to arrange for this to happen. Mr and Mrs S did not 
do this although they did call Elderbridge to discuss what would happen if they were to make 
a lump sum payment to their loan.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy that their loan with Elderbridge continued to include elements of 
PPI and PPI interest. They complained to Elderbridge about this in July 2019.
Elderbridge told Mr and Mrs S that any issues regarding the PPI mis-sale redress would be 
the responsibility of Business A and so forwarded Mr and Mrs S complaint on. Elderbridge 
then also wrote to Mr and Mrs S in August 2019 explaining their options regarding how the 
loan could be rescheduled if they were to make a lump sum payment. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Elderbridges response and so referred their complaint to 
us. 
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs S repaid the full balance of their loan with Elderbridge.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 19 August 2021. I explained that I didnt 
think Elderbridge had done anything wrong here. Mr and Mrs S disagreed, they feel that 
someone should have taken responsibility for ensuring that the PPI did not continue to affect 
their loan repayments once the PPI charges had been refunded to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
I have some sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs S found themselves in, but I dont think it 
was wrong for Elderbridge to refer Mr and Mrs S concerns back to Business A. Mr and 
Mrs S concerns are about the redress they were paid as a result of their PPI mis-sale 
complaint  essentially that the redress they were paid did not do enough to remove the 
impact of the PPI on their loan and that it was not fair to expect them to use compensation to 
reduce the balance of their loan. It was not Elderbridges responsibility to respond to those 
concerns as they did not sell the PPI or make the offer for redress.
Elderbridges responsibility in this case was to ensure that Mr and Mrs S were able to take 
the steps needed to reschedule their loan using the lump sum they had received from 
Business A if that was what Mr and Mrs S decided they wanted to do, and I think Elderbridge 
did meet its responsibilities here. 
The correspondence Ive seen between Elderbridge and Mr and Mrs S suggests that
Elderbridge was willing to help them in working out how best to reschedule their loan as they
had been advised to do by Business A. And I think Elderbridge explained clearly to Mr and
Mrs S what their options were.
I dont think I can reasonably expect Elderbridge to have done more given that Mr and Mrs S
didnt ultimately take the steps they had been told they needed to take to limit the ongoing
impact of the PPI on their loan.
So while I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, I am satisfied that Elderbridge
did all that it was required to do in the circumstances.
I appreciate the further comments that Mr and Mrs S have made (through their 
representative), but those comments are focussed on what Business A did. Nothing they 
have said changes my decision that Elderbridge did what I think it was reasonably required 
to do here.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman