DRN-2277486
The complaint
Miss W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc havent credited the correct money to her 
account from a quick deposit she made and told her incorrect information.
What happened
Miss W wanted to open a savings account so she visited a branch of Clydesdale to do this. 
A member of staff checked to see if she had a savings account attached to her bank account 
she held with them. She was told that as there wasnt a savings account attached to her 
current account then she would need to open a savings account online.
Miss W asked if she could pay £5,000 into her bank account and then transfer it to her 
savings account once it was opened. Miss W was shown by a staff member how to use the 
quick deposit box.
Miss W says the Clydesdale staff member started filling in the slip for the quick deposit and 
initially put the wrong deposit amount on the slip and corrected it when Miss W informed the 
staff member there was £5,000 being deposited. Miss W says the member of staff then took 
the envelope Miss W had her money in, put it into the plastic quick deposit bag, attached a 
slip and put it in the cash deposit box. 
Miss W opened a savings account online but when she went to transfer the £5,000 she had 
earmarked for the savings account she noticed her account was £1,490 less than she 
expected. Miss W contacted Clydesdales call centre. The call handler told Miss W that the 
£1,490 was deducted for a health care plan. Miss W said she didnt have a health care plan 
so she visited a branch of Clydesdale to discuss the deduction from her account.
Clydesdale told her that there was only £3,510 in the quick deposit bag. They explained 
although £5,000 had been credited to her account, this was before the actual cash was 
checked. When the cash was checked at the cash centre and they counted £3,510 then 
£1,490 was deducted from Miss Ws account.
Clydesdale also said Miss W shouldve retained the tear off receipt for the deposit bag. Miss 
W said she never got given a tear off receipt for the bag. Miss W complained to Clydesdale 
as she was adamant there was £5,000 in the envelope which was placed into the quick 
deposit bag. She also complained she was told incorrect information as to why the money 
was deducted from her account.
Clydesdale partially upheld Miss Ws complaint. They said that they had gave her wrong 
information on the phone about why the money had been deducted from her account and 
offered her £50 to recognise the impact the wrong information would have on her, which 
Miss W refused to accept. Clydesdale said they checked the Closed-Circuit Television 
(CCTV) at the cash centre and there was £3,510 in the quick deposit bag so they did not 
uphold the crux of Miss Ws complaint. Miss W didnt accept this so brought her complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ws complaint. He said that there was no evidence to 
show that there was £5,000 in the quick deposit bag but Clydesdale had been able to 
provide evidence there was £3,510 in the quick deposit bag when it was checked. Miss W 
asked for a Ombudsman to review her complaint as she said that somebody in the branch 
couldve tampered with the bag before it got to the cash centre. She said the investigation 
didnt take into account what happened from when the money left her hands in the branch, 
that it just took into account what happened when the bag reached the cash centre. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that there was £3,510 in the bag which was sent to the cash centre. I say this as 
the CCTV has been reviewed on more than one occasion. An independent manager 
explained in detail as to what happened when they received the bag and the CCTV shows a 
small amount of £10 notes (£110) and £3,400 of £20 notes. 
The manager explains that as there was a discrepancy with the figure wrote on the bag to 
what the cash counting machine showed was in the bag then the notes were hand counted. 
The manager says the CCTV shows there is substantially less than £5,000 in the bag. The 
CCTV shows the operator getting a supervisor to check the discrepancy and they confirmed 
there was less than £5,000 in the bag and so Im persuaded no error was made here.
That could leave a couple of reasons of why there was a discrepancy with the deposit. Either 
there wasnt £5,000 in the quick deposit bag to begin with, or money has been taken from 
the deposit after Miss W left the branch.
I asked Clydesdale if there was any CCTV available of the branch on the day that Miss W 
deposited the funds. Clydesdale said there wasnt as they only hold branch CCTV footage 
for a short period of time. So while this would have proven if Miss Ws quick deposit bag was 
tampered with unfortunately I will have to make a decision without the footage here. 
Ive considered the possibility of someone taking money from the bag after Miss W had left 
the branch. Although I cant definitively rule this out Im not persuaded this happened and Ill 
explain why. For someone to take money from Miss Ws deposit they would need access to 
the quick deposit box and they will have had to open the quick deposit box without anyone 
seeing them. Clydesdale have confirmed that the area in which the staff were working in was 
covered by CCTV and in view of the public and other members of staff. They have also 
confirmed that the key to access the quick deposit box is signed for by a member of staff. So 
Im satisfied that it would be extremely difficult for somebody to access Miss Ws deposit 
without arousing suspicion.
But in the very unlikely event they could access the quick deposit box they then would need 
to break the seal of the quick deposit bag which wouldve invalidated that bag. Because this 
bag would be invalidated, they would need to fill out a new quick deposit bag inputting all of 
Miss Ws details which would take time to do. 
As Miss W said there was only 2 £10 notes then the person would need to add 9 x £10 notes 
to the deposit and take 79 x £20 notes to end up with the breakdown of 11 x £10 notes plus 
170 x £20 notes  = £3,510 which is what the cash centre counted. Clydesdale confirmed to 
me that there were no till differences on the day Miss W deposited the funds so if someone 
had taken money from her deposit they wouldve needed to have added another nine £10 
notes from their pocket to Miss Ws deposit which would be very unlikely.But even if this happened, they would need to seal the new bag, close the quick deposit box, 
return the key to the quick deposit box and destroy the original bag without anybody seeing 
them. Im satisfied that this all couldnt have been completed out of the view of the CCTV 
cameras. And although the CCTV wasnt available to see here, the person would be taking a 
risk that the CCTV couldve been checked before it was no longer held (as it wouldve been 
available weeks after the event had taken place).
Ive noted the strength of feeling from Miss W regarding that there was £5,000 that she 
deposited but I havent seen any evidence to say Clydesdale have made an error here in 
crediting a lower amount to her account. While they shouldve given Miss W the tear off part 
of the quick deposit bag this isnt evidence that someone tampered with the bag and took 
some of the money and replaced some of it with £10 notes. On the balance of probability its 
likely that there was £3,510 that Miss W had to deposit originally and not £5,000 for the 
reasons given above.
Clydesdale did give Miss W incorrect information regarding why the £1,490 had been 
debited from her account initially. Theyve apologised for the incorrect information and to 
realise the impact that this is likely to have had on Miss W they offered her £50. Im satisfied 
this is reasonable as it wouldve been frustrating for Miss W to be told incorrect information. 
So while it follows that I wont be asking Clydesdale to do anything further in regards to the 
discrepancy of the deposit, Ill be asking them to pay Miss W £50 for the incorrect 
information given.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay £50 to Miss W. But I wont be 
requiring them to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman