DRN-2251315
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) applied when she 
returned a car after she voluntarily terminated a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mrs O entered into a hire purchase agreement in July 2017 and she ended the agreement 
early in February 2020. She says shes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were 
applied when she returned the car. Mrs O told us:
A third party collected the car in February 2020, inspected it and provided PSA with a 
report. PSA then wrote to her in March 2020 with details of the inspection and 
advised her she needed to pay £937 for vehicle damage and missing documentation 
and a further £135.43 due to excess mileage;
she disputed the charges with PSA; the excess mileage had been calculated 
incorrectly and the two missing services related to a period when she hadnt been 
responsible for the vehicle;
shes prepared to pay some of the other charges, but the damage to the rear bumper 
should be categorised as fair wear and tear and she shouldnt be charged any repair 
costs relating to the wheels because they are not mentioned in her contract.
PSA agreed that both the excess mileage charge and the charges for the two missing 
services were incorrect. It explained that theyd been raised in error by its third-party 
collections agent, and it removed them; reducing Mrs Os charges to £537.
But PSA rejected Mrs Os complaint about the other charges. It said under the terms of 
Mrs Os agreement, she needed to return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear 
and tear. And it explained that it had reviewed the photographs and the inspection report 
provided by its collection agent and it was satisfied that the identified damage was clearly 
evidenced and was outside fair wear and tear.
Mrs O disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by PSA were fair and reasonable.
He said hed looked at the photographs submitted by PSA to support its position and he 
thought the damage was visible and outside the fair wear and tear guidance and, as a result, 
was chargeable.
Mrs O disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says she accepts some of 
the charges are fair and are her responsibility and shes willing to pay £277. But she 
shouldnt have to pay for damage to the alloys.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs O must keep the vehicle in good 
condition; undamaged with no abnormal wear and tear. So, Im satisfied that Mrs O was 
responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is whether all the 
charges applied by PSA are fair and reasonable.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I have taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for PSA to charge Mrs O.
PSAs inspection report lists seven areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear 
and tear:
1. Front alloy wheel l  scuffed rim damage 100mm+ £65.00
2. Front door l- dent paint damage 31-100mm                    £152.00
3. Rear alloy wheel l - poor repair                                        £65.00
4. Rear bumper  misaligned                                               £50.00
5. Rear alloy wheel r  Scuffed rim damage 100mm+         £65.00
6. Front alloy wheel r  Scuffed rim damage 100mm+        £65.00
7. Front bumper  scuffed corner bumper 100mm+            £75.00
I dont need to make a finding in respect of items (2), (4) or (7). This is because these 
damages arent in dispute and Mrs O has offered to pay the £277 in respect of them. My 
findings, therefore, relate to the four disputed charges  the charges for the four alloy 
wheels; items (1), (3), (5) and (6).
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear to alloy wheels. It 
says:
Dents and holes on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable
Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable
Any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Ive looked very carefully at the photographs that PSA provided, and Im satisfied that all four 
alloys are damaged as detailed in the inspection report and that the damage is outside fair 
wear and tear. Three of the alloys; (1), (5) and (6) have scuffs exceeding the acceptable 
level of 55mm. And the repair work carried out on the fourth alloy (3) is of low quality that I 
consider it to be damaged and in need of further repair. So, I think the charges in respect of 
the alloy wheels have been applied fairly.
Ive considered what Mrs O says about the repair costs to the wheels not being mentioned in 
her contract, but I dont think this makes a difference. I say this because the voluntary 
termination process was explained in a letter sent to Mrs O in January 2020. This letter 
provided some examples of charges that may apply if the car was returned damaged. And 
one of the examples set out the charge for damaged alloy wheels and the cost of repair.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges PSA asked Mrs O to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that PSA has acted fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman