DRN-3145092
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account. 
What happened
In May 2020, Revolut carried out a review of Mr Ks account. And it asked Mr K to provide 
information about the funds in his account. Whilst it completed the review Revolut blocked 
Mr Ks account, which meant he wasnt able to use the account or access the money in it. 
Revolut completed its review and returned the money that had been paid into Mr Ks account 
to the source, which was to another account Mr K had. Revolut also decided to close Mr Ks 
account.
 
Mr K says not having access to his account was inconvenient and meant he wasnt able to 
pay for his childs university fees. He says he hasnt done anything wrong and provided 
Revolut with all the information it requested promptly. He says Revolut treated him like a 
criminal and suspects it of being racist because it no longer wants him as a customer. He 
wants Revolut to provide a proper explanation for its actions and reopen his account.  
Mr K complained but Revolut maintained its position, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. The investigator said Revolut 
hadnt done anything wrong by closing and reviewing Mr Ks account. And she thought 
Revolut had completed its review in a timely manner. Mr K disagreed. He wants Revolut to 
provide a proper explanation why it blocked his account. 
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ks account. And it was 
entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. 
The timing of Revoluts actions was unfortunate. Mr K says he was in the middle of trying to 
pay university fees for his daughter when he discovered his account was blocked. And I 
accept he had to go to the trouble of collating and submitting information that Revolut 
requested. So, I can understand why he found this whole experience with Revolut 
frustrating. But as Ive already explained financial businesses have a legal obligation to 
comply with various laws and regulations. And Revolut were following an internal process 
which they carried out in order to comply with their obligations. This was a legitimate 
exercise. I note too that Revolut completed its review within 8 days. So, whilst I appreciate 
Mr K was inconvenienced when his account was blocked and reviewed, I cant say Revolut 
treated Mr K unfairly.
I know Mr K wants Revolut to explain why it blocked his account in the first instance. But 
Revolut doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. It wasnt 
obliged to tell Mr K why it was carrying out a review, so, I cant say its done anything wrong 
by not giving Mr K this information as much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Revolut was also within its rights to close Mr Ks account and did so line with the account 
terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant say Revolut have done anything wrong when it 
closed Mr Ks account. So, I wont be asking Revolut to reopen Mr Ks account. 
I acknowledge that Mr K has said that the bank is discriminating against him on the grounds 
of his nationality. And he believes that this is the rationale for the account closure. Whilst 
I recognise the strength of his feelings, Ive not seen any evidence to show any 
discrimination on the part of Revolut.
In summary, I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr K. But 
overall, having looked at whats happened here Im not satisfied that Revolut treated Mr K 
unfairly when it reviewed and closed his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman