DRN-2348268
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr W took out a motor insurance policy with Mulsanne through an online price comparison 
site. When his car was stolen, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Mulsanne declined his claim, avoided his policy and asked him to pay his outstanding 
premiums. When Mr W complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked 
about previous claims incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. He thought Mulsanne wouldnt have 
offered cover if Mr W had answered the question correctly. So he thought Mulsanne was 
entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. 
Mr W doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr W 
said hed inputted all his previous claims into the comparison sites online application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Mulsanne thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he stated in his application via a comparison site that he had two previous claims within the 
past five years. And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the 
application and agree he failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because he was asked to disclose all motor incidents or claims made within the past 
five years. And I think this was a clear question asked by Mulsanne through the comparison 
site Mr W used.
Mulsanne said Mr W declared one unsettled fault claim and one unsettled non-fault claim, 
which should have been declared a fault, from 2019. It initially said he should have also 
declared a non-fault claim from 2015. But it agreed this was an error and the claim was 
outside the five year period when it should have been declared. 
Mulsanne also said there was an undeclared fault claim from 2017. Mr Ws car had then 
been written off and so it thought he should have reasonably recalled this claim. And so it 
thought the misrepresentation was deliberate.
Mr W said he had added all the claims and he provided screenshots to show this. But the 
screenshots are dated after Mulsanne avoided his policy. So I cant rely on them as 
evidence to show that Mr W added all the claims when he bought the policy.. 
But Mulsanne has provided evidence of Mr Ws online journey and I can see that only the 
two 2019 claims were added. And I think this means Mr W failed to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when he said he had only two claims in the previous five years. 
Mulsanne has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mr W had not 
made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means I am satisfied 
Mr Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Ws misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr W must have realised that he had another claim from 2017 he should 
have declared as his car was then written off. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Mulsanne was entitled to avoid Mr Ws policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Mulsanne does not 
have to deal with his claim following the theft of his car and its entitled to retain his 
premiums. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Mulsanne to rely on it to avoid Mr Ws policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman