DRN-3559944
The complaint
X says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to tell her that the monthly fee on her account 
would be waived providing the account balance remained at a certain level.
What happened
X complained to Lloyds following receipt of a letter explaining that the fee waiver on her 
account would be ending. She says she was never made aware of the fee waiver since 
opening the account.
Lloyds said on opening the account all customers are provided with the account terms and 
conditions which explain fees in detail, including any criteria for a fee waiver. As a gesture of 
goodwill Lloyds offered X £126 to cover six months fees allowing her time to decide what 
she would like to do with the account.
X was dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Xs concerns and reached the conclusion that the fee 
waiver was likely set out in the terms and conditions of the account and that it was likely she 
wouldve received revised copies of the terms and conditions over the years. They thought 
Lloyds had acted fairly and didnt think it needed to do anything else.
X disagreed, she says she always had sufficient funds in one or other accounts and if shed 
known she didnt have to pay any fees providing the account held sufficient funds she 
wouldve transferred enough money over.  She has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Xs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems X has experienced and see if Lloyds has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put X back in the position they wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
X says that Lloyds shouldve made her aware of the fee waiver on her account and because 
it didnt, she has paid a fee for something she couldve avoided.
Xs account was upgraded from a fee free account to a fee paying account in December 
2003.  Lloyds say she wouldve been provided with the terms and conditions of the account 
at the time and been informed of any charges that applied to the account or told of ways to 
avoid paying the charge. And I agree it is likely this is the case, as I dont think you would 
start paying a fee for something without understanding the benefits or what you are paying 
for. Furthermore, Lloyds says every time there was a material change in the terms of the 
account it wouldve sent customers out revised copies.
I can see that there was a fee waiver on the account X held as Lloyds have provided a 
charges brochure from 2011 that confirms:
If you opened your account before 14 January 2005 your monthly fee may
be waived if your balance remains above a certain level.
I think its worth noting that this says the monthly fee may be waived and that Lloyds terms 
and conditions allow it to make changes to its charging structure at any time provided the 
relevant notice is given. But nevertheless, I think the fee waiver could be considered a 
benefit of the account and another selling point. So I think its likely the fee waiver was 
explained to X at the time she upgraded her account  though as it was many years ago I 
can understand why she may not remember this. 
But even if she wasnt aware of this  I dont think it wouldve changed Xs mind about 
upgrading her account. I say this as she clearly saw some value in the benefits that came 
with the account  indeed, apart from a few months when she did benefit from the fee waiver 
she continued to keep the account despite paying a fee for it.
While I agree it would be helpful for a bank to continually assess how a customer is using 
their account and advise on the most economical way to manage their account  it wouldnt 
be practical and it isnt under any obligation to do so. Ultimately, it is up to the customer to 
take responsibility for their financial affairs including the management of their bank account 
and understanding the terms and conditions of holding that account and what the costs are. 
So with all this in mind I think its likely X was made aware of the fee waiver  but even if she 
wasnt, I dont think it wouldve made a difference as I think she wouldve still upgraded her 
account because I think the benefits that came with the account were of value to her as she 
continued to pay the monthly account fee for a number of years.
I can see as a gesture of goodwill Lloyds offered X £126 to cover six months of account 
fees. So overall as I cant say Lloyds didnt inform X about the fee waiver and that because I 
think X wouldve upgraded the account regardless of this  I think this is a fair way to settle 
the complaint and I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more. 
So overall and having considered everything Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman