DRN-3768264
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was flawed and unsuitable for him. He believes that 
this has caused a significant financial loss. He also thinks it has caused some stress and 
anxiety. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M approached Grove in December 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr 
M was referred to Grove by another adviser who wasnt able to assist with the DB transfer. 
Mr M was concerned about the situation with his employer and about any potential reduction 
in his pension benefits because of this. 
Grove completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he was aged 35, married and had two dependent children. He 
was employed full time. Mrs M was also employed. They lived in their own property which 
was subject to a mortgage. Mr M had investments and savings that had a value of about 
£24,000. 
Grove also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it said was medium 
although that he had very little investment experience. 
In respect of Mr Ms pension arrangements: 
Mr M had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in November 
2017. This showed that he had over ten and a half years service. He was entitled to a 
pension of about £6,600 at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was about 
£142,400.00 
Mr M had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He was 
contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 10%.
In January 2018, Grove advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in funds that met his attitude to risk. The suitability report 
gave a number of reasons for the DB transfer, but the two most important were that Mr M 
was concerned about his future pension, and any reductions to it, if his benefits moved to the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. He also said that he was concerned that if anything were to happen to 
him then he wanted the fund value to pass to his wife. In addition to these two reasons Mr M 
was also considering retiring early at age 60 and he wanted to have some flexibility with his 
pension arrangements.
Mr M complained in 2022 to Grove. He felt that the advice he was given may not have been 
suitable for him.  
Grove didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that, in summary, Mr M had made an informed 
decision to transfer, bearing in mind what was important to him at the time. He was provided 
with full information about the transfer, and he demonstrated that he understood this, 
including the risks and downsides. 
Grove made an ex-gratia offer to settle this complaint, but Mr M didnt accept this. I 
understand this offer is now withdrawn. 
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that Grove calculate and pay any compensation that would be 
due. This was because Grove should have provided some reassurance about the future of 
his DB scheme. And given Mr M was a member of the new DC scheme this would have 
provided the flexibility he wanted. They also said term assurance should have been 
considered if Mr M did want to improve on his death benefits. The information from the time 
shows that Mr M was likely to receive lower pension benefits due to the transfer, so it wasnt 
in his best interests.  
Our Investigator also thought that Grove should pay Mr M £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the advice caused him. 
Grove didnt initially respond to the investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
and ombudsman to make a final decision. Before the complaint was passed to me the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) developed, and now provides, a BSPS-
specific redress calculator. Grove became aware of this, and also noted the FCAs view of 
BSPS related sales and the Financial Ombudsman Services past decisions on these issues. 
It said that this makes it likely that the Financial Ombudsman would think that this transfer 
would be inappropriate. 
It went on to say that it could have advised on whether Mr M would have elected to join 
BSPS2 or the PPF. It thought that as Mr M wanted to retire early, and take tax free cash, 
that it should have advised him to join the PPF. 
And it said that it would accept the Investigators decision to conduct a redress calculation. It 
also agreed to pay the amount that the Investigator recommended for any distress and 
inconvenience Mr M may have suffered.  
However, Mr Ms representative has said that it would like an Ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. And Grove hasnt yet completed a loss assessment - I understand it needs 
information from Mr M to do this. So, Im now issuing my final decision.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Grove was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ms pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
7.22% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 6.48%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 5.82% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 5.58%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point Grove instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr M, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And Grove didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed 
have been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it 
shouldve done. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the 
critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were 
likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Ms recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.7% for 29 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr M was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. 
The suitability report noted that whilst the critical yields were fairly high but that they 
may be achievable. But I dont think this properly represents the situation here as 
even the lower critical yields were above the regulators medium projection rate of 
5% and some were nearing the higher level of 8%. Its very unlikely Mr M would 
achieve these levels of growth given his attitude to risk.
Mr M wanted to retire at age 60 if possible. However, Grove didnt really look into this 
in any detail and the TVAS didnt calculate any critical yields for retirement at this 
age. But it is usual for these to be significantly higher than those at age 65. So, I think 
he was even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF 
offered, if he retired early.
Grove has said that the flexibility from the personal pension would help him achieve 
one of his aims of early retirement at age 60 with an income of around £20,000. I 
think its fair to say that this doesnt seem to be one of his main objectives, and it 
wasnt discussed in detail. As Ive said above calculations of what he could expect to 
receive from the DB scheme at this age werent performed. 
The TVAS estimated that at age 65 the DB scheme would provide an annual income 
of £13,634 or a lower income and some tax-free cash. This was below his income 
requirement of £20,000, and it would be lower still if he retired early. 
But Mr M would receive his state pension in time and Mrs M would also receive this. 
Mrs M was a contributing member of a DB scheme as well. But perhaps most 
importantly, Mr M was a member of his employers new DC scheme. There have 
been several estimates made about the potential value of this at his retirement which 
fall between his estimated contributions of £160,000 to a fund value after investment 
returns of around £225,000. I think its reasonable to say he would have a significant 
amount in this, or if, as is likely he joined a similar arrangement in the future. And he 
could use this flexibly to fund an early retirement by topping up any guaranteed forms 
of income he may have or take cash sums when he needed them. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, I think there was a realistic possibility that Mr 
M would have enough already (with Mrs Ms provision) to enable him to possibly 
retire early. And I think the guaranteed pensions under the BSPS2 or PPF were likely 
to be the most appropriate way to meet Mr Ms income needs in retirement  which is 
the primary purpose of a pension.
Furthermore, Mr M was only 35 at the time of the advice. As he had at least 25 years 
before he was thinking about accessing his pensions, I think it was too soon to make 
any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr M to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he 
didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr M later had reason to 
transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement. Overall, as 
Mr M had no concrete plans to stop working prior to age 65. I dont think transferring 
to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
Grove said Mr M was interested in the alternative death benefits the transfer to the 
personal pension offered. He said that he wanted to know that if he died his fund 
value would pass to his children and it was recorded that death benefits were 
important to him. But the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses 
pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr M drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr M may have thought it would. 
It was recorded that Mr M had life cover of £100,000 within the DC scheme and Mrs 
M had had £60,000 as part of her pension arrangements. If Mr M had wanted to 
leave a legacy in addition to this for his family, Grove couldve explored life insurance 
as an alternative. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence Grove 
did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Grove should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ms desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on 
the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr M may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Groves role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr M with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr M was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I 
think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr M had over 25 
years before he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement 
would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr M was married, and 
his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this 
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr M chose to do 
so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Grove shouldve advised Mr M to opt into 
the BSPS2, and compensation should be based on this.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr M received from Grove 
was unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that Grove also pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. Mr M has said that finding out his pension benefits may have been 
adversely affected by the advice caused him some stress and anxiety. I dont doubt that Mr 
M has been caused distress and concern in relation to his retirement planning, particularly 
given the wider circumstances of the transfer. And Im conscious this wouldnt have 
happened but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Grove should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Grove based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Grove may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Grove should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress the poor advice has caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman