DRN-3416627
The complaint and background
Mr K has complained about overdraft charges and interest Lloyds Bank PLC has added to 
his current account since 2004. Hes said these charges contributed to his financial 
difficulties.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ks complaint and didnt agree that the charges had been applied 
unfairly, it also explained that it believed any complaint about charges applied before 
January 2016 had been referred to us too late and so was not something we could consider.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. She agreed with Lloyds that any complaint 
about what happened before 2016 was made too late and explained why she felt the 
charges incurred after that date had been applied fairly. Mr K disagreed with our adjudicator 
so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 29 March 2022 setting out why I consider that we are only 
able to look at a complaint about events after January 2016. I understand that Mr K 
disagrees with my decision on that matter, but I wont be commenting any further on that 
issue, so this final decision will look only at the charges applied to Mr Cs account since 
4 January 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Ks complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged Mr K were fair and reasonable. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with, regardless of any changes Lloyds may have made to its charging structure 
following the Financial Conduct Authoritys review and recommendations.
That said, while Im not looking at Llloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr K 
fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at his 
account statements from January 2016 onwards, I cant see that there were any obvious 
signs of financial difficulties that should have flagged to Lloyds that Mr K might need some 
help. 
I want to be clear here that Im not saying Mr K wasnt in financial difficulties, but while I 
accept that at times Mr K has used his overdraft regularly, the amounts being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by credits to 
the account, and some of these credits were for quite large sums. So, in the absence of any 
evidence of contact from Mr K to Lloyds to say he was struggling, I dont think there was 
enough to flag to Lloyds that it ought to review Mr Ks account in more detail, or that should 
have alerted Lloyds to any potential financial difficulty. And in these circumstances I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and 
charges it did.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K, but Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt 
treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman