DRN-2806277
The complaint
Mr H complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) have reported 
inaccurate information to his credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint LCCU, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Information Commissioners Office Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, arrangements 
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies sets out the principles under which information 
about arrears, arrangements and defaults are filed with the credit reference agencies.  
They say that data that is reported on (the) credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, 
complete and up to date.
The status of Mr Hs account has been amended on a few occasions. It was shown as 
closed, then open with an outstanding balance and then as closed with Mr H in a payment 
arrangement. LCCU hasnt provided evidence of why it reported this information. Theres 
been no evidence of a payment arrangement being entered into and as the amount owed 
was defaulted in 2012 I wouldnt expect it to be showing on Mr Hs credit file now.
Im persuaded, on the balance of information provided, that Mr H didnt enter into a payment 
arrangement with LCCU and I can see no reason why the account would be registered as 
closed, open and then closed again.
Putting things right
I can understand that this inaccurate and inconsistent reporting would have been distressing 
to Mr H. Ive read his account of the impact it had on him and, in the circumstances, I think 
LCCU should pay him £150 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
They should also remove any adverse reports they have made to the credit reference 
agencies in respect of this issue.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell London Community Credit 
Union Limited to:
remove any adverse reports they have made to the credit reference agencies in 
respect of this issue;
pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman