DRN-3258274
The complaint
Mr J complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) has recorded a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr J entered into an interest free loan with BPF in March 2019, over a 30-month term. Mr J 
maintained his payments until October 2020 when he missed that months payment. He 
didnt make a payment in November or December 2020.
BPF sent Mr J a notice of Default on 31 December 2020. It explained he had three months 
of arrears totalling £56.79 which needed to be paid by 2 February 2021 to prevent a default 
being recorded. It asked Mr J to get in touch with BPF. 
Mr J spoke with BPF on 31 January 2021 and agreed a repayment plan of £27.86 for three 
months  January, February and March 2021. He was told that the first payment needed to 
be made that day. The January payment was received on 2 February, the February payment 
was received on 3 March 2021 and the March payment was received on 7 April 2021 and 
was short by just under one pound. As the payments had been made late, and therefore the 
payment arrangement broken, BPF registered a default on the account. 
Mr J wasnt happy about this and complained to BPF asking it to remove the default. BPF 
didnt agree so Mr J referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought BPF was entitled to apply 
the default given that Mr J hadnt kept to the payment arrangement. Mr J didnt agree and 
asked for his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to 
review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve been provided with copies of the call between Mr J and BPF on 30 January 2021. 
During this call, Mr J agrees that he will pay £37.86 per month for three months to avoid a 
default being registered. Mr J is offered the chance to set up a direct debit, but he says he 
wants to pay via online banking. 
Mr J is told at this point that one payment will be due on that day and the next by 
28 February 2021. Mr J asks if he can make the next payment on 28 February but is told that 
hes already missed three months of payments, and if he doesnt make a payment in 
January, the account may default. Mr J is asked if he can make the payment then and there 
by debit card. Instead, he asks if he can make this payment using online banking instead of 
paying then by debit card. Mr J is told that he can, but that it may take one to two days for 
the payment to be processed which may lead to the account defaulting. Mr J decided he 
would still like to arrange this online.  
Based on this, the payment arrangement agreed was for Mr J to make a payment that day, 
to cover Januarys payment. And then a further payment would be due on 28 February 2021 
and 28 March 2021. However, it seems that the payment Mr J made for January wasnt 
received until February, despite the call handler expressing the importance of it being made 
on time. Following this, the payment for February 2021 wasnt made until March 2021, and 
the March 2021 payment not made until April 2021. 
I have noted that the loan was back up to date by July 2021. But this doesnt change the fact 
that Mr J didnt make payments in October, November and December of 2020, and January 
of 2021. He did make Januarys payment in early February, but February and Marchs 
payments were also late. Based on this, Mr J was significantly behind on his payments at the 
time, and making payments late. BPF did try to help Mr J avoid a default being registered. 
But because Mr M didnt keep to the repayment arrangement, Im satisfied BPF was entitled 
to apply the default. So, Im not asking BPF to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman