DRN-2006829
The complaint
Mr Z has complained about RAC Insurance Limiteds (RAC) handling of his European 
breakdown cover. He is unhappy RAC told him the repair costs exceeded the value of his 
car so it wouldnt be able to repatriate the car. He is also unhappy with the service that was 
provided. 
Reference to RAC includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Z had European breakdown cover with RAC and on 21 August 2019, his car broke down 
whilst on holiday in Italy with his family. A summary of the key events are as follows:
21 August: car broke down. RAC arranged for the car to be towed to a local garage 
(the garage). Under the policy, Mr Z and his family were entitled to hotel 
accommodation as there were no hire cars available on the day of the breakdown. 
The total level of cover for one nights hotel accommodation was €131 but the only 
hotel available charged €210. Ultimately, RAC agreed to pay this cost in full;
22 August: Mr Z was provided with a hire car. The garage was due to carry out fault 
diagnosis on Mr Zs car but didnt do so because hed (Mr Z) said the car was due to 
be repatriated;
23 August: garage carried out fault diagnostics at RACs request. It reported that the 
car needed a new head gasket and possibly, a new engine. The garage estimated 
the cost of repair was in the region of €6,000 and said it would take 48-hours or more 
to do. The Glasss guide valuation obtained by RAC showed the cars value at 
£3,040;
25 August: Mr Zs actual return date. The RAC was told by Mr Zs son on the day of 
the breakdown that their return date to the UK was 5 September.
As a result of the cars valuation and the cost of repairs, RAC declined to have the car 
repatriated. RAC said under its terms and conditions, if the car could be repaired before 
Mr Zs planned to return date which it had recorded as 5 September, then it was entitled to 
choose this option. Further, it wasnt obliged to have the car returned to the UK because the 
cost of repairs exceeded the market value of the car, making it uneconomical to repair.
Mr Z complained to RAC and then brought his complaint to our service. He wanted the car 
returned to the UK and considered he was entitled to this option under the terms and 
conditions of his policy. Mr Z said that when he was contacted by the RAC agent informing 
him that his cars repairs were extensive, he (Mr Z) made it clear he was returning to the UK 
before these repairs could be carried out. During the call reporting the breakdown, his son 
gave the incorrect return date, which Mr Z said was probably due to being under duress, 
broken down in a dangerous part of the road, being bombarded with questions.
In brief, our investigator concluded RAC was entitled under its terms and conditions, to 
refuse to bring the car back to the UK where it was uneconomical to repair. She noted that 
RAC had offered Mr Z £175 for the delays in answering his concerns and also providing him 
with hotel accommodation. Overall, she thought this was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr Z disagreed with the investigator's view. He said an estimate from the cars dealer in the 
UK, showed the repairs were significantly lower than that estimated by the garage used by 
RAC in Italy. So he didnt think the car was uneconomical to repair. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. In bringing this complaint Mr Z has made a 
number of points. I've considered very carefully everything hes said. But in this decision, I 
will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues following our investigators 
assessment of his complaint. And to decide if RAC have dealt with Mr Z in a fair and 
reasonable way. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what 
happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
The breakdown policy Mr Z had with RAC itemised what benefits were available to him and 
in what circumstances. Like all insurance policies, Mr Zs policy also had some limitations. 
The policy did provide cover in some circumstances for RAC to assist Mr Z in the event of a 
breakdown abroad. The main options under the policy were for the car to be repaired before 
Mr Z returned to the UK, or for it to be repatriated at RACs cost.
 
Repair before Mr Zs return date
Under the policy, RAC wont repatriate a car to the UK if it can be fixed before the 
customers return date. Mr Zs level of cover meant it was for the RAC to decide whether to 
get the broken down vehicle home or have it repaired locally. 
On the timeline Ive set out above, its fairly tight as to whether the repairs couldve been 
completed by 25 August, Mr Zs actual return date. One reasons for this is that Mr Z had told 
the garage the car did not need to be inspected because it was going to be repatriated. But 
he hadnt obtained the agreement of the RAC before saying this. This led to a delay in 
getting a fault diagnosis carried out. If this had this done on 22 August, then the 48-hour 
repair period estimated by the garage, could have been met and this wouldve meant the car 
would be ready for Mr Zs return date.
That said, I take on board what Mr Z says about the potential for the repairs, which were 
extensive, to take longer than the 48-hour timescale. The garage itself did say it couldve 
taken longer. RAC was working under the assumption that Mr Z was not returning until 5 
September. This was the date given to the call handler on the day of the breakdown by 
Mr Zs son. I appreciate this was a genuine error on Mr Zs sons part, but even if the car 
could not have been repaired by Mr Zs actual return date, I dont think RAC have acted 
unfairly in taking the decision not to have the car repatriated. Ill explain why.
Repatriation of the car
The policy made it clear that RAC wouldnt repatriate the car if it was beyond economical 
repair. The policy defines beyond economical repair as being: 
where the total cost required to repair the vehicle, including any taxes, is greater than the 
market value of the vehicle. If the vehicle has broken down in Europe, the total cost required 
to repair the vehicle will be based on the estimate for repair provided by the service provider 
in the applicable country in Europe where the breakdown occurred.So, I dont think it was unreasonable for RAC to wait for the garage to tell it how much it 
would cost to fix the car. The garage said the cost of repair was around €6,000. The RAC 
obtained a valuation of an industry accepted car valuation guide showing Mr Zs car was 
worth just over £3,000. So Im satisfied the repair costs quoted by the garage exceeded the 
market value of the car. And given the cost of the repairs exceeded the value of the car, 
making it uneconomical to repair, I consider RAC acted fairly when it decided it wouldnt be 
prepared to meet the costs of repatriating his car.
Mr Z says he doesnt think the repairs wouldve cost as much as the garage in Italy said it 
would. He says his local garage (local to his UK home) quoted him £1,200 for the repairs. He 
has also provided a written quote from a UK dealership which says the repairs would cost 
around £2,000. If this was case, the car wouldnt be uneconomical to repair. But as Ive said, 
it's a serious fault his car has had and the dealership quote doesnt include the cost of a new 
engine  it only refers to the cost of replacing a head gasket. Im also mindful of the fact that 
neither his local garage nor the dealership have had the benefit of inspecting the car, unlike 
the garage in Italy. All in all, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for RAC to rely on the 
quote from the garage who had actually inspected the car and carried out a fault diagnosis. 
I do, however, understand that Mr Z found the whole situation distressing. And I note that 
RAC has agreed it couldve handled some matters better. There was a delay in providing 
Mr Z and his family with hotel accommodation. Further, there were delays in dealing with his 
concerns after he returned to the UK. As well as meeting the full cost of the hotel which was 
above the level of cover Mr Z had under his policy, the RAC has paid him £175 for the 
delays it caused. Overall, I think what its done to compensate Mr Z for these issues, is fair. 
So while I can understand Mr Z found the situation frustrating, I don't think this is because 
RAC has done anything outside of the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Im not going 
to ask it to do anything differently here.
My final decision
RAC Insurance Limited has already paid Mr Z £175 to settle the complaint and I think this is 
fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that RAC Insurance Limited doesnt have to 
do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman