DRN-2115400
The complaint
 Mr S isnt happy that Renewable Energy Claims Centre Ltd (RECC) charged him their 
fee when he said he hadnt accepted an offer for his mis-sold solar power panels claim.
What happened
In September 2016, following a call from RECC. Mr S signed a letter of authority (LoA) 
authorising RECC to act on his behalf to pursue a claim for mis-sold solar panels. Mr S said 
he signed the agreement based on RECCs assurances that he would receive 
compensation, and that the agreement was made on a No Win No Fee basis.
In March 2017, the loan company for the solar panels offered to reimburse Mr S with a 
reduction in his loan. Mr S didnt agree to this and the complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. In August 2019 a final decision was made about Mr S 
complaint. 
in March 2020, Mr S said RECC asked him to pay their success fee for his claim for mis-sold 
solar panels. Mr S said he felt pressured into making the payment which left him in financial 
difficulties. He also said the agreement he had with RECC was to get all of the money hed 
paid to the solar panel loan company back plus interest. This hadnt been the case, so as his 
claim wasnt successful their fee wasnt due. Mr S wanted RECC to reimburse him for the 
fee hes paid.
Mr S also said that that he hadnt received any compensation as the company had 
recalculated what they said he owed them. And had added the compensation back into the 
balance of the loan he had with them. 
RECC said Mr S had received his compensation in October 2019 but had stopped 
communicating with them. They said they invoiced him for their fee when they found out his 
claim had been successful, and compensation had been paid.
Mr S wasnt happy with RECCs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said RECC could charge their fee on a successful claim. But shouldnt have 
asked for their fee before Mar S had received it. She said RECC should pay Mr S £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed received the compensation in October 2019 and had used it 
to buy a car and carry out household improvements. He reiterated RECC hadnt been 
successful in getting his loan cleared as he was still having to repay the loan. He asked for 
an ombudsman to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im partially upholding this complaint.
Mr S has made several points, many of which relate to the merits of his mis-sold solar panel 
claim. Ive considered the information that Mr S has given to us.
As the Claims Management Ombudsman our role is to consider complaints about the 
service a CMC, such as RECC, has given while handling a claim on his behalf. We cant 
reinvestigate or change the outcome of the original underlying claim  in this case Mr S 
claim for mis-sold solar panels. So, in reaching my decision Ive looked to see whether 
RECC has been fair and reasonable in their dealings with Mr S. And if the success theyve 
charged him is justified.
The agreement Mr S had with RECC was on a No win No fee basis. This means RECC
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. So,
any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was
successful, RECCs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
I have looked at the terms and conditions that Mr S agreed to when he asked RECC to act 
on his behalf. They said:
'Success Fee' means the fee which is payable to Us if Your claim results in Compensation.
And goes on to say:
Compensation' means any and all of (i) the total amount payable under Your Debt being 
reduced,(ii) Your Creditors or the Third Party accepting that You do not have to repay Your 
Debt or part of it, and/or, (iii) Your Creditors or Third Party making a payment of redress, 
damages or gesture of goodwill to You
I can see that a final decision was made about Mr Ss claim in August 2019. It was found 
that Mr S had agreed to a loan for solar panels on the understanding these would be self 
funding.  But this hadnt been the case. The ombudsmans decision allowed Mr S to keep the 
solar panels. And for his lender to calculate any overpayments that had incurred as the 
panels hadnt accrued the savings Mr S had been told they would. Mr S was then given a 
number of options:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to the consumer and they continue to make their
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to the consumer and they pay a new monthly
payment until the end of the loan term.Mr S said he had chosen option (d). This meant hed receive a payment for the amount hed 
overpaid in utilities as the solar panels hadnt been self funding. But he would still have to 
pay any outstanding loan repayments for the solar panels hed accrued, with a new monthly 
repayment calculated. 
Mr S has said he received compensation from his lender in October 2019. And I would 
consider this to be for the overpayment. He has said the lender had taken this money back 
the next day, but I dont think this was the case as Mr S has gone on to say hed used this 
money to buy a car and to fund home improvements. The second part of option (d) is that a 
new monthly payment would need to be paid until the end of the loan period. I can see that 
there has been some discussion around the amount this would be. And I think the lender 
provided Mr S with a recalculation of his loan. So, Im satisfied Mr S did have a successful 
claim and he received compensation for this. 
RECCs welcome pack says:
You only pay us once you have received payment after we have successfully settled your 
claim.
As Mr S was offered compensation for his mis-sold solar power panel claim I think RECC 
considered Mr S claim to have been successfully settled. And as hed received the refund 
payment, they could ask for their fee. And I think this was fair and reasonable.
I can see that RECC in actively seeking to recover the debt has caused Mr S trouble and 
upset. And I can understand Mr S frustration that it was over six months before he was 
asked to pay the fee. I cant hold RECC entirely responsible for this as Mr S had regularly 
been communicating with them up until September 2019. But I think RECC should have 
been proactive in seeing if Mr S had received his compensation. So, I think they should 
compensate Mr S £100 for this.
So, I agree with our investigator that RECCs fee was justified and that they should pay Mr S  
£100 for trouble and upset to him.  But I differ in the reasoning why I think RECC should 
compensate Mr S for this, but this doesnt change the outcome reached by our investigator.
My final decision
My decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Renewable Energy Claims 
Centre Ltd to pay Mr P £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman