DRN-1865121
The complaint
Mr T has complained about issues regarding withdrawing funds from his Euro account with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr T initially complained to our service regarding a payment into his Euro account with 
Barclays. This was considered by our service under a different complaint reference. 
However, subsequent to this, Mr T also experienced problems withdrawing these funds. Hes 
explained that this led to him needing to drive to a branch to withdraw the funds, thereby 
incurring fuel and parking costs. He also had to take time off work, which caused distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr T then called Barclays and was unhappy with the information it gave him regarding his 
complaint and what was happening with them.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She noted that she hadnt listened 
to the call, as Mr T and Barclays were in agreement about its contents. And it was clear that 
incorrect information was given. So she looked at what had happened, and the effect of this.
Our investigator could see that Euro 1,500 went into Mr Ts bank account on 5 June 2019. 
He then withdrew Euro 500 on 14 June 2019. The contact notes between Mr T and Barclays 
show that he explained the funds were urgently needed for family medical fees abroad. She 
asked Mr T for details of when this payment was due, and if he incurred any late fees, but he 
didnt provide this.
Our investigator also looked into the ways in which Mr T could have withdrawn the funds 
from his Euro account. She noted that as the Euro payment went in to his Euro account on 5 
June 2019, a free transfer could have been made to his Sterling account. A payment could 
then have been made out either by debit card, transfer to another UK account, or by 
withdrawing the funds from the Sterling account. So she didnt consider a bank branch visit 
to have been necessary. This was particularly so, given that the funds were deposited on 5 
June, but not withdrawn until 14 June. So she felt there was sufficient time to choose one of 
these options. This meant she didnt think Barclays should refund fuel or parking costs, for a 
trip Mr T chose to make. Nor had she seen any evidence of any loss Mr T may have incurred 
by any delay in making a medical payment.
That said, she didnt think Barclays had provided good customer service. She noted that it 
should have set up a complaint earlier than it did, and had offered £100 compensation for 
this. She didnt suggest it pay anything further.
Mr T disagreed. He said the call should have been listened to, as it could raise further 
complaint points. He said our service does compensate people for call, fuel and parking 
costs. He feels £100 is grossly inadequate and given the time thats passed and that his 
family medical circumstances have changed, to now obtain medical evidence would be 
difficult and stressful.
Mr Ts complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. I know this will be very disappointing, but Ill 
explain why.
I can understand that Mr T was experiencing a difficult time. But without any evidence of the 
loss hes suffered, I cant make any award. Further, the choice to withdraw funds in person 
was Mr Ts  he had other options, so I dont think it fair for me to award compensation for 
time off work, parking or fuel. There was also a delay in Mr T withdrawing funds that he 
explained were for urgent medical bills. This could have been avoided with the other options 
set out above.
Im aware that Mr T feels I may be able to find other issues if I listened to the call. But the 
call and its contents are not disputed. There was a misunderstanding about how this 
complaint tallied with his previous one. Barclays accepted this. So for me to look for further 
complaint points that havent been raised wouldnt be appropriate. 
In summary, I cant see that Mr T suffered any loss by a short delay in withdrawing his funds. 
I do accept it was stressful, and Barclays has offered £100 in recognition of that. I think thats 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that the £100 Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered is fair. If it hasnt 
already paid this, it should do so now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman