DRN-2853075
The complaint
Mr A complains about Cofunds Limiteds decision to stop hosting his investments on its 
platform due to his United States (US) citizen status. He says this has caused him financial 
loss.
Mr A is represented by his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). Any references to Mr A will 
include information from his IFA. Any reference to the IFA will include her agents.
What happened
Mr A held a General Investment Account and a Stocks and Shares Individual Savings 
Account (collectively the accounts) with Cofunds trading as Aegon. On 17 May 2019 
Aegon emailed Mr As IFA letting her know it was carrying out an audit of all accounts held 
by those who fell within the definition of a US person such as a US citizen or tax payer. 
Because of US tax reporting requirements, Aegon were assessing whether it wanted to 
continue hosting investments for those affected by US tax regulations. In its email, Aegon 
pointed to its terms and conditions where these said:
We cannot accept an application for business from any citizen or taxpayer of the USA. 
And We may be required to dispose of investments you hold due to a change in your 
residence, and we reserve the right to do this without reference to you. 
The terms also said that Aegon reserved the right to terminate the account holders product 
wrapper following three months written notice before termination.
On 4 June 2019, Mr A confirmed he had dual nationality (UK/ US) and on 7 August, Aegon 
sent a letter enclosing a declaration for Mr A to complete and noted the following:
Our terms and conditions have restrictions on customers with connections to the US for two 
important reasons: 1. Unless we obtain authorisation in the US, we are prohibited by US law 
to enable dealings with a US person on our platforms. 2. Were also required to comply with 
our contractual obligations with the underlying fund managers of the funds in which our 
customers invest. Many of these funds are prohibited by US law to enable dealings with a 
US person, unless they obtain authorisation in the US.
On 12 August 2019, Mr A submitted his declaration confirming his US person status. And 
on 14 February 2020 Aegon served him with three months notice confirming it could no 
longer host his investments on its platform. It said Mr A was required to sell his investments 
and switch them to cash and/ or move them to another platform. Mr A was told if this wasnt 
done by 14 May 2020 Aegon would take action to sell his shares.
On 19 March 2020 Mr A asked for an extension to the deadline but the next day, his IFA 
called Aegon to say that he (Mr A) wanted to switch his investments to cash. This was done 
on the same day (20 March). On 24 March, Aegon confirmed to Mr A it wouldnt be 
extending its deadline but on 24 April Aegon extended the mid-May 2020 deadline to all 
affected customers to 17 August 2020. 
Mr A complained. He said the fundamental point of the complaint was the timing of Aegons 
decision  right in the middle of a pandemic when the markets were extremely volatile. 
Mr As IFA said he (Mr A) decided to sell his investments when he did due to market 
volatility and concerns about forced sell in May 2020. Mr A said he lost around £30,000 due 
to the sale. And he would also incur a US tax liability because Aegons actions had denied 
him the opportunity to sell his shares over two US tax years which run from 1 January to 31 
December each year.
Aegon rejected Mr As complaint. It said it could no longer facilitate his investments due to 
the reporting requirements of the US tax authority. Aegon noted it was unfortunate that Mr A 
decided to sell his investments prior to it extending the deadline, but it didnt think it could be 
held liable for any investment loss and/ or any tax liability he mayve incurred. Aegon said itd 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr As accounts.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, he considered Aegon 
had acted fairly in applying its terms and conditions. Mr A disagreed. He said it wasnt about 
the terms and conditions  it was about customer service during an unprecedented time. So 
the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mr A and his representative, but I 
wont be addressing every single point theyve raised. Ive instead concentrated on the 
issues I think are central to the outcome of Mr As complaint. Having reviewed everything, 
Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Aegon is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, 
to run its business in the way it sees fit. It decided, as a business, that it could no longer 
facilitate US tax reporting requirements. So I dont think it did anything wrong in this regard. 
Once Aegon made its decision, it served Mr A with three months notice to sell his shares  
this is set out in the terms and conditions of his accounts. So I think Aegon acted fairly when 
it served Mr A with the required notice.
Mr A says its not about compliance with the terms and conditions but about the customer 
service Aegon should have provided at an unprecedented time due to the Covid-19 
situation. But looking at the correspondence sent to Mr A in May and August 2019, I think 
Aegon did give him sufficient notice to plan and to make an informed choice about what he 
wanted to do with his investments. And did so prior to the issues that arose due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic such as lockdown restrictions which started in the UK at the end of 
March 2020. Whilst these earlier letters didnt say Aegon would definitely close Mr As 
accounts, Im satisfied they gave a clear enough steer as to what was likely to happen if he 
fell into the category of a US person and potential consequences of this for his investments.
I can also see in April 2020, Aegon did extend its original deadline for all affected 
customers by another three months. Unfortunately, Mr A had already decided to sell his 
shares by this point. Mr A did ask Aegon for an extension earlier than this on 19 March 
2020. In response on 24 March Aegon declined this request. But Im mindful this was still at 
the early stages of Covid-19 pandemic. And that the full impact on its customers, at that 
stage, wasnt something Aegon couldve predicted. 
In any event, Mr A had already issued instructions to sell his investments before waiting for 
a response from Aegon to his extension request. During a call held on 20 March 2020, Mr As IFA asked for his investments to be switched into cash. From what his IFA said, if 
Mr A needed to sell his investments, he wanted to do it at that point (20 March 2020) as he 
had concerns about the market volatility due to the escalating Covid-19 situation. So I think 
its likely he still wouldve sold his investments on that day even if Aegon had agreed to his 
request for an extension. Therefore, I cant fairly hold Aegon responsible for any investment 
loss that may have resulted from Mr A deciding to sell his investments when he did.
I also dont think Aegon can be held liable for the US tax liability which Mr A says he 
incurred as a result of selling his shares in March 2020. Mr A says he needed to sell his 
shares over two US tax years to mitigate this liability. But as Ive noted, the initial letter was 
sent in mid-2019 with the final outcome communicated to Mr A in February 2020. So this 
did cross over into two US tax years which runs from 1 January to 31 December. As Ive 
said, Im satisfied the information sent to Mr A was clear enough to allow him to make an 
informed choice about what he wanted to do with his investments.
Finally, while I understand that Mr A and his representatives have spent time and effort 
sorting out his accounts with Aegon following its decision, I cant fairly say its done 
anything wrong. Following up on the types of issues outlined above inevitably involves a 
certain amount of time and effort. Overall, I dont think Aegon has added unnecessarily to 
the lengths Mr A has had to go to either to sell his investments and/ or resolve his 
complaint.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman