DRN-4446222
The complaint
Mr R complains, on behalf of S, that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim he made on Ss 
commercial property insurance policy.
Reference to Mr R or Covea includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
The policy covers S building, which is made up of four flats.
In March 2022, Covea accepted a claim from S for storm damage to pipes and 
gutters of the first floor balcony. S provided a quote for nearly £3,000, which Covea 
agreed to pay to settle the claim in April 2022.
In March 2023, the balcony collapsed after a supporting bracket gave way. Mr R got 
in touch with Covea about it. 
Covea initially declined to take further action based on photos. It said the balcony 
collapse hadnt been caused by a one off storm event but by gradual deterioration 
over time. It later appointed a loss adjuster. They maintained Coveas position.
Mr R complained. He said it was going to cost a significant amount of money to put 
the problem right and the balcony collapse had caused the residents a great deal of 
concern  so much so that one resident was risking a considerable financial loss to 
sell their flat. He thought Covea was responsible for what had happened.
Covea maintained the damage had been caused by gradual deterioration or wear 
and tear rather than a single storm, and the claim remained declined.
Our investigator thought Covea had acted fairly. He said Covea had handled the 
2022 claim fairly, the policy only covered damage from single storms, and the 
evidence didnt show the 2023 damage was caused by the 2022 storm.
Mr R disagreed. He said the 2023 collapse was the result of latent defects that were 
present in 2022 but which went undetected at the time because Covea didnt 
investigate the 2022 claim properly. He said it didnt inspect the damage and 
shouldnt have relied on S quote from an incompetent contractor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by, amongst other things, storm. I generally consider a 
storm to be a particular instance of weather conditions of severe or unusual intensity  not 
bad weather over time.
Theres no dispute the damage to the pipes and gutters in 2022 was covered by the policy 
under storm. Covea paid the quote S provided for repairing that damage.
The dispute is whether the 2023 balcony collapse damage is covered. There are essentially 
two ways it could be. Firstly, if it was caused by storm in 2023 or, secondly, if it was caused 
by or resulted from the 2022 claim. Ill consider the evidence available about the cause of 
damage and then go on to consider each way the claim could be covered.
Evidence about the cause of damage
Covea appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the problem in 2023. They didnt think the 
balcony collapse had been caused by storm because they said there were no significant 
adverse weather conditions recorded locally prior to the collapse and the brackets 
supporting the balcony had rusted significantly. They said the damage had been caused by 
gradual deterioration of the bracket over time.
Mr R provided a structural engineer report from a company Ill call H, which was carried out 
in May 2023. Whilst I know he says it didnt reflect the observations made during the 
inspection, I have to take at face value the professional opinion expressed in the report by H.
In my view, Hs report didnt reach a conclusion about the cause of damage. It noted the 
property is very exposed to wind loading but didnt go on to say that strong winds  at any 
time  had caused the damage. It said the brackets didnt show any particular signs of 
general corrosion and observed that failure in ironwork tends to be sudden. It also said 
natural stresses in stonework can be progressive and the timber posts were considered 
unlikely to have been sufficiently robust, leading to cyclic movement of the canopy and  
balcony. But it didnt offer an opinion on these points as it said further investigation was 
required. I understand no further investigation has taken place.
This means Im not satisfied that Hs report challenges Coveas position. The weight of Hs 
comments are more in favour of a gradual, longer term deterioration problem than a sudden 
storm problem, but no firm conclusion is drawn either way, so it doesnt persuade me that 
Coveas position is unfair.
Mr R has provided his own comments about the cause of the damage, including the 
possibility that the arrangement of nearby buildings could have accelerated wind speeds and 
had an impact on the balcony. Whilst I dont rule out this possibility, nor have I seen 
objective evidence from a surveyor or engineer to say this is the likely cause of the damage.
Was the damage caused by a storm in 2023?
Ive checked the weather records around and shortly before the time the balcony collapsed. I 
agree with the loss adjuster that there werent storm conditions. The highest recorded wind 
speeds were far below that Id usually consider storm force.
That means theres no evidence of a storm at the relevant time. And without a storm, there 
cant be storm damage.
Mr R says continued strong winds after the 2022 storm caused further strain to the balcony 
structure until it eventually collapsed. If that were the case, its indicative of gradual 
deterioration and not sudden damage as the result of a single storm event.For these reasons, Im not satisfied the balcony collapse was cause by a storm in 2023.
Was the damage caused by, or did it result from, the storm in 2022?
I understand this is Mr Rs main point. He says the failed bracket, which led to the collapse, 
was a latent defect present but undetected in 2022.
Mr R bought one of the flats in July 2022, after the claim had been settled. At that time, he 
obtained a home buyers report. It didnt mention a problem with the balcony, so he says it 
supports his position that the problem is a latent defect. But the reports focus was his flat, 
which doesnt benefit from the collapsed balcony, so comment about it was limited. It noted 
repair of the balcony may be needed but didnt identify a particular problem. That repair 
could be a response to the bracket problem or simply to routine maintenance. Overall, Im 
not persuaded the report supports Mr Rs position. It doesnt comment on the balcony in 
enough detail to be relied upon to identify the condition of the balcony in July 2022.
But even if I accepted the bracket problem was present at the time of the 2022 claim, that 
alone wouldnt be sufficient for me to find that Covea is responsible for it  and putting right 
the damage caused by the collapse. I would also need to find that the problem had been 
caused by the 2022 storm. However, as noted above, neither the loss adjuster nor the 
structural engineer linked the problem, and subsequent collapse, to the 2022 storm.
I understand Mr R says this is because Covea didnt consider the 2022 claim thoroughly  
and had it done so, it would have found the problem and linked it to the storm.
Covea settled the 2022 claim based on a quote provided by S. Covea said it didnt need to 
inspect the damage or prepare a report because it thought the amount claimed for was 
reasonable. Im satisfied thats a reasonable position for Covea to take. Ill explain why.
The policy says it will settle an accepted claim by paying the cost of reinstatement. S set out 
what it would cost to reinstate the damage  and Covea agreed to that. Had S asked Covea 
to pay a higher amount and/or for more work, I would have expected it to consider that  but 
S didnt. I cant hold against Covea that S and/or its contractor didnt ask it to do more.
As Covea was prepared to cover the work and meet the cost S set out, there was no need 
for Covea to have the damage inspected. I wouldnt expect Covea to inspect the damage in 
each and every claim, but to use its judgement based on the nature of the damage and the 
cost involved to decide whether an inspection is helpful in a particular claim.
If the information Covea had received ought reasonably to have made it aware there were 
likely to be more costs associated with the reinstatement of the damage caused by the 2022 
storm, I might have expected it to do more than simply pay what S had asked it to. That 
might include an inspection. But I dont think that was the case here.
Whilst the photos Covea received in 2022 may have suggested there were potential 
problems with the balcony beyond the pipes and guttering, there was no indication at the 
time that this had been caused by the 2022 storm. And based on the available evidence 
discussed above, there still isnt a firm link between the 2022 storm and the 2023 damage. 
So even if Covea had inspected the property in 2022, Im not satisfied the evidence shows 
its likely it would have found further damage caused by the 2022 storm.
Mr R says Covea ought to have noticed errors in the quote provided in 2022  and had it 
done so, that might have called into question the competence of the contractor. I wouldnt 
usually expect Covea to question minor errors that are likely to be a typo. And even if it did, I dont see how such an administrative error would give Covea cause to question a 
contractors professional competence. I can only conclude that since S used the contractor 
and didnt call into question the errors, S was satisfied of the competence of the contractor.
Overall
Taking everything into account, and thinking about the different ways Covea might be 
responsible for the damage caused by the balcony collapse, Im satisfied Covea has acted 
fairly. And I dont require it to take any further action based on the available evidence.
Mr R is entitled to take further advice and/or arrange for further investigations if he wishes. If 
he does, I would expect Covea to reconsider its position.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 5 to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman