DRN-3880695
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) rejected his application for a current 
account.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr L applied for an account which HSBC offers. Its a current account with 
added benefits and rewards. He hoped to switch his current account from another bank to 
HSBC and receive a cash incentive which HSBC was offering at the time.
Mr L lives abroad but says he checked that he would be eligible for the account before 
applying. HSBC offers it to customers who live in the UK or the EU. Mr L says he completed 
the application and provided the documents which HSBC requested.  He says he received a 
message from HSBC, asking him to be patient while it progressed the application. Mr L 
didnt hear any more after that. He says he tried to call HSBC but didnt get through as there 
were long waiting times and he was having to call from abroad.
In June 2022, Mr L raised a complaint. HSBC said it hadnt been able to progress his 
application because it hadnt received the address verification information it had requested 
from him. HSBC said it had sent Mr L a text message about this in February 2022 but didnt 
receive the information. HSBC said Mr L would need to apply for the account again. It 
referred him to its website for details of the latest switching incentive. It paid him £25 to 
make up for the inconvenience.
Mr L applied for the account again. But his application was unsuccessful. HSBC said that his 
credit score wasnt high enough to open that type of account. It offered him a basic bank 
account instead. Mr L wasnt happy with this. He said he had completed the application 
process, provided everything HSBC asked for and waited so long only for his application to 
be rejected. He said he didnt think his credit score was the real reason his application was 
declined. He says he has no debt apart from a credit card, which he pays in full each month.
But HSBC said that a credit search was carried out based on the information Mr L had 
provided. It said there was no manual intervention in this process and the decision had been 
made by its system.
Mr L remained unhappy about HSBCs response and brought the complaint to this service. 
He doesnt think the account is really available to customers outside the UK, despite HSBC 
promoting this. He wants to know if any applications from the EU were accepted. He would 
like HSBC to send him a letter of apology, explaining the real reason why it couldnt open an 
account for him. He would like compensation for the time he spent pursuing the application 
and the inconvenience. And he would like HSBC to reimburse his international call costs. 
Our Investigator didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything. But Mr 
L didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls first application was unsuccessful because the address details didnt exactly match 
those on his supporting documents. Its normal for banks to request proof of address from 
new customers. HSBC says that, as Mr Ls address details didnt match, it couldnt take the 
application further without more information from him. I think that was reasonable. 
HSBC sent text messages to Mr L requesting the information it needed. Mr L says he 
received a text message and submitted the information. HSBC says it sent a second text 
message, requesting another document to verify Mr Ls address. Mr L says he received the 
second text message, but he thought it was a duplicate of the first message. So, he didnt 
take any action. That explains why HSBC didnt receive the information. 
The result was that the application wasnt taken any further. I think that was reasonable. Mr 
L didnt find this out until July, after hed made a complaint. But I dont think that was HSBCs 
fault. Due to the misunderstanding with the text message, both parties were waiting to hear 
from each other. That was unfortunate. But I dont think it was detrimental to Mr L overall. He 
was able to apply for the account again, by which time an enhanced incentive scheme was 
in place. And HSBC paid him £25 for any inconvenience, which I think was reasonable.
Mr L applied again. There wasnt an issue with the address this time, but the application was 
declined. HSBC says it used credit scoring to assess Mr Ls application and his score wasnt 
high enough to offer him that account. Its for HSBC to decide who it enters into a customer 
relationship with. But it needs to consider applications fairly. I think it did so here  Ill explain 
why.
The account Mr L was applying for wasnt just a basic bank account. It had enhanced 
features, including an optional arranged overdraft of at least £1,000. Mr L says he wasnt 
applying for an overdraft. But it was an eligibility requirement of that particular account that 
he needed to qualify for an arranged overdraft of at least £1,000. Thats because, if he had 
been offered the account, Mr L would have had the option of taking out this borrowing. This 
information is set out on HSBCs website and was available to Mr L.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to do a credit check. And I think it 
was reasonable for it to decline Mr Ls application if his score was too low. Mr L says there 
isnt any adverse information on his credit file. So, he doesnt think thats the real reason his 
application was declined. But there are lots of different factors which a business takes into 
account when credit scoring an application. The absence of adverse information doesnt 
necessarily mean that the product being applied for is suitable for the customer or that their 
application should be accepted. 
Mr L says his application could have been declined because of his foreign address. He says 
hes not on the electoral roll in the UK and the Credit Reference Agencies cant add his 
overseas address to his credit file. I dont have the details of the credit assessment which 
was carried out or the reasons why the score was low. I think these issues could have 
affected Mr Ls score. But I think its also likely that other factors influenced the score, such 
as the requirement to qualify for an overdraft of £1,000. 
Mr L asks why HSBC is offering the account to UK and EU customers when those from the 
EU cant have them. He wants to know if HSBC accepted any applications from EU 
customers. Our Investigator explained that we cant request information about other 
customers. But I havent seen any evidence that EU customers cant have the account. From the information I have seen, I cant conclude that Mr Ls application was declined was 
because hes not living in the UK. 
I also note that HSBC offered Mr L a basic bank account. So, the fact that hes not living in 
the UK isnt a barrier to HSBC offering him a UK bank account. HSBC didnt offer Mr L the 
switch incentive with this account. But I think that was reasonable. Thats because the switch 
offer was only available to customers who opened the enhanced account (rather than a 
basic bank account).
Mr L feels strongly about this complaint so I realise he will be disappointed with my decision. 
But I havent seen anything which makes me think HSBC acted unfairly here. So, Im not 
going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman