DRN-3947390
The complaint
Mr K is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt transfer some accounts as he
expected, which impacted his business.
What happened
Mr K told us:
He had previously opened several executor accounts with Lloyds. He would make an
appointment in branch, open a personal account in his name, then send documents
to Lloyds bereavement team who would convert the account into an executor
account. He would then pay the estate funds into the account and Grant of Probate
would be provided at a later date when the funds needed to be withdrawn.
In June 2021, he called Lloyds to book an appointment to open several accounts but
was told he now didnt need an appointment. Instead, he could open a personal
account online, bring the required documents into branch to be sent off and then
account would be converted.
In November 2021, he went to his local Lloyds branch with the documents as advised
in the call in June. He was told  he believes incorrectly  that he needed to make an
appointment to open the accounts as per the banks procedure and provide a copy of
the Grant of Probate.
He believed the branch manager was lying and being deliberately obstructive. The
regional manager was in the branch when he was there and said he was correct in
his interpretation of the account opening procedure. He later spoke to a specialist in
the branch who confirmed what the branch manager had said, which he believed had
been instigated by the branch manager.
Lloyds had delayed opening the executor accounts. Hed opened the personal
accounts online and provided the supporting documents to the branch. However,
when hed spoken to the bereavement team said they hadnt received the document 
shed provided in branch which were needed to convert the accounts to executor
accounts.
He wasnt happy with Lloyds staff who had been rude and the banks overall
complaint handling process as it hadnt contacted him as requested.
Lloyds told us:
It wasnt an agreed bank procedure to open an account as a personal account and
convert it to an executor account  although it acknowledged this may have
happened during the Covid pandemic (Covid) to assist customer whilst restrictions
were being eased.
It wasnt able to open an executor account for Mr K without an appointment in branch
as he didnt hold a Grant of Probate. The branch had told Mr K the correct procedure
to open an executor account and it was happy to arrange an appointment to open the
account for him once he had the correct documentation.
It apologised to Mr K that he was given the wrong information when he called its
bereavement unit - but didnt think it was responsible for any delays in opening the
accounts as Mr K had been given the correct information prior to this call.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said:
There was a standard process for opening accounts in June 2020. This was as Mr K
described, opening the account in branch, and then sending the documents to the
bereavement team to change this to an executor account. The Grant of Probate
could then be sent at a later date which would allow any funds to be withdrawn. This
was also the process in November 2021.
During Covid Lloyds had changed its process to limit customers going to the branch.
This meant that as an exception during that time, accounts could be opened over the
phone if the Grant of Probate had already been granted and seen in branch. If it
hadnt yet been granted, customers would need to follow the standard process and
open an account in branch.
The change in process hadnt been documented which may have led to
miscommunication in June 2021 between the bank and Mr K, that he could only
apply using the exceptions process if the Grant of Probate was already held. And
although Mr K was able to open accounts online, these were personal accounts only.
Mr K still needed to go to the branch to change these to executor accounts as he
didnt hold the Grant of Probate when hed opened the accounts.
She was satisfied Mr K had been given the correct information about the executor
account opening process in November 2021. And she wasnt persuaded that the
regional manager told Mr K his interpretation of the banks process was correct. So
she didnt think there had been any delays in opening the executor accounts as Mr K
hadnt actually attempted to open an account prior to November 2021.
She hadnt seen any evidence that Lloyds staff had behaved in an unreasonable
manner, and she couldnt look at how the bank had dealt with Mr Ks complaint as
this wasnt an activity we cover.
Mr K didnt agree. He said:
Hed gone to the branch in November just to drop off the documents required as hed
been told to do in June.
The regional manager had said he would get the branch manager to open the
accounts  which had been done previously but due to malicious actions didnt 
happen on this occasion.
He didnt think the investigator had fully considered the call recordings hed provided
which proved his interpretation of the banks process was correct.
He was unhappy that as part of his complaint, he had asked for copies of the
handwritten notes about his complaint which had been taken by branch staff. Asthese hadnt been provided as requested, this was a GDPR breach which hadnt
been considered.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 February 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it in part. I know Mr K will be disappointed with 
my decision, but Ill explain how Ive reached this. Mr K has provided lots of 
information including numerous calls and Ive taken everything into account, if I dont 
directly reference something in my decision it is not because I havent considered it. 
But Ive focused on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Mr K says that when he visited the branch in November 2021, he was incorrectly told 
by the branch manager that he couldnt open an executor account without a Grant of 
Probate. He says this was incorrect as he had followed this process previously and 
opened several executor accounts in this way. But Im not persuaded thats the case 
here.
Ive looked at all the evidence from both parties and I do think there was an element 
of miscommunication here between Mr K, the branch manager and the banks 
executor team. Ive looked at Lloyds process which says that an executor account 
can only be opened in branch by an accredited account opener. Based on the 
evidence available, the branch manager was correct when she told Mr K, he wasnt 
able to open the account in the way he wanted, and may have previously done, so I 
dont think the bank did anything wrong here by telling Mr K this was the agreed 
process.
Mr K told had previously opened the executor accounts in the way he described. He 
says he opened the account in his own name as a personal account and then the 
account was converted to an executor account by providing the required 
documentation  excluding the Grant of Probate as he didnt need to distribute any 
funds at the time the account was opened.
Ive listened to the call between Mr K and Lloyds bereavement team, so I understand 
why Mr K says this was a process that the bank could follow. It also appears to have 
been a process used by the bank whilst Covid restrictions were in place to reduce 
number of branch appointments required. I say this because whilst Lloyds hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the call with Mr K in June 2021, the bereavement 
team say that a personal account can be amended in this way if the branch sends 
over certified copies of the documentation.
Lloyds has told us that this isnt a recognised process, and that Mr K was given 
incorrect information when he spoke to the executor team. So I think its reasonable 
this led to confusion when Mr K went into the branch with the documents which 
needed to be sent to the bereavement team. At this point as far as Mr K was 
concerned, the accounts were already open, it was simply a matter of changing the 
type of personal account he held. So I think Mr K was caused inconvenience by 
Lloyds from being given the incorrect information.
I recognise Mr K believes that the branch manager was rude and has been 
deliberately obstructive when hes been attempting to open the executor accounts. 
However, Im not persuaded thats the case. Throughout all the calls with the bank, Mr K has been clear about his feelings towards the branch manager, and I think its 
entirely possible there was a clash here which neither party was able to resolve.
Mr K is adamant that he provided the documents required to convert the personal 
accounts in branch as per his conversation with the bereavement team  and I have 
no reason to doubt this is the case. Lloyds has been unable to confirm what 
happened to the documentation or why this wasnt sent to the bereavement team as 
requested, so I can see why this caused Mr K frustration and led to further 
inconvenience.
Mr K told us he was trying to open three executor accounts which have been delayed 
by the banks actions. But I dont agree. It wasnt until February 2022 that Mr K told 
Lloyds that he wanted to open the third executor account. Regardless of the issues 
Mr K had experienced with the two accounts he wanted converted previously, the 
correct account opening process had been confirmed to him in November 2021 so he 
would have been aware of what he needed to do to open the accounts from this point 
but chose not to do so.
I acknowledge Mr K is frustrated by what he perceives to be Lloyds incorrect 
executor account opening process. However, this is a commercial decision that the 
bank has taken and its not for this service to say it isnt able to do this. Ive seen that 
the bank has told Mr K on several occasions that this is the process for all customers, 
so I dont think the third account opening was delayed by the bank.
Mr K is unhappy that he hasnt been provided with a copy of the handwritten notes 
when his complaint was raised. But I dont think its unreasonable that the information 
he has requested isnt available in the original format due to the time that has 
passed. I also think on the balance of probability its likely the handwritten notes were 
added to the banks electronic system before being destroyed  but I cant say for 
sure as Im unaware of exactly what was written down. Im also unable to comment 
on why the information Mr K was provided was redacted. If Mr K is unhappy with the 
information he was given, he would need to raise this directly with the Information 
Commissioners Office (the ICO).
However, I do think Mr K was given incorrect information by Lloyds and caused
inconvenience because the documents he provided to be sent to the bereavement 
team couldnt be located. Even if these documents couldnt be used to amend the 
existing personal accounts, they could have been used to open the executor 
accounts in branch when Mr K was able to make an appointment. Therefore I think 
Lloyds should pay Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the banks errors.
I invited Mr K and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Lloyds accepted the decision and had nothing 
further to add. Mr K didnt agree. He said in summary:
The recommended compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused was 
disproportionate taking into consideration the time this service had taken to 
investigate his complaint.
There was an account holding a significant amount of funds, which he couldnt use to 
settle estate liabilities due to the banks failings and integrity of its staff. This left him 
exposed to legal action from his clients.There has been a systemic failure here which the decision doesnt focus on, yet it 
should, to ensure Lloyds should make changes  where necessary involving the 
regulator. 
The decision has failed to put in place sanctions for the GDPR failings, and it is of no 
relevance if the complaint records are held on paper or electronically. The focus 
should be what was agreed with the bank and how the documents differ in what was 
provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons. I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
Mr K says that the provisional decision hasnt focussed on the systemic failures of Lloyds 
and where necessary the regulator should become involved. However, this service isnt the 
regulator, thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If Mr K has concerns 
about what he believes to be the banks systemic failures, he can raise this with the FCA 
directly. The role of this service is to assist on resolving individual disputes, not look at the 
wider issues a complainant may feel are taking place. The data on the types of complaint we 
see about Lloyds is provided to the FCA and its the regulators decision on whether or not to 
take action against the bank.  
Mr K feels that it shouldnt matter what format the complaints records were in, and that clear 
actions were agreed by the bank. But Im not persuaded thats the case. The provisional 
decision specifically refers to Lloyds written complaint records as this was highlighted as a 
key complaint issue by Mr K throughout his correspondence with the bank and this service. I 
acknowledge Mr K says that Lloyds agreed to provide the written notes of his complaint 
discussion - however I havent seen any evidence this was the case so I cant reasonably 
say the bank did something wrong here. 
Mr K has also said that there was no miscommunication regarding the banks process, and 
that he wasnt told that the actions to open the accounts as requested were incorrect. As I 
wasnt present at this meeting, I have to consider the evidence I have been provided by the 
parties to support their version of events. As both parties dont agree on what was said, I 
think its more likely that there was a miscommunication here. But in any event, the bank did 
confirm its process in November 2021, so Mr K could have opened the accounts he required 
from this point but has decided not to do so. I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for 
Mr Ks decision and any consequences with his clients that arise as a result.
Mr K also says that the provisional decision doesnt cover the GDPR concerns that he has 
raised, but I dont agree. This was considered and the inconvenience of the documents 
being lost was considered as part of the compensation award. However, as mentioned in the 
provisional decision, if Mr K has concerns about the actions taken with the documents he 
gave to the branch and the subject access request information he received, he would need 
to raise this with the ICO. I have considered all the information which both parties were given 
the opportunity to provide and made my decision on that basis. 
Mr K says that he wants another ombudsman to review his complaint as he isnt satisfied 
with the provisional decision, but thats not how our service works. We have a two-stage 
process which was explained to Mr K at the outset. His complaint has already been reviewed by an investigator before being referred to myself, and this is the final stage in our process. If 
he disagrees with my final decision, he may choose not to accept it. In that case, it would not 
be legally binding and any legal rights he may have to pursue the matter through the courts 
would be unaffected.
I acknowledge Mr K is unhappy with the compensation I have recommended due to the 
inconvenience hes been caused. However, as a service we dont award compensation for 
bringing a complaint to this service, or for the time taken for this service to investigate the 
complaint if this didnt cause detriment to the complainant. In this case I can see that Mr K 
was told the correct process to follow by Lloyds in November 2021, three months before he 
brought the complaint to this service, so Im not persuaded there was an impact to him here. 
Mr K also hadnt actually attempted to open an account until November 2021, so Im not 
persuaded there was a delay caused by Lloyds. So the compensation I have awarded is for 
the inconvenience caused by the incorrect information Mr K was given and having to replace 
the documents which the Lloyds branch have been unable to locate.  
So whilst I have considered Mr Ks comments, my decision remains the same, in that Lloyds 
should pay him £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr K £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman