DRN-1824123
The complaint
Mr R has complained about BHSF Limiteds decision to decline his claim under his health 
cash plan insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R held a health cash plan insurance policy with BHSF. The policy would pay benefit 
towards certain healthcare costs such as dental and optician costs. The policy would also 
pay a fixed daily benefit if Mr R were to need hospital day treatment.
Mr R had to attend hospital to receive a pre-arranged intravenous infusion of iron. He made 
a claim for the policys hospital day treatment benefit.
BHSF declined the claim because it said the hospital day treatment benefit was payable only 
if only if the day admission was to undergo a surgical procedure and the treatment Mr R had 
received was not surgery.
Mr R complained to BHSF. He said the policy stated that benefit would be payable for 
hospital day treatment which is what he had received and there was no mention of these 
type of infusions being excluded. He was due to receive six such infusions a year.
BHSF didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr Rs infusions were not a surgical procedure 
and would therefore be classed as outpatient treatment. It pointed out that the policy 
excluded cover for outpatient treatment. It explained that it wasnt possible to list all the non-
surgical procedures which would be ineligible for cover. It agreed to pay his current claim as 
a gesture of goodwill but said that future claims for iron infusions would be declined.
Mr R was unhappy at BHSFs decision. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the terms of the policy were sufficiently clear and that BHSF had interpreted them fairly.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the hospital paperwork clearly showed 
it regarded him as a day patient rather than an outpatient. He considered his claim was 
eligible under the policy.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the table of benefits, the policy states that benefit is paid for hospital day case. The 
policy doesnt define this term but in the further details it says: 
Hospital Day Case
Benefit is payable at the appropriate daily rate according to the benefit schedule for up to six 
occasions in each Policy Year per Insured Person following admission to an NHS
or private hospital, described as such by the Care Quality Commission for pre-arranged day 
case surgery. This surgery must be carried out in a hospital.
Benefit is not payable
1. in association with a claim for Hospital in-patient benefit
2. in respect of cosmetic surgery, sterilisation, vasectomy, pregnancy termination and 
out-patient treatments
3. for injections administered for the relief and/or control of pain
I can understand Mr Rs annoyance at his claim being declined. There a number of non-
surgical treatments which might be administered on a day patient basis and I therefore think 
the requirement to undergo surgery could arguably be spelt out a little more clearly. And the 
list of exclusions includes pain relief injections even though these are a non-surgical 
treatment. I note BHSF says it added this exclusion because the volume of declined claims 
indicated this was an issue for its policyholders. However, it may cause the policyholder to 
infer that other injections or non-surgical day treatments are eligible for cover.
I consider that BHSF was also wrong to suggest that Mr R had received outpatient 
treatment. The evidence shows he was admitted to hospital for his treatment and wasnt 
discharged until over six hours later. Im satisfied he received treatment as a day patient.
However, while I consider that the policy wording could perhaps be made clearer, and that 
BHSF was clumsy in explaining to Mr R why it had declined his claim, I am nonetheless 
satisfied that the policy terms mean hospital day case benefit is payable only in the event of 
surgery. Mr R didnt undergo a surgical procedure. I therefore consider his claim was not 
eligible. I note that BHSF paid this particular claim on a goodwill basis. I consider it has 
acted fairly and doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman