DRN-3090563
The complaint
Mr M complains Nationwide Building Society are holding him liable for the outstanding 
balance of a personal loan he believed had been repaid.
What happened
In May 2021 Nationwide wrote to Mr M, letting him know he was in arrears on his loan 
repayments.
Mr M complained to Nationwide saying his loan had been repaid in 2017. Mr M was also 
unhappy his credit file could be impacted and that a current account had been opened in his 
name when he originally took the loan out.
Nationwide investigated but said Mr Ms loan hadnt been repaid. 
They acknowledged that a payment matching the redemption figure had been paid into      
Mr Ms current account in May 2017. But they said the payment hadnt been paid to the 
account details which theyd confirmed the funds needed to be paid to.
Nationwide also said the status of Mr Ms loan had been reporting correctly so they didnt 
agree they should amend his credit file.
Regarding the current account opened in Mr Ms name, Nationwide said this had been 
opened online and used to receive the funds from the loan which were then withdrawn from 
the account over the following weeks.
Mr M didnt agree so he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator said he could see funds to redeem the loan had been paid in. But that 
theyd been credited to the wrong account as theyd been deposited to Mr Ms current 
account rather than using the different account details hed been given by Nationwide. And 
because he was satisfied Mr M had been made aware funds needed to be paid to a specific 
account (which was a different account using his loan account number as a reference), he 
didnt think Nationwide had made an error by not redeeming the loan.
Our Investigator also said Mr M had continued to receive statements for both his loan and 
current accounts since 2017. He said had he opened these they wouldve alerted him that 
something was wrong.
Mr M said hed never asked for a separate current account to be opened alongside his loan. 
He didnt agree it was fair, having been into a branch of Nationwide to confirm everything 
was ok in 2017, his loan wasnt repaid as hed requested.
Because of his personal circumstances at the time Mr M said hed not opened any post sent 
to him from Nationwide. He believed he no longer held a relationship with them, so instead 
hed just destroyed any letters he received.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and because Mr M remained unhappy, his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels strongly about what happened here and Im sorry to hear hes been 
going through a difficult time. However, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment; Im 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr M made to Nationwide in May 2017. I think the advisor was clear 
when giving Mr M instructions on how to redeem his loan.
The advisor provided a specific sort code and account number which was different to either 
Mr Ms current account or loan. They added that Mr Ms loan account details needed to be 
added as a reference when the transfer was made. I understand Mr M didnt make the 
payment personally, but Im satisfied Nationwide did everything they needed to do to allow 
Mr M to redeem his loan correctly.
Mr M says he was told by the advisor on that call that theyd pick the payment up as full 
settlement of his loan. And had the payment been made to the account details specified Id 
have expected that to have been the case. But the funds werent paid to the details Mr M 
had been provided, instead they were paid directly into his current account. So the 
instructions given by Nationwide werent followed. Therefore the loan wasnt paid off and the 
balance remained outstanding.
Each month the loan repayment was debited from the funds in the current account. I dont 
see any reason why Nationwide wouldve known there was a problem as the repayments 
were being made each month as per the loan agreement. I also think its important to say 
that these are self-managed accounts so Nationwide would have no reason to notice over 
the years that there might be a problem. It was only when the funds in the current account 
ran out that the issue became apparent.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms comments that he visited the branch shortly after the 
payment to redeem the loan was made. He says he was told everything had been sorted. 
Whilst I dont disbelieve Mr M, I simply cannot say for sure what conversation occurred at the 
time.
And in any case Mr M continued to receive statements for both his current account and loan 
right up until April 2021 when Nationwide let him know hed defaulted on his loan payment.
Mr M may have had his reasons for not wanting to open mail from Nationwide. But even if he 
was told that things had been sorted, Im satisfied they provided him with sufficient 
information over the course of four years to make him aware his loan had not been repaid in 
2017. The statements provided to Mr M also showed he was continuing to pay the monthly 
loan payment from his current account also held with Nationwide.
Mr M has since said hed repay the outstanding balance on his loan if Nationwide amended 
his credit file to remove any adverse data the misunderstanding mightve caused. 
Nationwide havent agreed to do this as they say they have a responsibility to report an 
accurate reflection of the history of the loan. I agree that is the case and whilst I think this does appear to be an unfortunate misunderstanding, I dont think Nationwide have done 
anything wrong here.
Because of this I dont think Nationwide have an obligation to change the credit file data they 
have reported, and I dont think they need to do anything to put things right.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied Nationwide have acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman