DRN-3345887
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels. 
He is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in October 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. It is also alleged that the 
installer caused £200 of damage to Mr Cs home during the installation.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
At first, Ikano accepted this opinion. But it later changed its mind, and argued that this 
complaint should not be upheld after all. It provided a copy of the sales contract (which it had 
not provided before), and said that this document had made it clear that the panels would 
not be self-funding. Since no agreement could be reached, the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures indicating a range, of 
which the higher figure is £294.23. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some 
fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is £5,000, payable over 120 months, or 
ten years. This document was signed by Mr C immediately below those figures, and so 
I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr C could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £500 each year. That is nearly twice the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, 
I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr C about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
I have asked the CMC for evidence of the alleged damage, but I have not received any. In 
the absence of evidence to support this allegation, I am not minded to uphold that complaint 
point either.
Responses to my provisional findings
The CMC did not accept my provisional decision. It made the following arguments:
The adjudicator had upheld the complaint based on the evidence then available. My 
provisional decision had been based on new evidence submitted by Ikano (the sales 
contract). The CMC said it could not understand why I had changed the outcome 
based on that new evidence.
Mr C did not accept that the signature on the sales contract was his. In support of 
this, the CMC pointed out that his name, written in capital letters next to the 
signature, had the wrong first name, and also that this contract was a revised 
version, not the original. Mr C also said that a copy of the contract had not been left 
with him to read in his own time.
Even if Mr C had seen the contract at the time, it was not reasonable to expect him to 
have carried out the calculation I had described in my provisional decision, to work 
out that the benefits would not be enough to cover the cost of the loan. It had been 
reasonable of Mr C to rely on what the salesman had told him instead.
No sales documentation had been left with Mr C until after the solar panels were 
installed. These contained a graph showing that the panels only generated at their 
full power in the middle of the day. Mr C said he would have had second thoughts 
about buying the panels if he had seen that graph earlier.
I put the matters summarised in the second paragraph above to Ikano. Ikano said that the 
contract had been amended to take into account some shading that had not been 
considered originally. The original contract was no longer available, due to the installer being 
in liquidation. Ikano surmised that the wrong name had been written next to the signature 
due to an error on the part of the salesman, and argued that since the correct name was 
written at the top of the same document this error had no material impact on the case.
No evidence was provided of the alleged damage.
My findings
Having reconsidered this complaint, I remain of the view that I should not uphold it. I will 
explain why.
It is regrettable that after it had appeared that this complaint was going to be upheld, some 
new evidence was provided late, which resulted in the outcome changing, contrary to Mr Cs 
expectations  especially when that new evidence is something that ought to have been 
provided at the beginning of the case. But Im afraid that is not a good enough reason for me 
to uphold the complaint anyway, against the weight of the evidence. I have to take relevant 
evidence into account, and sometimes new evidence will result in new findings of fact being made, which can then result in the outcome changing. I have considered whether it would be 
fair to disregard the sales contract on the ground that it was served at such a late stage, but 
I have decided that it would not be fair to do so, since the sales contract is such an important 
document in the context of a claim under section 75.
I accept the explanation for why there is a revised contract, replacing the original. I agree 
that it seems likely that the name next to the signature was filled in by the salesman, rather 
than by the customer. But that does not mean that the salesman wrote the signature too. 
I do not think there is enough evidence to prove that the signature was forged, and on the 
balance of probabilities I do not accept that it was. It is unlikely that Mr C bought £5,000 of 
equipment without signing something for it, and I think it is more likely that, after more than 
four years, Mr C has just forgotten signing it.
I do not agree that it is unreasonable to expect a customer to see that the price of the solar 
panels is £5,000 to be repaid over ten years, and to see next to that that the most that he 
can expect to make from the panels is less than £300 a year, and to see straight away that 
the panels will cost more than they make each year. Seeing that the annual cost (not 
including interest) is a tenth of £5,000 is simply a matter of dropping one zero from that 
number. I think that can be seen immediately.
The graph in the sales documentation only illustrates what I would expect people would 
know anyway as a matter of common sense. Solar panels naturally generate the most 
energy during the sunniest hours of the day (around noon), less in the hours of dawn and 
dusk, and none at night. That graph, and the timing of when it was shown to Mr C, do not 
seem to me to be evidence of misrepresentation.
For all of these reasons, I am still not persuaded that the panels were misrepresented to 
Mr C.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the CMC, on 
behalf of Mr C, to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman