DRN-4218199
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension arrangement in 1995. 
Even though Mr B dealt with a different company at the time, Sesame Limited is now 
responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things consistent throughout this final 
decision, when referring to the business, Ill refer mainly to Sesame.
Mr B is also represented by a claims management company but for consistency Ill refer to 
its comments as coming from Mr B himself. 
What happened
Ive noted that there is very little information or documents to refer to in this case. As Ill 
explain more about later, Mr B himself can remember only very little about what happened 
and he couldnt say much about how his DB pension scheme operated or how much it 
promised to pay upon retirement. He was also only able to give brief details about how the 
pension was accrued and how long hed worked for the company which provided it. 
Similarly, the financial advice was provided by a company which is no longer trading. There 
is no doubt Sesame is now responsible for answering this complaint, and Ive noted it raised 
no jurisdiction objections in relation to the time-limits in which complaints like this should be 
brought. Sesame has been unable to say much about the DB pension, the transfer advice or 
the investments to which some of Mr Bs funds were ultimately transferred, and it has no 
records to refer to. So, as Ill explain more about later, Ive used my knowledge and 
experience and also the few documents we do have, to think about what is likely to have 
happened.
It seems Mr B approached Sesame in 1995 to discuss his pension. Information gathering 
and discussions most likely then took place and his circumstances of that time were as 
follows:
Mr B was 50 years old and married to Mrs B who was 40. They still had two 
dependent children at home at the time.
Mr B wasnt in good health. In fact, hed been made redundant and was unable to 
continue looking for work due to his poor health. He and Mrs B were on state 
benefits.
Given the limited information Ive seen, I think the entire cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) is likely to have been just over £6,000. However, I should stress that 
Mr B, Sesame nor the company now responsible for administrating the legacy DB 
scheme can confirm this.
Mr B cant remember much about this pension. He thinks it related to an occupational 
pension hed accrued with a company hed only spent a short time working for, 
possibly around two years. 
It seems he approached an independent financial adviser (IFA, but now Sesame) 
who recommended that he use the CETV to buy an annuity, take out some tax-free 
cash and use a remaining amount to invest in a with profits type fund for the future. 
This could remain invested until Mr B reached 65.
Mr B thinks he had another DB pension, but he isnt receiving any money from this 
now and cant locate any information about it. He says hes not sure if this was 
transferred and theres no evidence put forward that it was. This pension therefore 
isnt the subject of this complaint.
I think the IFA would have set out their advice about Mr Bs DB pension in a suitability report 
but we dont have access to this. I think an attitude to risk would also have been established 
for Mr B as part of the advice process and also his capacity for loss. We dont have these 
either, but in my view they ought to have both been classed as very low as Mr B appeared 
to have very little financial resources; Mr B didnt have any investment experience or 
knowledge and had no significant savings or assets Im aware of.
Mr B first complained to Sesame about its advice, in 2022. In response, Sesame denied it 
had done anything wrong. He then referred his case to our Service. One of our investigators 
looked into it and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B still doesnt agree. So, as the 
complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided in 1995. Based on the little information Ive seen I cant say 
whether the advising business was more likely to have been a previous member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO), or the Financial 
Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA).
Nevertheless, as of 1995 I think the business would have been regulated by the Personal 
Investment Authority (PIA). When the PIA took responsibility for LAUTRO and FIMBRA 
businesses in 1994, it adopted the LAUTRO and FIMBRA rules. And so, these adopted rules 
applied at the time of the advice in this case.
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Examples of the key FIMBRA rules are set out, although not limited to, those below
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant 
information concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to 
provide investment services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client 
and any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, 
which types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme was likely to have been suitable and in Mr Bs best interests. I think its more likely 
that it was, so Im not upholding his complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B.
Introductory issues
For the pension now complained of we only know so much. In his points of complaint, Mr B 
says the CETV was £2,295. I can see where this figure was obtained from, but I dont think 
this is strictly the correct CETV. This, in my view, demonstrates the difficulty in assessing 
what really happened here.
However, Ive been provided with a 1995 document from the large insurer which it looks like 
Mr Bs DB scheme was transferred to. Theres no standalone CETV mentioned in the 
document, but we know a tax-free lump sum was paid to him of around £1,519 after the 
transfer. So, I think it's fair to therefore say the total original transfer value was around 
£6,076.
It also seems an annuity was recommended as we know one was bought in 1995 and this 
cost him £2,295. The £2,295 and the £1,519 amount to £3,814 and I think the remainder 
sum of around £2,200 was probably reinvested for the future in a with profits fund. I can say 
this because as of 1999 another document shows a with profits fund had grown to over 
£4,000. This would be broadly commensurate with assumed growth rates at that time.
To be clear then, I think the CETV was moved across to a type of personal plan. And Mr B 
was likely advised to:
Take £1,519 in tax-free cash immediately
Buy and annuity for £2,295 which generated £185 per year (£163 per year for Mrs B 
if he died)
Invest around £2,200 in a with profits fund until aged 65Pay what look like modest fees of around £32.
The lack of information available
As Ive said, none of the parties has really been able to produce much information. As far as 
Sesame is concerned, I consider this to be a failing. Whilst I accept the transfer took place 
almost three decades ago, it also coincided with a substantial Pensions Review process 
which the then regulator directed firms involved in pension transfer advice to carry out. The 
Pensions Review came about in the mid-1990s and so it was around when the advice was 
given in this case. It also followed a period where many concerns had been expressed by 
the regulator and indeed within the financial industry, of widespread failures when advising 
clients to transfer away from DB schemes.
In this context, there was a well-known and widespread requirement for proper 
documentation to be kept indefinitely for obvious reasons. The Pensions Review process 
lasted several years and placed a heavy burden on firms like Sesame to go back and review 
cases where DB transfer advice had been given. So, when Sesame says now that it cant 
recover the necessary information or evidence from the time, this in my view, represents a 
failure. Ive taken this into consideration when assessing this complaint.
However, Ive noted we have no details about the DB scheme Mr B was advised to transfer 
away from. In his complaint, Mr B says he would have lost a guaranteed pension and 
spouse benefits. I do accept this to probably be correct, but I cant determine what the 
guarantees and benefits actually were. The administrators were contacted and have no 
details of the ceding scheme and it seems Mr B cant remember being told what sort of 
pension he could expect, what the normal retirement age (NRA) was or whether he could 
retire on medical grounds. 
However, these things are as they are and as hard as everyone has tried, we simply dont 
have much information. I have therefore used what we do have access to. And Ive used my 
experience and knowledge to assist me in thinking about the more likely scenarios - Ive 
seen a great number of these types of pensions and made decisions about them, so Ive 
applied this knowledge to Mr Bs situation.
Mr B situation in 1995
I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs B were probably in a worrying financial situation in 
1995. Mr B was being made redundant. They had two dependent children and they were no-
where near the ages or in a financial setting where they could comfortably suffer a 
substantial drop in regular income. They were being supported by state benefits. Also, 
although Mr B had been made redundant, the strong sense I get is that this would not have 
yielded a large pay out. Hed not worked for the company for that long and I dont think his 
earnings would have been high.
Mr B also faced substantial medical challenges which meant he physically couldnt work 
anymore and there appeared no prospect of working in the foreseeable future. So everything 
Ive seen here tends to show that this sudden and prolonged loss of income placed them in a 
serious financial situation.  Against this backdrop, Ive carefully considered whether the 
advice Mr B was given was suitable. 
Ive started from the position of the adviser and what they would have had to gain by 
advising Mr B to transfer to a particular company or plan. Mr B himself says he specifically 
sought out an adviser who could advise on all products and not just those of a particular 
company. Ive also noted the fees apparently charged to transfer were modest. So, on that basis, Ive seen nothing indicating that the adviser wanted to generate fees more than they 
wanted to provide advice that was suitable for Mr B.
The crux of the complaint is more that Mr B could have remained within his DB scheme and 
started to draw his benefits early from this because of his poor health. But as Ive said, 
despite our own efforts and those of Mr B, we havent been able to establish what options 
were actually available to Mr B in retiring so young and / or on medical grounds. Our 
investigator uncovered information from the Pensions Ombudsman dating back to 2006 
which implied the DB scheme Mr B belonged to may have had ill-health benefits enabling 
members to retire earlier than the NRA. However, I cant say how these applied to Mr Bs 
situation. For example, Ive noted from what our investigator got from the Pensions 
Ombudsman that to be granted medical retirement, there may have been a requirement for a 
full medical examination by a company appointed doctor. But the evidence here is that Mr B 
didnt undergo such an examination. I also cant say what the payable benefits were in his 
case. But in my view, they would have likely been quite small, based as they would have 
been, on a very limited amount of service. 
Also, whilst I accept Mr B had no significant experience or knowledge about pensions, I do 
feel it is more likely than not that in the course of the advice he would have seen his then 
current DB pension illustrations. In particular, I think hed have been shown the amount hed 
be able to get at the NRA and also the amount at the age of 50, which is when we know he 
was interested in accessing an income (with immediate effect). 
So, whilst DB pensions can indeed be complex, I think that in this case Mr B would have 
been able to make some very useful comparisons between the two schemes. I think he 
would, for example, have been able to see whether he could receive an immediate annual 
pension from the DB scheme. Hed have also been able to see the amount of tax-free cash 
hed have been able to get with a slightly reduced DB pension under the same 
circumstances. On the other hand, the recommended course of action was for Mr B to 
transfer away from the DB scheme, buy an annuity and also take tax-free cash. So I think 
hed have been able to compare these recommendations with the DB scheme figures. The 
only issue to additionally factor-in was that the transfer recommendation included holding a 
small amount of money back for investing in a with profits fund. 
The annuity recommended was a joint-life one and so would have had very similar 
characteristics to a DB scheme in that if Mr B had passed away then Mrs B would have 
continued to receive some small benefits. The tax-free lumps sums would have been easy to 
compare as well. What Im therefore saying here is that comparisons would have been 
relatively simple  Mr B would have been able to compare the DB scheme benefits at the 
age of 50 with what the recommended option was. All hed have to bear in mind is that the 
recommended option also involved saving a small amount for the future.
Of course, we havent seen these direct comparisons because they havent survived the 
passage of time. Ive explained that this isnt good, but I can nonetheless be confident that 
these comparisons probably existed. I dont think Mr B would have transferred away from his 
existing DB pension without having at least been presented with some basic choices and an 
elementary demonstration of the strengths and weaknesses of both schemes. 
I also think that his tax-free lump sum with the recommended option was likely to be slightly 
higher than in the DB scheme. This is often the case - it doesnt mean the pensioner gets 
more money overall, just that the tax-free upfront element can be more because the 
structure of the two schemes is different. I think this could have been appealing to Mr B in 
his difficult financial situation of that time. Ive also made a reasonable assumption that a larger annual pension - as opposed to a 
slightly reduced one and an immediate cash lump-sum - might have triggered penalties to Mr 
and Mrs B's benefit entitlements. So, a small annuity which generated only £185 per year 
was likely purchased by Mr B for this reason. In doing this, hed get a one-off larger lump 
sum and also save some investments for the future in the with profits fund.
I then considered the risk elements of the recommendation. By this I mean whether what he 
was being advised to do fell within Mr Bs overall attitude to risk which ought to have been 
very low. His obvious capacity for having no loss whatsoever also ought to have been taken 
into account by the adviser. But in this sense, I think the recommendation was probably quite 
similar to his DB scheme. Buying an annuity contained no risk and in fact, it gave Mr B a 
certainty similar to that which he already enjoyed within the DB scheme. Ive also noted that 
Mrs B stood to receive almost as much as Mr B from the annuity in the event of him dying. 
So what the recommendation was proposing seemed to match Mr Bs financial needs.
Summary
Ive said from the outset that Sesames failure to retain the historic advice information was a 
failure. Nevertheless, Ive accepted that these events were almost three decades ago and 
that Mr B himself has been unable to recall much about what happened or details of his 
ceding pension scheme.
In this context, Ive explained that its fair to make assumptions in arriving at a final decision. 
However, the assumptions Ive made are reasonable ones, based on the limited information 
and documents we do still have. Ive also used my experience and knowledge to help arrive 
at a fair decision although this can only be based on what is more likely to have happened.
In my view, there was no obvious incentive for the adviser to recommend that Mr B should 
transfer away from his DB scheme for what might be termed as spurious reasons. There 
was also the probability of Mr B being shown some easy-to-understand comparisons and 
illustrations of what his DB scheme might pay out early - versus what he could get from the 
recommendation to set up a personal type pension plan. Mr B was in financially challenging 
times. Quite understandably, he needed money straight away to support his family. I think 
the recommended option probably contained a slightly higher tax-free lump sum and a small 
enough annual annuity to not interfere with his state benefits. The recommendation also 
saved a small sum for the future, which I think was right for him. 
Given these things, I think its much more likely that the advice was suitable for him. It took a 
very, very low risk approach. And it provided a joint annuity which would have paid around 
88% of Mr Bs annual annuity to Mrs B, if Mr B died. As hed suffered major health worries, I 
think Mr B valued these things.
So, ultimately I dont think the advice was unsuitable. What Sesame advised Mr B to do 
would have had very similar characteristics to his DB scheme. But he needed some financial 
support there and then which the recommended plan gave him. It also tried to maximise his 
small pension provision by investing a remaining small sum until he reached the age of 65.
Mr B has said he knows of friends and acquaintances with larger pensions. I dont doubt 
that, but of course, his was always only ever a small pension because he hadnt contributed 
to it for very long.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.I do not require Sesame Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman