DRN-3580141
The complaint
Mrs M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua havent refunded a payment she made 
using her credit card. 
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs M says she submitted an application on behalf of her son for a 
modelling assessment. The studio, who Ill refer to as T, responded to say the application 
had been successful and invited Mrs M and her son for a modelling photoshoot to assess his 
suitability for a career in modelling. Mrs M agreed to attend the shoot and paid a £50 
refundable deposit. 
Mrs M says that immediately following the photoshoot T said that her son had passed the 
assessment and he would be suitable for modelling work. She says that T told her she would 
need to purchase a modelling package in order for her son to begin getting paid work. She 
says that she told T that she didnt understand anything about the industry and therefore 
needed someone to manage her sons career and arrange the paid work for her. She says T 
agreed to do this if she signed up to a package worth £3,050. 
Mrs M agreed to enter into a contract for the package on this basis. She says she was told 
they would be able to find her son paid work within six weeks, which would then quickly 
repay what she had paid for the modelling package. The contract she signed said that she 
had agreed to purchase: 50 photos on a disc, 20 printed images, a digital Z card, and an 
online portfolio. Mrs M paid £3,000 using her NewDay credit card to sign up to the package, 
the additional £50 was taken from the deposit she had already paid to secure the 
photoshoot. 
Around four weeks later Mrs M had an email exchange with T. She said that no work had so 
far been sourced for her son and she said that she was assured someone would be doing 
this on their behalf and that is why she purchased the £3,000 package. T said that it hadnt 
promised to find her son any work, only that it would give them some advice as to how to 
find work. Mrs M asked for her money back as she felt the package had been 
misrepresented to her. When T didnt respond, Mrs M contacted NewDay to see if they could 
help her get her money back. 
NewDay initiated a chargeback to try and retrieve the payment Mrs M made. However, T 
defended the chargeback claim. NewDay said that because it was defended showing that 
the goods and services Mrs M had agreed to buy had been provided there was nothing 
further it could do. Mrs M complained to NewDay about this outcome, but NewDay didnt 
uphold her complaint.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought NewDay ought to have 
pursued the chargeback further and had it done so, it was likely the chargeback would have 
eventually succeeded. On this basis she recommended NewDay refund the £3,000 Mrs M 
paid, adding 8% simple interest. 
NewDay didnt agree. In summary, it said that Mrs M signed for the contract with T which 
was provided as part of Ts chargeback defence. This showed the goods and services shed 
agreed to purchase and therefore the chargeback couldnt proceed further as Mrs M had 
accepted Ts terms of sale.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay attempted to recover Mrs Ms payment by initiating a chargeback through the 
relevant card scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers (e.g. NewDay) and merchants (e.g. T). In certain circumstances the 
scheme provides a way for NewDay to ask for a payment Mrs M made to be refunded either 
in full or in part. Those circumstances include (but not limited to) where the goods or 
services arent supplied, as described, or are misrepresented by the merchant Mrs M paid. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. T can defend any chargeback made by NewDay, 
which is what happened here. T provided a copy of the signed contract which set out what 
Mrs M had agreed to purchase and on what terms. Where a chargeback is defended, 
NewDay can make a further presentment to the defence and ultimately it could have asked 
the card scheme to arbitrate if the chargeback continued to be defended, but it chose not to 
do so here. This was because it said that it couldnt pursue the chargeback further due to the 
nature of Ts defence. 
Having considered the circumstances here, I dont think NewDay have acted fairly when 
trying to recover Mrs Ms payment. This is because I think it could and ought to have done 
more to robustly pursue the chargeback further. 
NewDay said the contract Mrs M signed (provided by T in defence to the chargeback) 
showed what she had agreed to. While the contract did show what Mrs M had agreed to, it 
doesnt automatically follow that the package wasnt misrepresented and NewDay appears 
to have missed this point entirely. It seems to have simply declined to take the claim further 
on the basis Mrs M signed a contract, whereas the crux of her dispute was that what shed 
agreed as part of that contract wasnt provided and/or was misrepresented. Ts chargeback 
defence didnt demonstrate it had provided what was agreed.  
Further, NewDay says that Mrs M didnt provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the 
modelling package had been misrepresented to her, nor did she ask them for assistance in 
what further evidence she could provide. But this isnt right. I can see that on the original 
online claim form Mrs M completed for NewDay she said she had additional evidence such 
as screenshots of emails, but the form didnt let her upload them. She asked for help in 
providing that evidence. I cant see that NewDay provided any assistance to her or that 
Mrs Ms further evidence was included as part of the chargeback. 
The emails Mrs M referred to make it clear that she complained to T about not receiving paid 
modelling work for her son as promised. She also asked for her money back from T, but it 
failed to respond to her. I think this demonstrates that Mrs M was under the impression she 
had been promised paid work as part of the package and it wasnt provided. Further, the 
initial emails she received from T prior to the photoshoot said we act as a first stepping 
stone to help people on their way in the modelling industry and we aim to help you 
establish the following:  how to get paid work in the modelling industry and If you are 
successful on the day and [we] believe that you could get paid modelling work, you will be 
invited to have a consultation.  I think what T was therefore offering was clearly aimed at applicants wishing to get paid 
modelling work. Mrs Ms son was successful on the day of the photoshoot and had a 
consultation with T. It was during this consultation that Mrs M says that in exchange for 
entering a contract for a package worth £3,000, T would arrange and manage paid modelling 
work for her son.
What Mrs M has described as being agreed has been consistent throughout. Ive found what 
shes described to be persuasive, not least of all because the actions she took (in 
complaining to T and specifically what she complained about) are consistent with what she 
says happened during the consultation and are consistent with how the services were 
described by T prior to her attending the photoshoot. Further, Im satisfied that Mrs M 
wouldnt have paid such a significant sum of money for what would otherwise have been 
simply a series of photos. I think she did so because she was led to believe that the package 
included guaranteed paid modelling work for her son. 
What Mrs M has evidenced and described is consistent with the types of modelling scams 
which have been publicised online and in the media. This service has also seen examples of 
these types of modelling scams previously whose circumstances are similar to those 
described by Mrs M. 
Overall, I dont think NewDay did everything it reasonably could to give Mrs Ms chargeback 
the best chance of succeeding. It doesnt appear to have assisted her in providing suitable 
evidence to counter Ts defence of the chargeback. Further, it seems to have simply chosen 
not to pursue the chargeback further because T provided a copy of a signed contract. The 
existence of a signed contract doesnt mean the services were provided or that there werent 
other goods or services that were promised in addition to what was listed on the contract. 
Indeed, Mrs Ms emails between her and T provide persuasive written evidence to suggest 
paid modelling work was also included in the package. 
Given that what Mrs M had described had the hallmarks of a well known scam, and she did 
have in her possession evidence which suggested T had misrepresented its services to her, 
I think NewDay ought to have robustly pursued the chargeback further. 
NewDays actions have unfairly prevented Mrs M from potentially recovering the payment 
she made. Given what Ive set out above about the circumstances and evidence surrounding 
the contract, I think had the chargeback been pursued as far as possible I think its most 
likely it would have succeeded. I think NewDay therefore ought to refund the payment Mrs M 
made, adding 8% simple interest per year to the refund. 
Ive thought about whether Mrs M should only receive a partial refund for any goods/services 
she did receive under the contract. However, I cant see that she ever did receive any of the 
goods or service set out in the contract  T provided no evidence of this in its chargeback 
defence. But even if she did receive some or all of the photos, I dont think shes received 
any meaningful benefit from these. This is because the purpose of her entering into the 
contract was to receive paid modelling work, not to receive photos and T set out the photos 
were the necessary pre-cursor for receiving paid work. I therefore dont consider it necessary 
to make any deduction to the refund.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua 
to:
Refund Mrs M £3,000, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date NewDay re-
debited her account to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman