The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs D applied for a mortgage with the Halifax. In 2009, they bought a 
PPI policy.  The policy cost £27.63 a month and, if they'd made a successful claim, would 
have paid up to 133% of Mr and Mrs D's monthly mortgage payments for 12 months if they'd 
lost their jobs or been off work sick.
Mr and Mrs D think the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs D didn't agree. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
I've decided this policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs D had a choice about 
buying the policy. Mr and Mrs D say that at no point during their conversation with Halifax 
was PPI ever mentioned. And they say that they were never told that PPI had been added to 
the account. So I've thought about what Mr and Mrs D have said alongside the other 
information I have about the sale.
Based on what I've seen, although Mr and Mrs D applied for the mortgage in 2006 - and 
started making the monthly repayments in 2007 - they didn't apply for the policy until 2009. It 
looks as though Mr and Mrs D applied for the policy in a meeting at a branch. The other 
paperwork I've seen also suggests that before they applied for the policy Halifax asked them 
questions about their circumstances, including whether they wanted PPI cover. And when 
the policy started, the insurer sent Mr and Mrs D a welcome letter explaining that they'd 
been accepted for cover, and this also said the policy was optional. So though Mr and Mrs D 
say they didn't know they'd been sold the policy, I think it's more likely that they knew they 
had a choice - and agreed to buy it.
DRN-1054651Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and it appears to have been right for them 
based on what I know about their circumstances at the time. Though Mr and Mrs D both got 
some pay from their employers if they'd been off work sick, this insurance would have meant 
their mortgage payments would have been paid for up to a year if they'd made a successful 
claim. Their sick pay, by contrast, reduced - in Mr D's case after six months, and in Mrs D's 
case after three months. And Mr and Mrs D don't appear to be affected by any of the main 
things the policy didn't cover.
Halifax also had to make sure Mr and Mrs D got the information they'd need to work out for 
themselves if they wanted the policy. It's possible this information wasn't as clear as it could 
have been. But Mr and Mrs D appear to have wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. So I don't think better information 
about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
I've thought about everything else Mr and Mrs D have said. In particular, Mr and Mrs D 
say they'd never have needed to take time off work for more than a week. But I think the 
whole point of insurance is to protect against unexpected events. The PPI protected a 
mortgage - their home was at risk if they couldn't meet the repayments. So what they've said 
doesn't change my decision.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman