DRN-1418789
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI in October 1996 (with the mortgage and PPI going live in 
February 1997) at the same time as arranging their mortgage in a branch of Lloyds. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds has said that the PPI was taken out during a meeting. Mr and Mrs B have said that 
they need proof of this as that is not their recollection. But Mr and Mrs B originally told us 
that they had no recollection of where the sale took place. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage 
application form in which the PPI is first mentioned. It is the sort of form that is typically 
completed in branch during a mortgage interview. Mr and Mrs B signed the form on 15 
October 1996. A Lloyds staff member has also signed the form on the same date, which 
suggests to me that the adviser and Mr and Mrs B must have been together in a meeting.
Mr and Mrs B have said they were led to believe that the PPI was a mandatory part of the 
mortgage lending. Looking at the mortgage application form I can see that there is a 
separate section for PPI with yes and no boxes that could be ticked to either request or 
decline the policy. The yes box has been ticked. They could have answered no to the 
question about whether or not they wanted PPI if that was their preference.
Its clear from what Mr and Mrs B have said that they dont have any strong recollection of 
events, which isnt surprising given how long ago the sale was. From the wording and layout 
of the documentation, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have known that they were being 
given a choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Lloyds says that this was an advised sale. This holds Lloyds to a higher standard than if it 
had been a non-advised sale because, in recommending the policy to Mr and Mrs B, it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.The policy benefit was set up to cover Mr B for 70% and Mrs B for 30%. I can see from the 
mortgage application that Mr B was earning over double that of Mrs B at the time, so it 
makes sense that the policy should be set to provide much greater cover for Mr B. That 
suggests that there w some discussion about the best way to tailor the policy to meet Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B would each have received six weeks full pay, followed by six weeks half pay 
from their employer if they were off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this 
and potentially for much longer than they would have received full pay for. And Mr and Mrs B 
havent mentioned any other means, such as savings, that they could fall back on if one of 
them was sick. So I consider they had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it 
at what would have been a difficult time.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr and Mrs B with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. I consider that they must 
have known something about the policy  that it would cover their mortgage repayments if 
they were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think 
they would have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
The mortgage offer letter mentions the monthly cost of the policy twice, so I think that Mr and 
Mrs B would have known what theyd be paying for it. And it also details the benefit split as 
being 70/30 between Mr and Mrs B.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But I dont consider that Mr and Mrs B would 
have been affected by any of those things. It is correct to say that Lloyds doesnt have a 
copy of the policy document for the point of sale and has provided the nearest version it has, 
which is from November 1998. But whilst policy terms and conditions do vary, the main 
exclusions tend to be broadly similar and pertain to things like pre-existing medical 
conditions and being self-employed. There is nothing about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time which would lead me to conclude that they would have fallen foul of any of the main 
exclusions and limitations in the policy.  As I think they had an interest in the PPI and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong 
during the sale, so theres nothing that Lloyds needs to do to put things right. It follows that I 
do not uphold the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold.
On another point, Mr and Mrs B say they were prevented from making a claim in 1999 when 
Mr B was made redundant because they were led to believe that Mr B wasnt covered under 
the policy. Im unclear as to whether Mr and Mrs B were told this by the lender or the 
underwriter. However, Mr and Mrs B may wish to consider making a retrospective claim to 
the underwriter now.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman