DRN-3885056
The complaint
Mr O complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) allowed him to open a CFD trading 
account. In brief, he feels it shouldve had checks in place that wouldve highlighted that the 
account wasnt appropriate for him. Hes explained that he has several conditions that 
impacted his ability to understand how the account worked and its risks.
What happened
Mr O opened his account in April 2020 and traded for a couple of weeks, during which he 
incurred losses of around £17,000. Soon after, he requested information from T212 about 
his account opening process, indicating he needed it because he intended to make a 
complaint. He contacted this service towards the end of 2020 and the matter was referred 
back to T212, which then issued Mr O with its final response on the matter.
T212 explained it wasnt upholding the complaint, primarily on the basis that Mr O had been 
provided with multiple general risk warnings and had also been taken through the required 
appropriateness assessment process, in accordance with the rules set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
It explained that this assessment had determined that a lack of knowledge and experience of 
CFD trading meant the account was likely to be inappropriate for Mr O, so in accordance 
with the rules hed been given an additional specific warning. Mr O had then actively clicked 
to confirm his understanding and his desire to trade with real money. T212 stressed that it 
had not been aware of any conditions that mightve impacted upon his ability to understand 
the information presented to him.
Our investigator then considered the matter and reached a different conclusion  she felt the 
complaint should be upheld.
She acknowledged that T212 had carried out the appropriateness assessment and had 
given Mr O an additional warning. But she went on to highlight the FCAs Principles for 
Businesses, particularly 2.1.1.6 A, which say that a firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly. She also noted the guidance in COBS at 10.3.3 (G), 
which says that where a customer wants to go ahead and use a product or service despite 
being given a warning, it was for the business to consider whether to do so having regard to 
the circumstances.
The investigator felt that a consideration of what T212 knew about Mr Os lack of knowledge 
and experience of CFD trading (along with what it knew about his wider circumstances  that 
he was unemployed and on a low income) shouldve led it to either not allow him to go 
ahead and trade CFDs, or, failing that, at least to seek further information from him before 
doing so. And she felt that if T212 had sought further information, it was likely Mr Os 
difficulties wouldve become apparent. In short, the investigator didnt think that the 
appropriateness assessment alone had provided T212 with sufficient information about 
Mr Os circumstances for it to have paid due regard to his interests in allowing him to trade.
The investigator noted T212s concerns that it wouldve potentially been acting illegally if it 
had prevented him from trading simply on the grounds of his conditions. But she stressed 
that her view was more that if T212 had asked Mr O additional questions, it would likely have 
led to it gaining an understanding of how the overall challenges he faced mightve impaired 
his judgement when applying for and running the account. And, in any event, these potential 
challenges werent the only relevant issues  there was also Mr Os underlying lack of 
knowledge and experience, and apparent inability to withstand losses.
The investigator concluded that Mr O hadnt fully understood the account and risks and that 
in failing to take additional steps to understand more about his circumstances, T212 hadnt 
shown due regard for his interests. She recommended it reimburse the deposits Mr O had 
made to the account, minus any withdrawals.
T212 didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in brief:
It had given Mr O sufficient warnings and information and had treated him fairly  no 
differently to any other customer.
Although the investigator had said that Mr O had difficulties with the written words, 
hed been able to email T212 to request information in pursuit of his complaint. Hed 
also been able to open and close positions on the account.
The investigators view had placed a greater level of responsibility on T212 than 
COBS intended, as it was only required to carry out the assessment and issue the 
additional warning.
If Mr O had wanted to discuss the account opening process before proceeding, he 
couldve done so.
Ultimately, he made his own conscious, informed decisions to trade.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to her change her view. She felt that no explanation had
been given by T212 as to how the opening of the account had been in Mr Os interests,
given what it knew of his circumstances at the point of the account opening. She said there
was a difference between simply providing information and acting in the interests of a 
customer, and she reiterated that a conversation with Mr O was likely to have brought his
difficulties to light.
T212 continued to disagree. It remained strongly of the view that the investigators
consideration of the matter absolved Mr O of any responsibility for his trading and losses. It
questioned what more it couldve done and stressed again that there was no requirement for
it to have taken specific further action following the issuing of the additional warning to Mr O
- although it had provided further information about risk. It noted that Mr O couldve made
contact if hed been uncertain of any aspect of the service, or he could simply have decided
himself not to proceed.
T212 said Mr Os application had been effectively declined, with the issuing of the
appropriateness warning. But he had accepted it and actively chosen to continue. If it was
concluded that T212 ought to have prevented him from trading, equal weight should be
given to what Mr O ought to have done  for instance, to have informed T212 more about his 
circumstances or sought assistance.
The investigators view remained unchanged, so the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that, having reviewed the matter afresh, I 
had reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I 
said, in part:
Its agreed that T212 acted correctly up to the point of it issuing Mr O with an additional
warning following its assessment of his (lack of) knowledge and experience of CFD trading.As noted, there is a regulatory requirement in this respect  specifically at COBS 10.3.1R,
which says that 
If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm
must warn the client.
I accept that once Mr O then confirmed that he wished to proceed there was no further
requirement for T212 to question him, obtain additional information, or give any further
warning to him. But Im nevertheless conscious that COBS sets out guidance at 10.3.3G that
says 
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning
by the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the
circumstances.
By clicking on the I confirm button on the appropriateness warning, Mr O was effectively
asking to go ahead with a transaction  to open the account and trade.
As Ive said, there was no absolute requirement that T212 do anything in particular or heed
this specific guidance. But it did, as a regulated business, have an overarching responsibility
to consider the FCAs Principles for Businesses, set out in the FCAs handbook, which are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system
(PRIN 1.1.2G).
Principles 2 and 6 are:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
And there is also, at COBS 2.1.1R:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Having carried out the account application process and required assessment for Mr O, T212
was aware that, in addition to him lacking knowledge and experience of CFD trading, he was 
also unemployed and had very low (possibly even zero) income and savings. At this point I
think that it ought reasonably, in line with Principle 6, to have had regard for Mr Os interests
and either declined to open the account and let him trade or taken further steps to contact
him to find out some more information about his background and circumstances.
T212 has said, as Ive highlighted above, that it didnt have to take these extra steps. It has
focussed on Mr Os personal responsibility for his actions and decisions and the fact that he
was provided with numerous warnings about the risks involved. It has said that if he was
unsure about anything, he couldve sought help and guidance.
But T212 is a regulated business and must have regard for the responsibilities that come
with that. Clearly it isnt the intention of the regulation to prevent all consumers who lack
knowledge and experience of CFDs from trading, otherwise thats what COBS would say.
But the very existence of the guidance at 10.3.3 is an acknowledgement that there will be
occasions where consideration of the consumers circumstances as a whole ought to resultin them not being allowed to go ahead and trade. And I think that is an entirely reasonable
situation from the perspective of a business having to have regard for consumers interests
and treating them fairly.
Further, the matter of consumers failing an appropriateness assessment but still wishing to
trade has been subject of wide-ranging regulatory scrutiny. In a Dear CEO letter to firms
from the FCA in 2016 one issue of concern raised was that:
We saw that many firms had not established a process to assess whether clients
who fail the appropriateness assessment (and who have received a risk warning
letter), but who nonetheless wish to trade in CFDs should be allowed to proceed with
CFD transactions.
This was followed by an FCA review published in June 2017 - CFD firms fail to meet our
expectations on appropriateness assessments. Under the heading Failure to evaluate
whether failed applicants who fail the appropriateness assessment should be allowed to
make CFD transactions it said:
This finding relates to a failure to evaluate adequately whether applicants who fail 
the appropriateness test (and receive a risk warning) but who nonetheless wish to 
trade in CFDs, should be allowed to proceed with CFD transactions (COBS 10.3.3G).
In most cases firms didnt give meaningful consideration to whether the applicant
should still be permitted to proceed. This allowed prospective clients to override the
appropriateness assessment and risk warning and proceed to trade without
substantive deliberation.
I note also the European Securities and Markets Authoritys (ESMA) Questions and
Answers document from 2016, relating to the provision of CFDs and other speculative
products to retail investors under MiFID (which the FCA review referenced). This said, in
respect of how a business offering CFDs or other speculative products should consider other
information that may be available relating to the clients situation, that NCAs (National
Competent Authorities) 
may reasonably expect the firm to not permit a prospective client to proceed if, for
example, the firm is in possession of information that indicates potential vulnerability,
e.g. due to the clients age and/or financial situation.
I recognise, as before, that none of this created an absolute requirement that T212 or any
business must take specific extra steps when a consumer fails an appropriateness 
assessment (beyond issuing the additional warning). But I think what it does do is suggest
the type of potential actions that are relevant to a consideration of whether T212 is likely to
have met its regulatory obligations to have regard for Mr Os interest and to treat him fairly.
Ive not seen that T212 gave any consideration to Mr Os circumstances (in particular his 
financial situation that indicated a potential vulnerability) once it had issued him with the 
additional warning. If it had done so, I think it would, and certainly should, have declined to 
offer him an account. Alternatively, it couldve sought more information from him about his 
background and understanding. However, I think if it had engaged with him in this way, its 
highly unlikely it wouldve concluded that it was appropriate to allow him to go ahead and 
trade CFDs.
I cant see that there was anything Mr O could have said or provided that wouldve
outweighed what T212 already knew about him and his circumstances. In fact, I think it likely
that the challenges he faced as a result of his conditions wouldve become apparent andsimply underscored further the fact that CFD trading wasnt appropriate for him. Either way,
the end result wouldve been that Mr O wouldnt have proceeded to trade CFDs with T212
and wouldnt have incurred the losses.
I accept theres an inevitable element of subjectivity in all this. Were not dealing solely with
hard and fast rules and a straightforward determination of whether theyve been followed or
not. But looking at the circumstances in the round, I find Im satisfied Mr Os complaint
should be upheld. In my view he clearly fell into a category of consumer whose best interests
wouldve been served by T212 having regard for the wide-ranging regulatory guidance and
going beyond the additional appropriateness warning to actively consider whether he should
be allowed to trade. And I think in all likelihood such consideration wouldve led to him not
being allowed to.
Mr O accepted my provisional decision. T212 provided some further comments, saying, in 
brief:
It accepted the matter involved an element of subjectivity but felt I was applying a 
higher than reasonable level.   
If no subjectivity was applied, it would clearly have complied with all relevant rules. 
And subjectivity also provoked a number of what ifs? that led to a loss of context.
Id commented several times that the rules had been followed and thered been no 
finding that Principles 2 and 6 had been breached.
Id acknowledged that a lack of experience and knowledge shouldnt preclude 
someone from trading and although COBS 10.3.3 implied there would be 
circumstances where a consumer shouldnt be able to go ahead and trade, there 
were no specific thresholds. 
My comments regarding the Dear CEO letter were noted, but there was no definition 
of meaningful consideration and it cant be reasonable for any consideration that is 
given to be adjudged as not meaningful simply because of subsequent losses. 
Id further confirmed there was no absolute requirement for T212 to take extra steps. 
In any event, there were checks in place that initially highlighted that the account 
might not be appropriate for Mr O and he was warned of this.
The only point against T212 was that, despite compliance with the rules, T212 hadnt 
gone far enough. 
It couldnt have considered Mr Os conditions as it wasnt made aware of them and it 
was subsequently confirmed that he could make decisions and had a support 
network. 
If Mr O didnt understand any aspect of the account or trading, he couldve asked for 
help or chosen not to proceed. 
Hed placed many trades making losses without stopping and instead had chosen to 
continue.
Given the extent of T212s acknowledged compliance and Mr Os willingness to 
accept the risk and proceed, T212 shouldnt be held responsible for his losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken careful note of all that T212 has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
having done so, I remain of the view set out previously that the complaint should be upheld, 
and compensation paid to Mr O. 
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision, and as T212 further highlighted, considering the evidence and circumstances in this case unavoidably involves a degree of subjectivity. 
The matter doesnt begin and end solely with the application of a finite set of rules. Theres 
clearly more to consider than that, as illustrated by the existence of the aforementioned 
COBS and other regulatory guidance. And such guidance is one of the things that the FCAs 
DISP rules, which govern how we determine complaints, say I will take account of when 
considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. 
Theres no dispute that T212 applied the relevant COBS rules in assessing Mr Os 
knowledge and experience and in doing so, issued him with an additional warning. But Ive 
not seen that it took account of any of the guidance and went beyond this in any way. It 
doesnt appear that any consideration was given to whether Mr O  unemployed, with no 
knowledge and experience of CFD trading and potentially zero, or at best minimal, income or 
savings  should be allowed to go ahead and trade having regard to these circumstances. 
Given the wide-ranging regulatory guidance referred to in my provisional decision, issued 
prior to Mr O opening his account in 2020, I find Im unable to conclude that T212 can be 
said to have met it obligations under Principle 6 and paid due regard to the interests of Mr O. 
I dont think it can be reasonably concluded that in simply issuing him with the same warning 
that wouldve been issued to any potential customer who gave the same answers to the 
knowledge and experience questions  regardless of what other information was known 
about them  it was treating him fairly.  
Businesses are entitled to rely upon information provided by a potential customer and if Mr O 
had given misleading information that painted him as a financially secure individual then the 
situation would be different. But he clearly told T212 by way of the application process that 
he was unemployed and had minimal income/savings. And, despite possessing this 
information about his financial circumstances, Ive not seen that T212 gave any 
consideration to whether he should be allowed to trade. 
I note what T212 has said about Mr Os own responsibilities and the fact that he didnt tell it 
about his conditions  saying that he couldve made contact with T212 to ask any questions 
he had, seek support or explain his conditions. But equally T212 couldve contacted him and, 
given its regulatory obligations and what it knew about him, I think it shouldve done. I 
appreciate what its said about  as an on-line, execution-only service  this not being a 
feature of its business model. But there was the other straightforward option available to it, to 
simply not open the account and not allow Mr O to go ahead.  
Clearly if Mr O had not been able to go ahead and trade, he wouldnt have incurred his 
losses. And, as I said before, I think if he had been asked to provide further information I 
cant see there was anything he couldve said or provided that wouldve been likely to 
support a decision to allow him to go ahead and trade in the circumstances. 
So, either way, I think that if T212 had given regard to Mr Os interests and the wide-ranging 
guidance, in light of its over-arching regulatory responsibilities, he wouldnt have lost the 
money he did. 
Putting things right
Trading 212 UK Limited must reimburse Mr O with the amounts paid to his CFD trading 
account, minus any withdrawals made. As noted, I understand this sum to be approximately 
£17,000. 
I make no direction for interest to be added to this amount, as it appears Mr O was seeking 
to invest the money in some way, so I dont think it would be fair to also award any sort of 
guaranteed return.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Trading 212 
UK Limited to pay compensation to Mr O as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman