DRN-2937749
The complaint
 Mr J complains about how Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (Toyota) dealt with matters 
when he tried to enter into a finance agreement for a used car. 
What happened
 Around February 2020, Mr J spoke to a car dealership with intentions of acquiring a car. He 
said much of the communication was by email and telephone. He was interested in acquiring 
a used car at a cash price of £17,100. 
A finance application for a hire purchase agreement was made and accepted by Toyota. Mr 
J paid £250 as a deposit to secure the car and for it to be delivered to the dealership in 
March 2020. Mr J said he intended on entering into the finance agreement and driving the 
car away on the same day he would visit the dealership so he bought a temporary car 
insurance policy to allow him to do so. 
The car was transported to the dealership but before Mr J was able to attend, they were 
required to close due to the nationwide lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Once the dealership re-opened in June 2020, conversations re-commenced about the car. 
Mr J said he was told if he still wanted it, he would now be required to pay £225 per month. 
He was unhappy about this as he said he was previously told the monthly payments would 
be £187. However Toyota dispute this, they said the proposed finance application in March 
2020 was for £192 per month. 
Unhappy with the changes to the monthly payments he would be required to pay if he 
entered into the finance agreement, Mr J told the dealership he no longer wanted the car 
and he asked for the £250 deposit to be refunded. The money was returned although there 
was a delay in doing so. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr J complained to Toyota about a number of issues. In 
summary, he said:
- He had been told the monthly payments would be £187, not £192 and he never 
received a copy of the finance proposal;
- In June 2020, he was told the monthly payments would be increased to £225 but he 
was never made aware of this prior to the Covid-19 lockdown;
- The dealership held onto his £250 deposit from February to June 2020 and there was 
a delay in it being refunded; 
- The car registration on the finance proposal differed to that shown on the deposit 
receipt and he questioned whether the car was reserved for him;
- A hard credit check had been carried out and he wanted this removed from his 
credit file;
- He wanted compensation for loss of time and the embarrassment caused.
In response to his complaint, Toyota said there was no evidence of £187 monthly payments 
being agreed prior to the lockdown and should Mr J enter into the finance agreement, the 
monthly payments would increase as the car he planned to part exchange had decreased in 
value. They also said the delay to return the deposit by the dealership was due to an 
administrative error. However as a gesture of goodwill, Toyota agreed to remove the credit 
check from Mr Js file and pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed Toyota had dealt with matters fairly 
but Mr J disagreed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think Toyota has done enough to put things right.  
Hire purchase agreements, like the one Mr J planned on entering into with Toyota are 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Although Mr J didnt enter into the 
finance agreement, given a finance application had been approved by Toyota, I can consider 
this complaint against them.
At this point, I would to like to stress whilst Ive carefully considered the information and 
evidence submitted by both parties, for the purposes of this decision, I will only focus on the 
key issues that I consider central to the overall outcome. This means, I may not make 
reference to each of Mr Js complaint points, but I can assure him Ive taken into account 
what hes said. 
 
The proposed finance agreement
What was told to Mr J about the contractual monthly payments in March 2020 by the 
dealerships salesperson is in dispute. On one hand, Mr J said he was told it would be £187 
per month but Toyota said it was £192.
I wasnt party to such conversations and Mr J said much of the discussions were by email. 
Toyota nor the dealership have been able to provide these emails and neither has Mr J so I 
cant say with any certainty what was said or agreed. However Ive seen a copy of the 
finance application form and I can see it was approved by Toyota outlining that there would 
be 47 monthly payments of £192 followed by a final payment of £8,265. I know Mr J said he 
never received a copy of the same but given he said he intended to enter into the agreement 
and drive away with the car when he visited the dealership, I think its more likely than not, 
he was told the monthly payments would be £192. There is insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate Mr J was told by the dealership that the payments would be £187.
Mr J has commented that hes unhappy about the hard credit check being carried out and it 
being recorded on his credit file, he also said he didnt give his authority for one to be carried 
out. Its clear Mr J intended to acquire the car via a finance agreement and Im satisfied he 
knew the finance application had been approved hence why he intended to acquire the car 
the same day he visited the dealership. On that basis, I think its reasonable to expect when 
applying for finance, especially for the significant sum as was here (over £15,000), that 
Toyota will need to carry out a number of checks when considering the finance application 
before agreeing to lend. Generally speaking, I would expect one of these checks to be a hard credit check, this is to check a persons financial circumstances. Therefore I cant say 
Toyota did anything wrong by carrying one out and on balance I believe Mr J gave his 
authority for this to happen. Having done so, it was reasonable for Toyota to record it on his 
credit file. This is common practice in instances of lending applications with financial 
businesses and its irrespective of whether or not the lending actually takes place. Although I 
find Toyota were entitled to record it, as a gesture of goodwill, theyve agreed to remove the 
credit check from Mr Js credit file so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. 
I note Mr Js comments about the difference between the car registrations shown on the 
finance application and the deposit receipt. However, I can see the right registration is noted 
on the finance application which I consider to be the most important document. I suspect the 
incorrect registration on the deposit receipt to be an administrative error and it would appear 
the right car was delivered to the dealership in March 2020.
The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic
The UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 
pandemic which caused many businesses such as the dealership to temporarily close. I 
understand this was right after the car was delivered meaning Mr J wasnt able to acquire 
the car. While I appreciate he wouldve been disappointed, this was an unforeseen event 
which was beyond the control of the dealership or Toyota so I cant say they shouldve done 
anything more in such exceptional circumstances. 
Mr J said when he spoke to the dealership upon them re-opening in June 2020, he was told 
the monthly payments would be increased to £225. Toyota has explained although the cash 
price of the car hadnt changed, the value of Mr Js car for part exchange had decreased. 
They said this was due to car depreciation meaning the advance payment would be less 
resulting in the increased proposed monthly payments. Given valuations for part exchanges 
are generally valid for a set period of time and cars do depreciate, I believe Toyotas 
explanations are reasonable so I cant say theyve done anything wrong. Its up to the 
dealership as to how much they are prepared to pay for the part exchange and I appreciate 
the uncertainty of the Covid-19 pandemic may have had an impact on this. Again, given the 
unprecedented nature of the Covid-19 pandemic, I dont believe it wouldve been reasonably 
foreseeable by the dealership that they would be required to close for such an extended 
period of time meaning the value of the part exchange would significantly decrease.   
The return of the deposit
Mr J is unhappy that while the dealership was closed, the £250 deposit was held by them. 
Given both parties were of the belief that he wanted the car as soon as it was ready to be 
collected, I dont believe it was unreasonable for the dealership to have held onto the deposit 
during the period they were required to close. As soon as Mr J decided not to proceed with 
the finance agreement, a request was made for it to be refunded. I note there was an 
approximate two week delay in Mr J receiving the money due to an administrative error but I 
dont think this was a substantial delay given the operational challenges the dealership 
wouldve been facing at the time. Toyota has acknowledged the inconvenience caused 
hence why theyve offered £100 compensation and in the circumstances, I believe this is fair. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear that Mr J was unable to acquire the car like he intended, I 
understand he wouldve been disappointed by this. However given the unprecedented 
nature of the Covid-19 pandemic and the operational impact it had on financial businesses, I 
cant say Toyota have acted unfairly. Theyve already made an offer to remove the credit 
check from Mr Js credit file and pay £100 compensation to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint.
To put things right, Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc must:
- Remove the credit check from Mr Js credit file;
- Pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman