DRN-2932684
The complaint
Miss R complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Mutual here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Approved Amount Weekly term and 
payment (rounded)repaid
1 14 March 2015 £300 51 x £8 18 May 2016
2 21 May 2016 £540
(£40 used to 
repay loan 1)51 x £15 7 February 2018
3 10 February 2018 £150 26 x £8 1 August 2018
4 4 August 2018 £500 51 x £14 2 September 2020
Our adjudicator thought that Mutual should put things right for Miss R from Loan 2. Miss R
accepts that outcome and Mutual disagreed.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 July 2021. The background and the provisional findings 
are set out here. It is in reduced text size to differentiate it. Both parties responded and 
I have dealt with their responses and the additional information each sent to me later in this 
final decision. 
My provisional decision dated 15 July 2021
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of this 
nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type of credit. 
So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our general approach to complaints 
about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  
are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and issues 
relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published documents, the role of 
home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the provision of graphs to compare its 
repayments with high cost short term credit lenders.
 
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has addressed 
many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions. Where Mutual has 
raised points relevant to Miss R circumstances or complaint I have referred to them where necessary.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
- having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to 
a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
- having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the risk 
that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable);
- coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive of 
the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Miss R has not disagreed with the outcome in relation to loan 1, and so I do not consider that to be in 
dispute and so I have not reviewed it in detail.
I have the benefit of two credit files: one from Mutual which looks to have been obtained in 2018 and 
the other from Miss R which is more out of date as it was obtained in October 2016. Both give me a 
good picture of Miss Rs credit situation for the lending period with Mutual. And there are a couple of 
entries where I have been able to chart the progress of a credit commitment as Mutuals credit search 
is about two years after Miss Rs which has been useful to see.
As for Miss Rs income and expenditure I can only rely on the information that she has given Mutual at 
the time of her applications. I have no other information from her. The information we receive from 
Mutual always is brief and for Miss Rs case theres no exception. Mutual has sent copies of the 
agreements and the application forms plus the handwritten notes by the agent to show what Miss R 
declared as her income and expenditure.
Loan 2
In May 2016 Miss R had not paid off loan one but this was only a few weeks after the agreed end date 
to loan 1. And I see that £40 was rolled over into the new loan 2. Ive looked carefully at the financial 
situation for Miss R. A change Ive noticed is that by loan 2 Miss R was not receiving what appears to 
have been maternity pay at the time of loan 1 but had now started to receive a salary.
And I can see that the credit reports do show a default for a telecoms account (default date 
January 2014), another Advance Against Income credit commitment (AAI) for which the default date 
was 2 April 2014, and a Mail Order default in June 2014. By May 2016 these would have been two 
years old and so certainly notable as financial history but not, alone, enough to think that Mutual was 
irresponsible to lend to Miss R. In between applying for loan 1 and applying for loan 2 her credit files 
reveal that she had taken another home-credit loan in January 2016 which was recorded as being a 
payment sum of around £60 a month.So, Ive thought carefully about the situation in May 2016 and on balance I think that the decision to 
lend to Miss R was not irresponsible. I think it likely was tight for her but at that stage in the lending 
relationship I do not think that Miss R having old defaults and one outstanding loan was enough to 
lead Mutual to decline her application.
Loan 3
However, by the time Miss R applied for Loan 3 a lot had changed. And even though this was for a 
small loan of £150 payable over 26 weeks at £8 each week I have reviewed the picture that her 
financial records revealed and I think that Mutual was wrong to lend that to her and any loans going 
forward. Particularly as Loan 4 was for a much larger sum. By February 2018 when Miss R applied for 
loan 3, she had taken nearly two years to repay loan 1 which was meant to be a 51 week term, which 
demonstrates to me she was finding it hard to repay the £15 each week. In addition, I have seen from 
the financial records which Mutual had and Miss R has supplied, that
- the defaulted accounts I referred to from 2014 remained outstanding still; and
- the loan Miss R had taken with another lender in January 2016 was classified as
delinquent from September 2017; and
- a month after taking loan 2, a utility bill account was defaulted  June 2016; and
- two other home credit accounts she had obtained on the same day  9 September
2016  had been classified as delinquent by August 2017.
All of this leads me to think that a responsible lender would have appreciated that she was in financial 
challenging times and realised that additional credit, even a £150 loan, was not the right answer.
Her declared income are handwritten notes and difficult to read and to decipher the shorthand notes 
used by the agent. But that agent had noted she had other commitments/other essential expenditure 
of £334 a month which is a large sum, and his calculations led him to note that she had £50 a week 
as income left over. At this point, with a three year lending history where shed taken 2 years to repay 
loan 2, together with the details Ive outlined being information Miss R had either declared and/or 
Mutual knew from its own research, then even £8 a week was not a responsible decision. Miss Rs 
financial situation appears to have been deteriorating.
So, I am planning to uphold Miss Rs application for loan 3 for different reasons to that used by our 
adjudicator.
It follows that when Miss R applied for loan 4 for more money (£500), then my view is the same. 
I have noted Miss Rs explanations as to her situation for loan 4, and considering all that Ive said 
above, then I am planning to uphold Miss Rs complaint.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Ill go on to set out what Mutual 
should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate Credit 
International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge meant where 
that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number of loans per year: for 
example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower amount than this to Miss R, then 
this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, 
with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been lent irresponsibly. 
There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows that the lending is 
unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgment was considering issues 
related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected credit. I can see Mutual has 
acknowledged they are different products with different considerations. And it has repeatedly been 
keen to distance its products from those of short term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that 
the Judges conclusions about a differently structured product can be directly applied here.And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern is 
harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be also looked at, 
as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any arguments which 
persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision in July 2021, Mutual has sent to me additional detailed 
responses which, I must accept, does show that I was incorrect in some of the interpretation 
of the credit file I had from Mutual and the older one I had from Miss R. I stand corrected in 
relation to some accounts as they were closed by the time Miss R was applying for loan 3. 
But the history of those accounts still have some relevance. 
Mutual accepts that there were three other home credit accounts marked as delinquent on 
Miss Rs credit report, that delinquency dating from around September 2017 and therefore 
pre-date the loan 3 approval. But Mutual says that these were incorrectly reported. It went on 
to say that these reported records from that other home-credit company could not be relied 
on due to that other companys internal administration issues, and the effect of those internal 
issues on that other companys reporting to credit reference agencies. Mutual also said that 
its (Mutuals) agents knew about these issues. The implication from Mutual is that knowing 
of this, its agents may not have accepted CRA search results showing that companys 
reports as accurate reported records. It said: Our agents are trained to ask the customer 
about their other credit commitments and so we would have been aware of this as an issue 
with her Provident accounts when viewing the customers credit report.
The submissions from Mutual were sent to Miss R and her reply is that she could confirm 
that the other home-credit accounts had been correctly reported. That other companys 
agent continued to come round asking for money, and she was not able to pay. 
I can see that these were being reported on Miss Rs credit file as arrears over a long period 
of time. I am not persuaded by Mutuals explanations of another companys internal issues 
being a reason to ignore loan account arrears on her file. There is no clear demonstration 
from Mutual that this administrative mix-up may have affected Miss R. And, having asked 
Miss R about this point, I accept what Miss R has said that she really was in arrears for a 
long time for those loans with that other company, and so I have no reason to think that the 
reporting on her file about those other home-credit company loans were incorrect.  
Miss R also said that Mutual had continued to lend to her knowing her repayment history 
with Mutual itself and the other lenders and so in her view this was irresponsible of Mutual. 
So, turning back to this complaint, having considered the submissions by Mutual, having 
accepted some and rejected others, having asked for Miss Rs views on some of the factual 
assertions made by Mutual about the other lenders loan reporting situation, I still think that 
having three other home credit loans (in arrears), on top of the lending history Miss R had 
with Mutual, leads me to think that Mutual ought not to have approved Loans 3 and 4. 
Mutual also says that the approval of a credit card for Miss R in December 2017 does 
indicate that credit was available to her and so it challenges the statement I have made 
about the redress: I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss R in a compliant 
way. 
This relates to the redress calculation (repeated below) and I was referring to another 
home-credit lender. I am not being asked to assess a credit card lenders approval and 
I have no details about that credit card application or that lenders approach to credit 
applications. I disagree with this part of Mutuals new submissions. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss R from loan 3, as Ive decided it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Miss R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more, or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont  
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss R in a compliant way at that time. And I still think this was the 
case. 
Having thought about all these possibilities, on current evidence, Im not persuaded it would
be fair or reasonable to conclude that Miss R would more likely than not have taken up any
one of these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Miss R loans 3 and 4. My understanding is that these have 
been repaid and there are no outstanding balances.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss R towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything already refunded; and
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) Mutual should pay Miss R the total of A plus B; and
D) amend Miss Rs credit file to remove any adverse payment information about
loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint in part and direct that Mutual Clothing 
and Supply Company Limited does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman