DRN-2926945
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Jaja Finance Limited handled refunds he received to his 
credit card account. 
What happened
Both sides to this dispute are familiar with the circumstances of the complaint so I will not 
rehearse the arguments in detail. But in brief, the issues arise as follows. 
Mr H holds a credit card account with Jaja. In 2019, he purchased event tickets using his 
credit card. However, in the following June and July, the merchant refunded the value of 
those tickets in a sequence of transactions. 
Jaja applied these refunds to Mr Hs credit card account so they had the effect of reducing 
the outstanding debit balance. 
In consequence, for the statement months of June and July Mr H was left with a positive net 
balance on his account  in other words, Jaja owed him money.
Mr H asked Jaja to send the value of the refunds to his nominated bank account. It agreed to 
refund the positive balance on his account, returning him to a net zero balance, but didnt 
agree to refund him the full value of the refunds his credit card account had received. 
Furthermore, the way the relevant payments had been handled meant Mr H was charged 
debit interest of £0.02 in June and £0.14 in July. This happened despite Mr H having an 
arrangement in place to pay the full amount due every month by direct debit.
Mr H was unhappy with this. He says he had a similar problem in 2018 when a refund had 
been applied to his account. On that occasion (when Mr H had complained) the full value of 
the refund had been sent to his bank account and hed been given £50 compensation.
He therefore complained to Jaja about the 2020 refunds. In summary, he said Jaja should 
have refunded him the full value of the refunds received into his account, and he shouldnt 
have been charged interest.
Jaja didnt agree it was at fault. It said that the interest was due because of the way it 
accounted for the payments to and from his account. It said however it would refund the 
interest Mr H had been charged in June and July.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said the way Jaja had handled the refund wasnt provided for in 
his accounts terms and conditions, and it had the effect of making his account operate more 
as if he held a debit card rather than a credit card. He said he wanted an apology and 
financial compensation (which he would like donated to charity). He wanted Jaja to retrain its 
staff and to change its procedures to avoid any recurrence. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She didnt think Jaja needed to do any more. She 
said our approach to redressing financial complaints aimed to return consumers to the 
position they had been in but wouldnt go further than that  for example by imposing 
penalties in excess of the detriment suffered by an individual. Jaja had reimbursed Mr H for 
the interest hed been charged and ensured that no further interest would be charged. So, 
Mr H was no longer out of pocket.
She said the Financial Ombudsman Service wasnt a regulator and didnt have the power to 
enforce changes in a businesss terms and conditions. She noted nonetheless that the 
business had already said it would provide feedback to the relevant areas of its management 
to review the processes involved in light of Mr Hs feedback. All considered, she didnt think 
Jaja needed to do more.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr H is frustrated about what has happened. When hed received a similar 
merchant refund in the past, hed been able to obtain the full amount of that refund (albeit 
after having to raise a complaint). 
But when he asked to receive back the full amount of these latest merchant refunds, he was 
told that wasnt possible, and whats more, interest was charged. Mr Hs experience was at 
the very least inconsistent and he has raised the question of whether Jaja was ignoring the 
terms and conditions of his account.
Ive reviewed everything both sides have submitted in deciding what I consider would be fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Firstly, and in common with the way merchant refunds are usually handled, the refund was 
sent back to the card from which the original payment had been made. When Jaja received 
that refund, it was applied to Mr Hs credit card account. 
Had Mr Hs account balance been zero at that point, this would have resulted in a net 
balance equal to the refunded sums.
But Jaja offset the credited payments against the debit balance on Mr Hs account resulting 
from purchases hed made that same month. It then would only send him back the net 
balance.
While it doesnt appear that Mr H is now in a position of financial detriment (with Jaja having 
reimbursed the interest it had charged him) he argues that Jajas approach on this point is 
wrong. Amongst other points, Mr H doesnt think it fair and argues that the terms and 
conditions of his account dont say this will happen.
It seems to me that at the very least Jaja hasnt been consistent. When it reimbursed him 
after the first incident, Mr H would naturally have expected this to happen were the situation 
to arise again. Of course, that isnt quite the same as saying that Jaja would need to 
reimburse him in full should that situation arise again  as it did in the circumstances he has 
asked me to consider now.
In deciding whether Jaja needs to do more here, I have made reference to the account terms 
and conditions, and also taken into account what I consider to be usual industry practice.Mr Hs account with Jaja is a credit card account, and it is not designed to operate with a 
positive balance. Indeed, the terms and conditions prohibit holding a positive balance on the 
account. But clearly such a positive balance can arise when refunds are received to the 
account and the original debits to which those refunds correlate have already been paid by 
the account holder.
Jaja says that, where such a positive balance exists, it will return that balance (the positive 
account balance) to the customer. Applying Jajas approach will necessarily mean this is 
less than the amount refunded when other spending has accrued on the account. In 
essence, Jajas approach treats the refund no differently than if it were a payment made to 
the card by Mr H.
The section dealing with refunds (alongside disputed transactions, which these were not) 
merely says that If a Retailer gives you a refund in respect of a Transaction which you made 
using your Card we will credit the Account with the amount of the refund []. 
The account terms and conditions do not make explicit provision how the credit for a refund 
will be applied. In saying that, they do provide for payments made to the account to be offset 
against transactions not yet appearing on the customers monthly statement: [] if the 
payment is greater than your monthly statement balance, we will apply any remaining 
payment against transactions that have not yet appeared on your statement []. Of course, 
that clause does not refer to merchant refunds, and is simply headed: payments to the 
account, going on to refer to payments made by the cardholder rather than refunds received 
from other parties. So the terms and conditions do not make this matter clear.
In saying that I dont find the approach Jaja took here to be out of line with typical industry 
practice. While I dont consider it necessarily unfair, I appreciate nonetheless why Mr H finds 
Jajas approach both confusing and contradictory. 
In saying all the above, as the investigator rightly pointed out my remit is to consider where 
financial or other detriment has occurred, and consider where fault requires that detriment to 
be redressed. Jaja has said it will take on board Mr Hs feedback on the points hes raised. It 
has refunded the interest he was charged. I think these steps were reasonable in the 
circumstances. I could not require it to do more here. So, while I sympathise with Mr Hs 
frustration, I do not find Jaja is required to do more.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint about Jaja Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman