DRN-4306972
The complaint
Mr C complains that Carfinance247 Limited carried out a credit check even though he hadnt 
completed his application. Hes also unhappy about the number of emails hes received 
despite asking for his data to be erased.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr C submitted an application form with his personal details to 
Carfinance247.
As part of the application process, Carfinance247 carried out a soft credit check.
Mr C complained to Carfinance247. He said he hadnt completed his application and hadnt 
given permission for a credit check. He asked for all his personal information to be erased.
In its final response, Carfinance247 said it wasnt upholding Mr Cs complaint because it 
hadnt made an error by sending his details to lenders for the purposes of conducting a soft 
search.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think Carfinance247 had made an 
error by sending Mr Cs details to lenders to conduct a soft search but said that the service 
provided by Carfinance247 fell below the standard expected because it had sent Mr C 
numerous emails after he requested that his data was erased. The investigator said that 
Carfinance247 should pay compensation of £50 to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed received emails from carfinance247 daily and he didnt think 
the level of compensation fairly reflected the stress caused.
Carfinance247 didnt agree either. It said that Mr C had requested a data removal, which it 
had processed, but that he had then raised further complaint points after the erasure which 
meant that it had to continue to send emails to Mr C regarding his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint has two aspects. The first relates to the soft credit check and whether it 
shouldve been carried out. The second is about the emails which Mr C received from 
Carfinance247 after he asked for his data to be erased. Ill deal with each aspect in turn.
Credit search
Mr C has said that he doesnt recall completing the application and says he didnt give 
permission for a credit check.
Carfinance247 has said that it received an application from Mr C on 22 January 2023. It 
explained that as part of the application process, Mr C agreed to the terms and conditions 
and the privacy policy. It said that the privacy policy outlines how it uses a customers details 
to provide its service, which includes credit searches.
This service asked Carfinance247 to provide a copy of what Mr C wouldve seen when he 
filled in the application. Carfinance247 said it couldnt provide screenshots of the application 
process.
Ive reviewed the application process online. The privacy statement sets out what 
Carfinance247 will do with personal information, which includes providing it to lenders to 
carry out a soft credit search. The privacy statement also says that if a customer doesnt 
agree with the privacy statement, they should not continue with the application. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr C ought to have been aware that his personal 
information would be used in this way. By continuing with the application, Mr C agreed to the 
terms and conditions, including the privacy statement.
For this reason, I dont think Carfinance247 made an error when it provided Mr Cs 
information for the purposes of a soft credit check.
Emails 
Ive reviewed the emails which Mr C provided to this service. Mr Cs email inbox shows that 
he received numerous emails from Carfinance247 between February 2023 and June 2023 
despite having asked for his data to be erased.
Carfinance247 has said that it had to send emails to Mr C in order to deal with his complaint. 
However, looking at the emails which were sent to Mr C, although there are some about his 
complaint, the majority are marketing type emails. Given that Mr C had requested that his 
information was erased, I dont think Carfinance247 should have continued to send these 
emails.
Mr C has told this service about the impact that the emails had on him. Its clear that Mr C 
has been caused some unnecessary distress here. I think its fair to ask Carfinance247 tp 
pay compensation of £50 for the trouble and upset caused. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable amount to reflect the impact on Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Carfinance247 Limited must take the steps 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman