DRN-2405739
The complaint
Mr C and Miss S complain about the service they received from Travel Insurance Agencies 
Ltd (TIA) after they had bought a policy of travel insurance from it.
What happened
Mr C and Miss S bought a single trip policy of travel insurance on 1 May 2019, intending to 
travel between September 2019 and September 2020. 
Whilst on their travels they wanted to add winter sports cover to the policy, but despite 
phoning and emailing TIA many times, they were unable to get through or get an answer.
Miss S spoke to TIA in February 2020 after she had to temporarily return to the UK, leaving 
Mr C to continue his travels. She complained about the service they had received, and said 
she was told by TIA that it would cancel the policy and give her a refund. No refund has 
been received.
TIA didnt respond to their complaint, so Mr C and Miss S complained to our service. Our 
investigator asked TIA for the policy documents and evidence of the phone calls and contact 
logs. TIA sent the generic policy document but didnt provide any further evidence. It said it 
was under no obligation to provide winter sports cover once the policy was in place, and said 
the policy had not been cancelled and that there must have been a misunderstanding about 
a refund being due. The investigator asked for recordings of the phone calls made but these 
werent provided.
Having looked at the policy document, the investigator couldnt see any reason why TIA 
wouldnt have provided additional cover for winter sports whilst the policy was in force. He 
also thought the service provided by TIA caused Mr C and Miss S distress and 
inconvenience and TIA should pay them £200 in compensation for this. He also thought that 
TIA had cancelled the policy on 17 February 2020 so it should refund the remaining 
proportion of the cover, adding 8% simple interest until the date of settlement. 
TIA didnt agree. It said it was bound by the terms and conditions of the policy, as were Mr C 
and Miss S. It had no record of any refund and the balance of the premium was not due. As 
no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr C and Miss S took out a single trip policy of travel insurance in May 2019, through TIA, to 
cover a year of backpacking from 1 September 2019 to 1 September 2020. From 
November 2019 onwards I have seen evidence of many emails from Miss S to TIA asking to 
add winter sports cover. The majority of these were not answered, but in the limited 
responses TIA gave Ive not seen any which say it couldnt provide this additional cover. I 
am satisfied that it is likely Mr C and Miss S felt they were under insured without this cover, 
and being unable to get a satisfactory response over 4 months would have caused them 
distress and inconvenience.
TIA has subsequently said that it couldnt provide this additional cover whilst the policy was 
in force, but havent given any evidence to support this. I consider it quite common for 
insurance policies to have additional cover added mid-term, as long as the underwriters 
conditions were met and an appropriate additional premium is paid. And if this additional 
cover is declined I would expect to see evidence from the underwriters to show that it didnt 
meet the underwriting criteria. Ive seen nothing to suggest TIA even explored this option for 
Mr C and Miss S.
Because of my findings above, I agree that TIA should pay Mr C and Miss S £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused them.  
Moving on to the dispute about whether the policy was cancelled or not. TIA has said the 
policy wasnt cancelled on 17 February 2020 like Mr C and Miss S have said. It says this 
must have been a misunderstanding. But Ive seen emails from Miss S to TIA around this 
time naming the employee she has spoken to and that she was told the policy was cancelled 
and she would get a refund. And Mr C and Miss S have provided us an emailed document 
from TIA which shows clearly the policy was cancelled and refunded on 17 February 2020. 
TIA has, as Ive explained, not provided any of the information our investigator asked for, or 
provided anything to evidence the policy shouldnt have been cancelled.
I cannot be certain what was said during the call on 17 February, as no recording or 
transcript has been provided, but I am satisfied that the policy was cancelled as a result, but 
I need to decide who did this. Where there is a lack of definitive proof, I need to decide on 
the balance of probability, what I think was most likely to have occurred. Although Miss S 
was in the UK at the time, Mr C was still travelling, so I think it unlikely that they would want 
to cancel the policy as they still needed the cover they had paid for. So Im satisfied that it is 
more likely that the policy was cancelled by TIA. 
When I look at the terms and conditions relating to policy cancellation, it says the following: 
We shall not be bound to accept renewal of any insurance and may at any time cancel any 
insurance document by giving 14 days notice in writing where there is a valid reason for 
doing so. A cancellation letter will be sent to You at Your last known address.
Valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
a) Where We reasonably suspect fraud
b) Non-payment of premium
c) Threatening and abusive behaviour
d) Non-compliance with Policy terms and conditions
e) You have not taken reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the 
questions We ask.
If We cancel the policy and/or any additional covers You will receive a refund of any 
premiums You have paid for the cancelled cover, less a proportionate deduction for the time 
We have provided cover.
I havent seen any evidence that shows TIA have relied upon any of the conditions for 
cancellation, so Im satisfied a proportionate refund is due. The policy was taken out to cover travel from 1 September 2019 to 1 September 2020. This 
is 367 days. It was cancelled by TIA on 17 February 2020, which means the cover was in 
place for 170 days, leaving 197 days due a refund. 
The premium for 367 days cover was £676.27 so Im satisfied a refund of £363 is due. And I 
think 8% simple interest should be added to this in line with our standard awards when a 
person is without money they are entitled to. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Travel Insurance Agencies Ltd to pay Mr C and Miss S the 
following:
£363 refund for the cancelation of the policy. I require it to add 8% simple interest to 
this amount, calculated from 17 February 2020 to the date of settlement, and
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman