DRN-2373063
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) valuation of his car following a car 
insurance claim.   
What happened
Mr K was involved in an accident which he reported to Ageas. Mr Ks car was declared a 
total loss and he was offered £198.50 as settlement. 
Mr K complained to Ageas about their valuation. Ageas said their valuation was reviewed in 
line with the industry recognised guide books and took into account the mileage and 
condition of Mr Ks car. They then set out three valuations based on motor-trade guides. 
Ageas said, due to the pre-accident damage, a deduction was then made of £950 which was 
an estimate to return the car to a retail condition. They said this was reviewed and confirmed 
by an engineer. Ageas said their settlement of £198.50  subject to a £100 policy excess, 
represents a fair market value. They said, as Mr K had retained the salvage, there would 
also be a deduction of £60. They said payment had been sent by cheque for £38.50. They 
didnt uphold the complaint.       
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. She thought Ageas hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in their valuation. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ks car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, if the car is a total loss then, once an engineer has inspected and 
assessed the market value of the car, the insurer will send an offer of payment. Thats 
happened here so I think Ageas have acted in line with the policy. So the next point Ive 
considered is whether Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when carrying out their valuation.  
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and 
thats what Ageas did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Ageas to rely on 
the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Ageas said, as Mr K had 
already sold his car privately before they could inspect it, their engineer assessed the car 
from images provided by Mr K. Ive seen a valuation report which has been signed by an 
engineer and this describes the car as being in poor condition with pre-accident damage to a 
number of areas. 
I think Ageas followed the standard industry practice for this. Its reasonable for an insurer to 
take into account the pre-accident condition of a car when carrying out a valuation. An 
engineer is qualified to comment on this and it was reasonable for Ageas to take this into 
consideration. So, I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable.  
Mr K is unhappy with Ageas valuation of the car as he thinks its worth more. Ive seen that 
Ageas reached this figure by using industry recognised tools to find out the market value of 
the car. They obtained three valuations from motor-trade guides and used the two highest 
valuations to work out an average of £1,148.50. Our investigator thought Ageas valuation 
was fair and reasonable, so Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. I should explain 
that it's not my role to value cars but Ill look to see that an insurers reached their valuation 
reasonably. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. 
Our investigator looked for valuations of Mr Ks car in the motor-trade guides we use. I can 
see that this took into account the make, model, age, mileage and options. It was based on a 
car in good condition. So, I think this was done correctly. The result was that Ageas 
valuation of Mr Ks car was higher than the average of the valuations the investigator found. I 
can see Mr K has provided a report which values his car higher than Ageas valuation. I have 
taken this into account but, as mentioned above  and in relation to this complaint, my role is 
to see whether Ageas reached their valuation reasonably. And, from the information Ive 
seen, I think they have.  
So, I think Ageas reached their valuation of Mr Ks car in a fair and reasonable manner. I 
think it was reasonable for them to apply the deductions they did to reach a figure which 
takes into account the condition of the car. So I dont uphold the complaint and I dont 
require Ageas to increase their valuation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman