DRN-1959030
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he has received from J D Williams & Company Limited 
trading as Jacamo (Jacamo).
What happened
Mr C says that Jacamo treated him unfairly when it asked for evidence in support of his 
request, for health reasons, that his account with it be put on hold.
Mr C also complains about how his complaint was handled by Jacamo and that his subject 
access request (SAR) was overlooked.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Jacamo 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators conclusion, so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
In August 2020 Jacamo reviewed Mr Cs account and took the decision to close it and to 
write off the balance of £760.35.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. 
I would also add that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I accept that Mr C might have felt inconvenienced in being asked to provide evidence in 
support of his request for his account to be placed on hold for longer than 28 days. But Im 
satisfied that Jacamo was entitled to ask for evidence and such a request was simply in line 
with its policy. 
I would also add that Ive seen nothing to suggest that anything Jacamo asked for wouldnt 
have been held by it securely and in line with its regulatory and legal obligations to Mr C, or 
that Jacamo would have had any difficulties in understanding what Mr C might have 
submitted.
Mr C submits that his complaint wasnt handled appropriately by Jacamo. 
Mr C raised his complaint with Jacamo on 2 October 2019 and says he didnt receive an 
acknowledgement of the same until he received a letter dated 6 November 2020.
First, having considered what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied that 
Jacamo acknowledged Mr Cs complaint before 17 October 2020 but this first 
acknowledgement wasnt received by Mr C, resulting in a second acknowledgement dated 
6 November 2020 being sent. I also think that its worth pointing out that a final response 
letter was sent to Mr C within eight weeks of 2 October 2019, as required by the regulator. 
So, with the above in mind, Im satisfied that Jacamo handled Mr Cs complaint 
appropriately. But even if I wasnt of this view, as pointed out by the investigator Ive no 
power to consider, on its own and in itself, complaints about complaint handling where the 
underlying complaint isnt being upheld.
Mr C also submits that his SAR was, at least initially, overlooked. However even if I was to 
accept this was the case, and for the avoidance of doubt I dont, its my understanding that 
this request has now been processed. But in any event any concerns Mr C might have in this 
respect are ones that in my view need to be taken up with the Information Commissioners 
Office rather than our service.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman