DRN-4187822
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money:
Knew he wanted to open a new bond when his existing one matured. But when his bond 
matured he was told there were no more bonds available.
Told him he couldnt reinvest his matured bond money until his complaint had been 
resolved.
Took too long to deal with his complaint, at one point wrongly closing it.
He wants compensation for the interest he says hes lost since his existing bond matured on 
21 April 2021.
The events Mr L complains about took place when the business was trading as Yorkshire 
bank. Virgin Money has now taken responsibility for the complaint, and I will refer to the 
business as Virgin Money throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr L had a fixed rate bond in his sole name which matured in April 2021. Shortly before 
maturity, Mr L phoned Virgin Money to discuss his options. He said he was told he would be 
able to open a new bond in joint names with his son. But, when the bond matured, he says 
Virgin Money told him there werent any new bonds available. He complained in or around 
April 2021, and he didnt receive a final response until February 2023. He says the delay 
was partly caused because Virgin Money wrongly closed his complaint. And he says hes 
lost interest because Virgin Money told him that he couldnt reinvest the bond maturity 
proceeds until his complaint had been resolved.
Virgin Money said there were no bonds available when Mr Ls existing bond matured, and he 
was given the correct information. And that it hadnt told him he couldnt reinvest his bond 
proceeds while his complaint was being investigated. It apologised for the length of time it 
took to investigate and respond to his complaint and offered Mr L £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It says his complaint was transferred to another complaint reference 
but wasnt closed or missed. It offered to pay him a further £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Virgin 
Moneys offer of £100 in total was fair and reasonable. He thought Mr L had been given the 
correct information and hed not seen evidence to show that Virgin Money told Mr L he 
couldnt reinvest his money until his complaint had been resolved.
Mr L didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Virgin Money misled him. He was told he should transfer the existing bond maturity 
proceeds to his bank account, and he could then open a new bond in joint names with 
his son. He should have been told there were no bonds available.
Branch staff told him, on more than one occasion, that he couldnt reinvest the bond 
proceeds until his complaint had been resolved  either by Virgin Money or by ourselves.
He received a complaint closure letter before his complaint had been properly 
investigated. Virgin Money had to reopen the complaint using a new reference number.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to a recording of the phone call which took place after Mr L received 
the notice of maturity letter from Virgin Money. Mr L phoned Virgin Money because he 
couldnt clearly read the letter hed received, and he wanted to know what his options were. 
Virgin Money told him that it was offering bonds at 0.35% for maturing bond holders. Mr L 
thought better rates might be available elsewhere, and he also wanted the new bond to be in 
the joint names of him and his son. He was the one to suggest that it would be best to 
transfer the bond maturity proceeds to his bank account and he would reinvest from there. 
He asked Virgin Money if it could send a new bond account opening form in case he and his 
son decided to open a bond with Virgin Money. But Virgin Money explained this would be 
treated as a new investment, rather than reinvestment of a maturing one, and that there 
were no bonds available for new customers.
Whilst during the call Mr L didnt always seem to fully understand what Virgin Money told 
him, Im satisfied that matters were clarified during the call. And, by the end of the call, Mr L 
had given clear instructions to transfer the bond maturity proceeds to his instant savings 
account when it matured on 20 April 2021. Im satisfied he understood that Virgin Money 
wouldnt be able to open a new bond for him to invest in, because he would be treated as a 
new customer once the bond proceeds had been withdrawn.
Mr L says he was told by branch staff that he couldnt reinvest the bond maturity proceeds 
until his complaint had been resolved. Whilst I appreciate this was his understanding, Ive 
not seen evidence to show that he was told this by Virgin Money. When his bond matured, 
the proceeds were paid to his account in accordance with his instructions. From there he 
was free to use that money however and whenever he chose to. The investigation and the 
outcome of his complaint didnt restrict him from withdrawing his own money had he chosen 
to do so.
Mr Ls complaint was initially being dealt with by Virgin Money alongside another complaint 
that he had raised. Whilst that complaint was closed by Virgin Money, Im satisfied the 
matters he raised which hadnt been responded to were transferred to a new complaint 
reference and continued to be investigated.
Ive tried to obtain further information from Virgin Money to understand why it took so long for 
it to respond to this complaint. But Virgin Money hasnt provided an explanation. Whilst this 
is frustrating, and has caused Mr L some distress, Virgin Money paid Mr L £100 as an 
apology and a gesture of goodwill. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Virgin Money credited Mr Ls account on 28 June 2023. So I dont find it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman