DRN-2686869
The complaint
Mr C  on behalf of the Union  complains that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (Jelf) mis-
sold it a commercial combined liability policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 March 2021. I said I didnt intend to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
The Union says that Jelf mis-sold it a commercial combined liability policy. It said that 
its chairman (Mr A, who always arranged their insurance) became flustered when 
buying the insurance as he is in his 80s, and unwisely agreed to an insurance 
premium that represented a four-fold increase. However, other searches of the 
market at that time showed that there were comparable policies available for £400. 
I issued a decision in November 2020 saying that I considered the Union to be an 
eligible complainant for the purposes of our rules because, although it could not bring 
the complaint as an unincorporated association, its officers could bring the complaint 
on the Unions behalf as a group of consumers acting collectively. 
Our investigator proceeded to consider the merits of the complaint. He upheld it on 
the basis that we were considering Mr A as a consumer taking out a consumer 
product, where he said that Jelf should have done more to identify that he was 
vulnerable, such that they mis-sold the policy. But Im afraid this isnt correct.
In these circumstances, the Union is only being treated as a group of consumers for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction. The Union was purchasing a commercial policy, and 
Mr A took out the policy on behalf of the Union and its officers as a commercial 
collective. So it does not get the benefits and protections that come with a consumer 
contract as it was not a consumer product. 
Mr A was acting on behalf of the Union when he interacted with Jelf with a view to 
taking out liability cover. So when he accepted cover for the price quoted, he 
accepted it on the Unions behalf. Ive seen nothing to suggest he was pressured into 
taking out the policy, or that he was given no choice in the matter. If the Union felt it 
was being overcharged, it was free to reject the quote and shop around for a better 
price. And if it had concerns about Mr As ability to agree a policy for a competitive 
price, then it also shouldve selected a different representative to source the cover.
 
In any event, even if Mr A could be treated as a consumer himself in this instance 
(which, for the reasons explained, he cannot) Ive seen no persuasive evidence to 
suggest that Jelf had any reason to suspect that he was vulnerable or was incapable 
of understanding what he was agreeing to.  
The Union told Jelf that it wanted its insurance to cover all of its groups (i.e. other 
natural history societies in the region) under one policy rather than all groups having 
separate policies. Jelf clearly set out the options to the Union in an email sent to Mr A 
on 8 May 2019, where they said the current insurer is the only option for cover that 
includes all groups under one policy, which amounted to £1,190 for a £1,000,000 
indemnity limit, and £1,414 for a £2,000,000 indemnity limit. They also quoted cover 
for each group on separate policies for a cheaper premium. But on 9 May 2019, Mr A 
called Jelf and confirmed that the Union wanted to proceed with the insurers quote 
that covered all groups at an annual premium of £1,190. Indeed, Mr A later emailed 
Jelf on the same day saying he had even discussed the options with other Union 
officers:
After consultations with my secretary and treasurer we would wish to go for option 1 
[cover to include all groups under one policy]. As I understand it this would give all 
the member societies insurance cover as before at a cost of £1,190. Would you 
kindly let me have the necessary documentation for us to proceed. 
As Ive set out above, it was open to the Union to reject Jelfs quotes and shop 
around if it thought it was too expensive. The fact that it didnt and chose to accept it 
does not mean the policy has been mis-sold. I appreciate the Union may have 
subsequently found a cheaper quote elsewhere. But each insurer can take their own 
approach to risk, which results in differing premiums. Some are more cautious, which 
may mean that they price more highly on average than other insurers. The fact that 
Jelf may have offered a policy from their panel of insurers that was more expensive 
than others potentially available on the market does not mean that they were wrong 
to offer it, or that they have acted unfairly.
Jelf also made it clear in the renewal invite and subsequent policy documentation 
sent to the Union that the premium charged was a minimum premium for the policy, 
and that no refund would be given if the policy were to be cancelled mid-term before 
renewal date. So, after the Union made payment for the policy on 4 June 2019, it 
became non-refundable. I therefore do not think Jelf have acted unfairly by declining 
to offer a refund when the Union later wanted to cancel the policy. 
I invited both parties to respond. Jelf accepted the findings in my provisional decision, but 
the Union disagreed. In summary, it said that the broker failed to provide a competent and 
professional service which led to it paying an unreasonable amount for its insurance. It said 
that the fact the premium was non-refundable was overlooked, but they at least expected an 
equitable settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
I have taken into account the Unions most recent submissions, and I appreciate that it 
doesnt consider that it received a professional service from Jelf. But this has not changed 
my conclusions on the matter. As I said in my provisional decision, Jelf clearly set out the 
various options available to the Union and how much each of those options cost. It was open 
to the Union to reject those quotes and shop around if it thought either of the options were 
too expensive. But instead, it appears that Mr A discussed the quotes with other officers and 
decided to proceed. The fact that it was a more expensive option than other policies available on the market does not, in my judgment, mean that it was mis-sold or that the 
broker has acted unfairly. 
I appreciate that the Union was disappointed not to receive a refund. But it was made clear 
in all the policy documentation that the premium was non-refundable, so the Union ought 
reasonably to have known what it was agreeing to, and that it wouldnt be entitled to a refund 
if it changed its mind. So I dont think Jelf has acted unreasonably by declining to offer a 
refund in these circumstances.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to the Union. But in the circumstances (and 
for the reasons set out above) Im not persuaded that Jelf has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C  on behalf 
of The Union  to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman