DRN-1193742
 
The complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
 What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1992 and bought a PPI policy at around the 
same time. 
The policy, which was free for the first 12 months, gave Mr C a monthly benefit equal to his 
monthly mortgage repayment for up to 24 months for each successful unemployment, 
accident or sickness claim he made. 
Mr C says he was just told he needed the PPI and was led to believe it was recommended. 
But he says he had good sick pay and some savings and so didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr C disagrees and so his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C says he wasnt given a choice about the PPI. Although Nationwide doesnt have any 
paperwork from the time Mr C bought the PPI, it says the PPI policy Mr C took out formed 
part of a Home to Home offer he had chosen. It says although the PPI was part of this 
product offer, it wasnt a condition that had to be maintained throughout and couldve been 
cancelled at any time after the mortgage completed. 
So I think Mr Cs PPI was part of the mortgage product he chose. And I should say 
Nationwide was allowed to offer mortgages and PPI like this, as long as it was clear to its 
customers. But, as Ive said, I dont have any paperwork from the time to show how 
Nationwide made this clear  and Nationwide cant now say how the PPI was sold (although 
Mr C says it was in a meeting, and this seems plausible). But the PPI was free for the first 12 
months. I think this is a good benefit and a good selling point of the mortgage product that 
was on offer. So I think its likely this was discussed with Mr C when he took the mortgage 
out and he agreed to it. And if he hadnt wanted the PPI, he couldve looked for another 
mortgage product that didnt include it.
Although Mr C says Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr C, I havent seen anything to 
make me think it did, especially bearing in mind what we know about how Nationwide sold 
PPI with its mortgages at around this time. So it was for Mr C to decide if the PPI was right for him. But Nationwide still had to make sure Mr C was given clear enough information to 
make a well-informed decision when agreeing it. So thats what Ive looked at.
I can see Mr C was eligible for the PPI. I dont know if Nationwide told him clearly what the 
cost and benefits of the policy were before he took it out. So its possible it couldve 
explained these better than it did. But Mr C was taking on a long-term and significant 
financial commitment secured against his home. And the policy couldve given him up to 24 
months protection if he couldnt work. Mr C says he got good sick pay and had some 
savings, so didnt need it. But, as Ive said, I think the particular mortgage Mr C took out 
required him to have PPI. So I think hed still have bought the policy anyway.
Its also possible Nationwide didnt give Mr C all the clear information it shouldve about what 
the policy didnt cover. But this doesnt mean it was mis-sold, because I dont think    Mr C 
wouldve found it difficult to claim under the policy given what he says about his 
circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got. So I dont think more information 
about the policy exclusions and limitations, had it been needed, wouldve stopped him going 
ahead.
Finally, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr C couldnt afford the policy, which he couldve 
cancelled any time without penalty.
In conclusion, I dont think Mr C has lost out because of anything Nationwide may have done 
wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman