DRN-3145083
The complaint
Mr P has complained through his representative that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd has 
refused to return the premiums having avoided (treated as if they never existed) his motor 
insurance policies. 
Mr P also complained through his representative that he incurred additional storage charges 
because of delays due to the poor service provided by Accredited when his broker was 
trying to arrange cover for Mr Ps agent to collect the car. But weve told Mr Ps 
representative that we cannot look at this aspect, as Mr P had not raised it with Accredited 
when he asked us to consider it as part of his complaint. 
What happened
With the help of his agent, Mr P took out five policies with Accredited through a broker in 
January and March 2019. The broker is now representing Mr P on this complaint. When the 
policies were taken out Accredited was told Mr P had a Full EU Licence. All five policies 
were renewed in January 2020. In June 2020 the police seized one of Mr Ps cars and 
impounded it, as it did not appear on the Motor Insurance Database. Mr P has said when his 
agent went to collect his car the police doubted his insurance certificate was genuine and 
contacted Accredited. They told Accredited that Mr P only held a UK Provisional Licence. 
When Accredited found this out it avoided all of Mr Ps policies, that is the ones he took out 
in 2019 and the ones that started at renewal in January 2020. Accredited relied on the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). And the 
avoidance was on the basis that Mr P did not hold a full driving licence when he took out the 
policies and when they were renewed. As I understand it, what Accredited meant by this was 
that Mr P had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he took 
out the policies by stating he had a Full EU Licence. And that hed also failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he renewed them by not telling 
Accredited the information it held about him with regards to his driving licence was incorrect. 
Accredited also  in effect - said that these were what CIDRA refers to as qualifying 
misrepresentations on the basis it  wouldnt have insured Mr P if it  had known he only had a 
UK Provisional Licence. 
Accredited also said Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations 
about his previous driving offences. However, as I understand it, this in itself wouldnt have 
meant Accredited wouldnt have provided the policies. 
Accredited wrote to Mr Ps broker and said it would arrange temporary cover for Mr Ps 
agent to collect his vehicle from the Police storage compound, subject to Mr P repaying the 
£24,536.13 it had paid out in claims under the policies. Mr P did this and his representative 
was able to collect the car. Accredited then told Mr Ps broker that, having avoided the 
policies, it would not be refunding any of the premiums on the basis Mr Ps 
misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate.
 
Mr Ps representative then complained about this to Accredited. But it didnt alter its position. 
So he asked us to consider a complaint for Mr P about Accredited. One of our investigators 
did this. He concluded Accredited was entitled to avoid Mr Ps policies and keep the 
premiums. 
Mr Ps representative doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He has 
pointed out that CIDRA says that an insurer can keep the premiums following a reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation unless it is unfair for it to do so. Hes said that, because Mr P 
has paid back what Accredited paid out in claims, it is unfair for it to keep his premiums. He 
thinks it should give back at least the premiums Mr P paid for the 2020 policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law I need to take account of in deciding the fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. There is no specific reference in CIDRA to renewals. But, the 
explanatory notes accompanying it make it clear that, in law, each time a policy is renewed it 
is regarded as a new contract (policy). And that the duty for a consumer to take reasonable 
care applies at this time. CIDRA also states that a failure by the consumer to comply with the 
insurers request to confirm or amend particulars previously given is capable of being a 
misrepresentation for the purposes of the Act.
 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIDRA also says a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer 
knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to 
the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer. And it puts the onus 
on the insurer to prove this. 
Mr P took out 10 policies (consumer insurance contracts) with Accredited. Five in 2019 and 
five when each of the original policies was renewed in 2020. 
Accredited thinks Mr P, or his agent on his behalf, failed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation when he took out the policies in 2019 and when they were renewed in 
2020. Its provided evidence in the form of Statements of Insurance issued when the policies 
started to show that Mr P or his agent stated in the sales process for each policy, which it 
seems was carried out through Mr Ps broker, that he had a full EU licence. Mr P was also 
sent Statements of Insurance for all the policies at renewal in 2020 and these all stated he 
had a Full EU Licence. Its not in dispute that Mr P only had a Provisional Licence in the UK 
when he took out the policies and renewed them. Mr P, his agent and his representative 
have been asked numerous times to provide evidence that Mr P also has or had a full EU 
licence, but this hasnt been provided. So, I think Accredited has done enough to show that it is more likely than not that Mr P didnt have a full EU licence when the policies were taken 
out and renewed and only had a UK Provisional Licence. 
It seems it was Mr Ps agent who made the misrepresentation about Mr Ps licence in 2019 
when the policies were taken out, as Mr P has said the policies were set up on his behalf by 
his agent. But  in law  Mr P is responsible for the actions of his agent. This means that if 
his agent failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, Mr P is 
responsible for this. 
And, because it seems Mr P only had a UK Provisional Licence, I think Accredited has 
shown that his agent on behalf of Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation about the type of licence Mr P held when he took out the policies, as he or 
Mr P knew or should have known Mr P didnt have a full EU licence. If Mr Ps agent didnt 
know, he should not have just assumed Mr P had a full EU licence, he should have checked 
with him. 
I also think either Mr P or his agent failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when the policies were renewed in 2020. This is because Mr P was sent a 
further Statement of Motor Insurance for each policy to check prior to renewal and was 
asked to let Accredited know if any of the information recorded about him in these was 
incorrect. These all recorded Mr P as having a full EU licence. So, I think by not contacting 
Accredited and telling it this was incorrect, when they knew or should have known Mr P only 
had a UK Provisional Licence, Mr P and/or his agent failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when the policies were renewed. 
Im also satisfied these were qualifying misrepresentations both in 2019 and at renewal in 
2020. This is because Accredited has provided evidence to show it would not have provided 
any of the policies in 2019 or 2020 if Mr P or his agent on his behalf hadnt failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation about him holding a full EU licence. 
Accredited has said that the misrepresentations Mr P made were deliberate and/or reckless. 
And I think it has done enough to prove this. This is because, as Ive already explained, 
CIDRA says that a qualifying misrepresentation is reckless if the consumer knew that it was 
misleading, or did not care whether it was untrue or misleading and knew that the matter to 
which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer. And this also applies to the 
consumers agent. As Ive already said, I think if the agent didnt know for sure Mr P had a 
full EU licence, he should have checked with Mr P rather than assuming that he did, which 
seems to be whats happened. The agent must have known that the type of licence was 
relevant to Accredited, as without it Mr P wasnt actually allowed to drive in the UK on his 
own. It seems the agent didnt check. And it also seems Mr P and/or his agent must have 
known when they took out the policies in 2019 Mr P had been provided with a provisional 
licence in September 2018, as that is when the licence was issued. It seems inconceivable 
to me that neither Mr P nor his agent could have realised Mr P had been granted a 
provisional licence. 
Mr P has said he thinks his EU licence was somehow converted to a provisional licence. But 
I dont think this is what happened, as if Mr P had a full EU licence it would have been 
converted to a full UK one. This also adds a great deal of weight to my view that Mr P didnt 
actually have a full EU licence. So, because Mr P and/or his agent appear to have paid no 
real regard to whether the representation about his licence type was correct or not, I think 
Accredited has done enough to show the agents misrepresentation on behalf of Mr P was 
reckless when he took the policies out for Mr P in 2019. I also think the agents and/or Mr Ps 
failure to take reasonable care was reckless when the policies were renewed in 2020 for the 
same reason.It therefore follows that Im satisfied Accredited was entitled to avoid all 10 of Mr Ps policies 
because of reckless qualifying misrepresentations. CIDRA states that if this is the case 
Accredited can keep the premiums for the policies unless it is unfair for it to do so. 
Mr Ps representative has suggested it is unfair on the basis Mr P paid back what Accredited 
paid out in claims on the policy. But I dont agree. Ive looked at the report produced by The 
Law Commission before CIDRA became law, which set out its recommendations for 
Parliament. They said in this that as a general rule, where a consumer has made a 
deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, the insurer need not return the premiums. They did 
however acknowledge this could operate harshly in some circumstances. And they provided 
two examples of when it may be unfair for the insurer to keep some or all of the premiums. 
Neither of these are when the consumer has paid back claims paid out under the policy. 
And, I think, if The Law Commission thought this should be a consideration, it would 
probably have mentioned it as an example. 
I also think Accrediteds point that it was the Road Traffic Act insurer under the policies Mr P 
held and that this meant it still had some liability for third party claims resulting from 
accidents Mr P was involved in is a valid one. And its a consideration in deciding whether it 
is unfair for it to keep the premiums.  Bearing this in mind, with what CIDRA says and The 
Law Commissions reference to the insurer keeping the premiums in cases of reckless or 
deliberate misrepresentation being the general rule, I dont consider it unfair for Accredited to 
retain all the premiums Mr P paid. 
It therefore follows that, for the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint and Im not making Accredited reinstate any of his policies or return any of the 
premiums hes paid. I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed to hear this, but I think it is in line 
with the legal position and I think  in this case, it is the fair and reasonable outcome to his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman