DRN-2378187
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) dealt with 
a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S found a leak under a swim spa in his home. He said this was causing the spa to float. 
So, he contacted Lloyds to make an insurance claim. Lloyds wouldnt deal with it under the 
trace and access part of the policy because it said there was no damage to the property.
Mr S then arranged for the spa to be removed and the leak was found to be coming from a 
connector pipe from the water feed linked to the shower room. Lloyds reconsidered the claim 
and accepted that there had been an escape of water. It appointed a contractor to validate 
the claim and to check what liability it had. Lloyds then declined the claim because no 
damage was found. 
When Mr S complained, Lloyds said that there was no evidence of water damage to the 
property, so it couldnt consider the claim. The spa was within its own tanking and this 
prevented any water from escaping and damaging the structure of the property. Removing 
the spa had revealed where the leak was coming from and Mr S was able to fix it. Lloyds 
said that trace and access cover was only available where there was damage to the 
property, but there was no water damage.
So, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on the basis that there wasnt cover under the 
terms of the policy.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Mr S, I dont uphold this complaint. I 
will explain why.
A principle of making a claim on an insurance policy is that the policyholder needs to show 
they have a claim that is covered by the terms of the policy. However, an insurer will often 
investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Mr S found a leak, which he said was causing the 
spa to float, but wasnt sure of the source of it. When Lloyds looked into the claim, it couldnt 
find any evidence of damage, so it declined to provide trace and access cover.
Mr S then arranged for the spa to be removed and the source of the leak was found. Lloyds 
accepted that there was an escape of water, but still didnt accept that there was evidence of 
damage, so it then declined the claim for an escape of water. So, Ive considered whether it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to decide there wasnt any damage.
Mr S provided a letter from a company (Company A) that inspected the swim spa when Mr 
S found it was floating. This said:
Initial investigation was limited due to access but working off my previous experience of 
water damage to the internal workings of the spa being submersed, I would confidently say 
everything would need replacing including pumps, control unit,
insulation, all wiring including the music system.
The integrity of the shell will almost certainly be compromised as the fibre glass is
not designed to with stand water directly. Obviously, on the other side, there is an
acrylic barrier. (as original)
Mr S also provided a report from the company that later removed the swim spa to find the 
source of the leak. It was titled Re. Damage Report and said they had removed the spa:
to identify the build up of water under the pool, causing it to float within its housing.

we found a plastic push fit in line connector to be leaking. This push fit connector was 
located on the cold water pipe feeding the shower room.
The water level was approximately 200mm above the base of the concrete floor. We 
pumped the water out and replaced the faulty connector.
Company A said it hadnt found any damage to the swim spa but, based on previous 
experience, thought there would be damage to the electrics and to the integrity of the shell. 
The other report noted that the spa had been floating and found a leaking connector but 
didnt describe any damage to the spa itself. In my view, these reports didnt show there was 
damage to the spa. 
Ive seen an email from the previous owner of the house who said the spa had been working 
when they lived at the property. I saw another email that said the last record of the spa being 
serviced or maintained was in 2014, before Mr S owned the property. I also understand that 
Mr S hadnt used the spa in the three years that he had owned the property. Reading the 
manual, this listed a number of maintenance checks that should be carried out on a regular 
basis, which it suggested was every three months. So, I also dont think it was clear whether 
the spa was working properly at the time of the claim, regardless of the circumstances that 
led to the claim being made.
A loss adjuster assessed the spa and whether there was any damage. On the first visit, the 
loss adjuster took photos of the spa, which showed it was floating within the pit in which it 
sat. However, he was unable to determine the cause of the leak because the pit under the 
spa was filled with water. The loss adjusters report included Company As assessment of 
the spa, but didnt include any details of damage identified by the loss adjuster.
After Mr S removed the spa, the loss adjuster carried out a further assessment to see if there 
was any damage. He found that the leak was contained within the tanked spa enclosure, so 
there had been no property damage. The only damage noted by the loss adjuster was to the 
spa itself when it was cut up to gain access to the leaking pipework. 
Having thought about this carefully, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its loss 
adjusters findings that there wasnt any damage found. So, on that basis, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman