DRN-3980294
The complaint
A company Ill call D complains that Zotto Limited (Zotto) unfairly blocked its account and 
withheld the account balance of £30,438.58.
To put things right, D wants Zotto to release its funds and pay compensation.
D is represented by one of its directors, Mr M.
What happened
In 2022, Zotto placed a block on Ds account meaning D couldnt access the funds in its 
account. Zotto refused to release the funds so D made a formal complaint on 10 August 
2022.
On 11 August 2022, Zotto told D it had settled Ds account the day before but D noted Zotto 
had paid just over £900 of a balance of over £30,000. Zotto then said it would settle Ds 
account every Wednesday and Friday and that it was doing its best to regularize the 
settlement of Ds account. Zotto didnt explain why it continued to withhold Ds funds and 
didnt set out any details of when the full account balance would be released.
On 14 September, Zotto then told D that it could only clear funds for a terminated account, 
and that it intended to withhold Ds funds for 180 days as security for any chargebacks 
received. The following day, it told D it had frozen other of its customers accounts over 
concerns those customers were selling illegal products. Zotto made no suggestion that it 
held such concerns about D (and later told our service it had no such concerns about D) and 
said its audit of Ds account would be completed on 3 October 2022, at which point it would 
start releasing Ds account balance at the rate of £5,000 per day. It again gave no reason for 
its actions.
On 13 October, Zotto then told D it was willing to settle Ds account, but only if D started 
using Zotto to receive payments again. D was understandably not prepared to do so and, 
ultimately, Zotto failed to release Ds money as it had promised to do, so Mr M brought Ds 
complaint to our service. Shortly after, on 16 November 2022, Zotto closed Ds account 
without notice, but again failed to release Ds funds.
Our investigator asked Zotto to explain why it had continued to withhold Ds funds, and 
sought evidence to support Zottos claim that D had received a high level of chargebacks.
Zotto provided evidence of just seven chargebacks totalling £612.39 and spanning from April 
2021 to September 2022. Set against the account balance withheld of over £30,000, that 
represented a chargeback rate of around 2%. Our investigator said she had seen no 
justifiable reason to withhold the full balance of £30,438.58 and felt it should have withheld 
just £300. To put things right, she felt Zotto should pay D simple interest at the rate of 8% on 
the withheld fund, as well as compensation of £400.
D accepted our investigators findings, but Zotto didnt. It accepted it shouldnt have withheld 
the full balance, but said it was not for our service to tell Zotto how much it should withhold 
and that Zotto had an unqualified right to determine what funds it should hold after 
termination of a customers account. It said because of its position, it rejected the award of 
interest and compensation.
Zotto had claimed it was contractually entitled to withhold Ds money for 180 days. But 
despite that timeframe passing long ago, and despite Zotto acknowledging that it shouldnt 
have withheld such a high proportion of its customers funds, Zotto failed to release any 
further payments after our investigator issued her findings.
Because no agreement could be reached, the matter came to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M brought his complaint to our service, he said he felt Zotto had knowingly and 
repeatedly lied to him about the status of the account and why it was withholding Ds money. 
He was concerned Zotto was misusing Ds funds and that Zottos explanations of the 
situation to D were intended to hide its incompetence or negligence.
And, having reviewed the evidence, I understand entirely where Mr M is coming from. Zottos 
primary position was that it withheld Ds funds because of a concern that it would have to 
settle chargebacks. However, its actions and the evidence Ive seen do not support that 
position.
Firstly, in communications with D, Zotto made various contradictory statements. It initially 
said it would settle the balance of Ds account every Wednesday and Friday and that it was 
doing its best to regularize the settlement of Ds account. Zotto gave D no explanation of 
what that meant, or why it was only prepared to release Ds money in tranches.
Then, on 14 September 2022, it said it intended to withhold Ds funds for 180 days as 
security for chargebacks, before saying it would release Ds money at the rate of £5,000 per 
day, before later saying it would settle Ds account if D started receiving payments through 
Zotto again.
On 15 September 2022, Zotto also said that its audit would be complete on 3 October and 
that it would release funds after that date. And I find it unusual that a financial business could 
commit to releasing funds at the end of an audit, before the audit had been completed.
Zottos scattergun approach is not consistent with what I would expect to see from a financial 
institution seeking to protect a legitimate interest, such as guard against future chargebacks. 
And its actions suggest to me that it had an ulterior motive.
After D brought its complaint to our service, it became apparent that Zotto was in financial 
difficulties. And in fact, a petition to wind-up Zotto was entered on 21 September 2023, which 
was followed by a winding-up order on 24 November 2023 and the appointment of 
liquidators on 8 December 2023.
When set against the background of apparent financial difficulties, I would strongly question 
whether Zottos actions were taken in good faith. And Zottos promise to release funds if D 
started using Zotto to receive payments again is particularly concerning and has the feel of 
Zotto holding Ds funds to ransom.Zotto gave no plausible explanation for its actions to D, nor to our service during our 
investigation. Zotto did say that, at the forefront of its review was the unusually high level of 
chargeback disputes raised against D by its customers. But I dont accept that was their true 
motivation. When asked to provide evidence of the unusually high level of chargebacks, 
Zotto sent in evidence of just seven chargeback requests it had received over a 17-month 
period and totalling just £612.39 (i.e. approximately 2% of Ds account balance). And only 
three of those had been raised in 2022, before Zotto blocked Ds account. 
For comparison purposes, the total value of the three chargebacks Zotto says it received 
before the block in 2022 was £276.39. And the total value of the three chargebacks it says it 
received in the preceding year was £286.50. So, the frequency of chargebacks hadnt 
increased at all, and the value of the chargebacks in 2022 before the block was actually 
marginally lower than 2021.
For completeness, in the 15 months since the block, Zotto says it has only received one 
chargeback  in September 2022 for the sum of £49.50.
And even if I were to accept that Zotto had simply acted with incompetence in assessing the 
risk of chargebacks, it didnt release the funds after the 180-day period had expired, which I 
take as a further indication that it had no intention of doing so all along.
Its for all those reasons that I suspect Zotto wasnt acting in good faith when it blocked Ds 
account and continued to withhold its funds.
With that being said, it is not our services role to punish a firm or to make a finding of 
wrongful activity. Simply, my role in this case is to assess the evidence provided by both 
parties and assess whether or not Zotto has treated its customer fairly and reasonably. And 
if it has not, to award D compensation. So, while I share Mr Ms concerns about Zottos 
actions, my decision focusses only on whether Zotto treated its customer fairly and 
reasonably, and if not, what loss D suffered as a result.
Zotto claims its right to withhold Ds funds for 180 days is unfettered, but our service is free 
to decide whether Zotto has acted fairly and reasonably in applying its terms and conditions 
in a given circumstance. And, giving Zotto the benefit of some considerable doubt that it was 
acting in good faith, Ive looked to see if its decision was fair and reasonable. Having done 
so, Im not persuaded that it was. 
There was no increase in the quantity or value of chargebacks leading up to the account 
block, so Zottos rationale doesnt stand up to scrutiny. That being said, based on the 
evidence Zotto submitted, there was clearly a risk of some chargebacks being received. And 
I agree with our investigator that it would have been reasonable for Zotto to withhold £300 to 
cover that risk, given that level would have provided sufficient cover for the last two years 
and given there was no compelling evidence to suggest an increased risk to Zotto.
Because of what Ive said, it follows that Zotto must release Ds balance in full immediately 
and pay compensation for the losses D suffered. Based on what both parties told our 
service, our investigator stated the closing balance was £30,438.58. And given neither 
parties challenged that figure, I accept it to be the correct balance Zotto should release to D.
In assessing the loss D suffered because of Zottos errors, Ive looked at what Mr M told our 
investigator. He said Ds ability to buy stock was impaired because it had less available 
cash, and that it had to withdraw a sponsorship deal it had agreed with a local rugby club 
because it couldnt afford to follow-through owing to Zottos actions.D wasnt able to evidence the amount it thought it had lost out on as a result of Zottos 
failings. And proving claims such as this is always difficult. But I accept that being denied 
access to over £30,000 would have caused D some level of financial loss. And I take the 
view that simple interest at the rate of 8% on the balance unfairly withheld represents fair 
compensation for that loss.
As to the period for which Zotto must pay interest, our investigator felt that should start from 
the date Zotto closed Ds account. Given my suspicion that Zottos actions were not 
motivated by its contractual rights, there is an argument that the date should start earlier. 
But, Ive spoken with Mr M who has agreed to accept the date our investigator suggested. 
And Im satisfied 16 November 2022 is not unreasonable or unfair to Zotto given Zottos 
terms of business say it can withhold funds for 180 days and given Zotto had started 
withholding fund earlier than that date.
Given that Zotto has not released Ds funds, interest shall continue to accrue until the date of 
settlement.
I also accept that D would have experienced a fair degree of inconvenience and an element 
of damage to its reputation as a result of Zottos actions. Ds director, Mr M, had his attention 
diverted away from Ds day to day business for an extended period of time, owing to Zottos 
failings and its poor service, and withdrawing from a sponsorship deal at the 11th hour will 
have caused a degree of damage to Ds reputation. Our investigator awarded £400 in total in 
this regard and, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that represents fair 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zotto Limited must:
1. Release Ds full account balance of £30,438.58 immediately;
2. Pay D simple interest at the rate of 8% on the above sum from 16 November 2022 to 
the date it releases the account balance to D; and
3. Pay D £400 in respect of the inconvenience and damage to reputation it caused D to 
suffer.
The above sums are payable immediately upon D accepting this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman