DRN-3215152
The complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen 
Finance declined his application for refinance.
What happened
Mr B had a finance agreement with VWFS. Towards the end of the agreement he applied to 
refinance the balloon payment. At the same time, he also applied for finance on a new car. 
VWFS declined the application for new finance but didnt make this clear when it wrote to Mr 
B and he thought his application to refinance the balloon payment had been declined. In fact, 
the application to refinance the balloon payment had been approved. Mr B contacted VWFS 
who incorrectly advised him that his application to refinance the balloon payment had been 
declined and gave him advice about handing the car back. Mr B handed the car back at the 
end of the agreement but later found out that there had been an error. He complained to 
VWFS and said that if he hadnt been given the incorrect advice about his refinance 
application, he would have kept the car. He said hed suffered a financial loss as a result 
because hed had to obtain another car on a new finance agreement. VWFS upheld the 
complaint and waived Mr Bs excess mileage charges but he remained unhappy and 
complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that VWFS had given incorrect advice to Mr B about 
his refinance application and that I thought (if the correct advice had been given) Mr B would 
have decided to proceed with the refinance and keep the car. I considered the impact that 
the error had on Mr B, including the fact that hed had to enter into another finance 
agreement to purchase a new car. I explained why I didnt think it was reasonable to ask 
VWFS to refund all the deposit Mr B had paid, because hed benefited from this during the 
term of the agreement. I explained why I thought the correct approach was to compensate 
Mr B for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered as a result of the error and awarded 
compensation of £1000.
VWFS accepted my provisional decision. Mr B said he wanted to clarify some points and 
included details of his current finance agreement. He said he hadnt received any 
compensation from VWFS so far, even though VWFS had said it had paid £500 as originally 
recommended by the investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of the further points made by Mr B and Ive looked at his current finance 
agreement. Having done so, my decision remains the same. I appreciate that Mr B wouldnt 
have chosen to enter into a new finance agreement and would have preferred to keep his 
old car, but Ive taken account of this in my award of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Ive noted that Mr B has said he hasnt received the £500 which VWFS says 
it has paid already, so Im asking VWFS now to look into this and confirm if and when this 
was paid. If the £500 hasnt been paid, the sum of £1000 is payable to Mr B.  
Putting things right
To put things right, VWFS must pay compensation of £1000 to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
must pay compensation of £1000 to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman