DRN-3997463
The complaint
Mr A, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2016, Mr A acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr A was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £253.04. Mr A also paid a 
deposit of £400. The total repayable under the agreement was £15,329.36.
Mr A got into difficulties with meeting his regular repayments and in January 2017 he was 
issued with a default notice. The car was sold at auction in April 2017 with the remaining 
outstanding balance being passed to third party in December 2019. 
Mr A says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr A.
In my provisional decision dated 10 February 2023 I explained why I didnt think that 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. I set out an extract below:
Moneybarn says the credit check completed showed that Mr A had taken out some new 
credit in the months prior to the agreement and had seem to be managing those well. Mr A 
had however defaulted on borrowing in the previous 29 months and that hed entered into an 
individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). Moneybarn obtained agreement from the insolvency 
practitioner dealing with Mr As arrangement that he was able to enter into the agreement 
provided he was deemed by the finance company to have returned is previous car in good 
condition. But given the fact that Mr A clearly had recently had financial difficulties and had 
experienced problems with his previous car finance agreement, I think it would have been 
sensible for Moneybarn to have gathered  more detail about Mr As financial circumstances 
before granting him the agreement.
Moneybarn obtained confirmation of Mr As financial situation at the time by requesting two 
months of bank statements. These appeared to show he was earning a net monthly income 
of around £1,400. But I cant see that it asked him for more details, for instance by way of a 
breakdown, about his expenditure, such as his housing costs and day-to-day living 
expenses. I dont think from what Ive seen that the bank statements provided enough detail 
about this. Although Moneybarn had completed a credit check, this wont have indicated 
what Mr As regular living expenses were. Without knowing more about Mr As regular 
committed expenditure, Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate 
checks. 
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Ive also kept in mind the comments made by 
Moneybarn in response to our adjudicators view. 
Ive noted that Mr A was making occasional use of his overdraft in the three months before 
the agreement and that his overdraft did on one occasion reach about £500. Ive also seen 
that he had some direct debits returned in the three months before he took out the 
agreement. That suggests that Mr A may have been experiencing some difficulty managing  
his finances at this point and that they might have been stretched. Mr A told us he was 
paying his family £400 per month by way of a contribution towards rent, but  as Moneybarn 
has pointed out - it would be helpful to have more detail about where this is shown on his 
bank statements 
As things stand therefore, without receiving further details about Mr As monthly outgoings at 
the time, including better information about how he was paying his family for his housing 
costs that can be supported by bank statements, I dont think Ive seen enough so far about 
Mr As financial situation. So I cant fairly say that before he took the agreement better 
checks by Moneybarn would likely have shown he didnt have enough disposable income to 
make the repayments required under the agreement. 
It follows that I am not currently persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Given that neither Mr A nor Moneybarn have responded to my provisional decision with any 
further evidence or information within the required time-scale, I seen no reason to depart 
from my finding that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly in approving the conditional sale 
agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman