DRN-3608768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited (Alwyn) have unfairly 
declined their legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known and has been detailed by our Investigator 
previously, so Ive summarised events. 
Mr and Mrs D bought a new property. Following the purchase, around July 2021, 
they had their roof replaced by Company A. 
On 9 September 2021. Mr and Mrs D took out their LEI policy. 
Mr and Mrs D say they became aware there were issues with the roof towards the 
end of September. Unable to contact Company A, they employed another contractor 
(Company B) to carry out the works. 
In October 2021, Company B repaired the roof and said Company A had carried out 
poor workmanship. 
Around this time, Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their LEI cover for related to the 
alleged poor workmanship dispute with Company A.
Mr and Mrs D say Alwyn declined the claim on the basis the issue predated the 
inception of their insurance policy. They complained to Alwyn about this, but didnt 
receive a response. 
Our Investigator has reached out to Alwyn on several occasions to understand its 
side of events, but it did not respond. So, our Investigator assessed the complaint 
based on the available evidence and upheld this complaint. 
She didnt think Alwyn had fairly relied on its exclusion, and that Mr and Mrs D only 
became aware the issues with their roof could give rise to a claim under their 
insurance policy after the inception of the policy. So, she said Alwyn should 
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ds claim and pay them £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them for not being able to progress their claim.
As Alwyn hasnt responded to our Investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me for 
an Ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive explained above, Alwyn has had ample opportunity to provide any evidence 
or commentary to support its position. And despite many chasers across several 
months, weve heard nothing back. And so, Ive had to reach this decision based on 
the limited information I have. Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ds roof was damaged 
as a result of a storm in December 2021, Im only considering their complaint about 
the decline of the LEI claim. Any complaint about their buildings insurance policy will 
need to be considered separately. 
Alwyn declined the claim as it said it was pre-existing. So, Ive reviewed the policy 
wording. This says theres no cover for Claims arising before this insurance started. 
And it defines that as: Any event or dispute which an insured person was aware of, 
or should reasonably have been aware of, which could give rise to a claim under this 
insurance and existed or happened before this insurance first started. 
So, I have to consider if Mr and Mrs D were aware that the workmanship of their roof 
were, or should have reasonably been aware, that this could give rise to a claim prior 
to taking out the policy.
Im satisfied that whilst the roof was replaced prior to the inception of the policy, the 
issues of poor workmanship didnt come to light until after the policy was incepted. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs D didnt experience any issues with the roof until 
towards the end of September 2021 following a storm, so it appears they werent 
unhappy with the work or had any reason to question the quality of repairs. 
It seems Alwyn has accepted an insured peril took place, and is choosing to rely on 
this exclusion. So, the burden is on Alwyn to show that exclusion fairly applies. Im 
satisfied it hasnt done that in this case as its provided no evidence to support this 
decline or any commentary to support its reasoning  and so, Im satisfied it was 
wrong to decline the claim on this basis in the circumstances of this case.    
Im also satisfied that £300 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs D. This is taking into account the impact of Alwyns mistake in 
declining Mr and Mrs Ds LEI claim and for how the resolution of this matter has been 
protracted, due to Alwyns unresponsiveness. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am upholding this complaint. I direct Alwyn Insurance Company 
Limited to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ds legal expenses insurance claim under the remaining 
terms of the policy. And to pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Alwyn must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs 
D accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman