DRN-3029305
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but my colleague said the offer Halifax 
had made, to refund some of the commission it took, was a fair way to resolve things. Mr Cs 
representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event Halifax has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr C has said the PPI was just included with his card. But the sample application form 
Halifax has sent us has a box to mark if the PPI was wanted. So this makes me think the 
box on his application form wouldve been marked if the PPI was wanted and left blank if 
the PPI wasnt wanted. With this in mind, on balance what Mr C has said is not enough 
to make me think the PPI was just included with his card. On balance I think its more 
likely Halifax made it clear Mr C didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C, so Halifax had to check it was right for him. And 
the evidence about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, shows it wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr C was eligible for the cover and didnt have 
any means to fall back on if he couldnt work, so he had a need for cover. Also he was 
self-employed but the policy terms wouldnt have meant this made it difficult for him to 
claim. Also, although hes said he was in a high-risk occupation, there werent any limits 
or special restrictions for high risk occupations and nothing else about his work situation 
wouldve have made it difficult for him to claim.
Mr C has told us he didnt have any health problems at the time of the sale. Hes told us 
he has suffered from a particular health issue at times, but he hasnt said when. If hed 
suffered from it in the year before the sale or was aware of it at the start, its likely the 
policy wouldnt have covered it if it recurred in the first year of the policy. The PPI also 
had limitations or exclusions on claims for back pain, placing more onerous evidential 
requirements on such claims. But bearing in mind all Mr C has told us, and hes told us 
his health issue had never kept him off work, what I have doesnt persuade me this 
exclusion made the policy unsuitable for Mr C, given what it would still cover and Mr Cs 
lack of other means to pay his card with if he couldnt work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and I dont think he wouldve done so 
without having an idea of what it was for - so it looks to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for him, as I concluded above, and it seems like it 
couldve been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
Overall, I think the PPI was similar enough to what its likely Mr C reasonably thought he 
was buying from the information its likely he was given  and, with all this in mind, I dont 
think he wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he wouldve still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr C wouldve still taken the PPI. I think the policy couldve provided a 
useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment, given 
his circumstances at the sale. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely 
Mr C thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve have taken it 
in any event.
Mr Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr C.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Cs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr C should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr C about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr C wouldnt have taken the policy 
had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But, in this case, Halifax has told us the commission for Mr Cs PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and, based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied the commission in Mr Cs case was less than half the cost 
of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- The effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr C about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr C unfairly. 
This means it doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mr C some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate him as if it had treated him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
my final decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr C paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
Bank of Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Mr C if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman