DRN-2037954
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC as he says he paid off a credit card yet the 
balance remains outstanding.
What happened
Mr S had two credit cards with Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard and also 
referred to within this decision as Barclays). Earlier this year, he increased the borrowing on 
his Barclays loan to help settle his outstanding credit card balances of £1,600 and £1,050 
respectively. In March, Mr S says he made two payments to each of his Barclaycard 
accounts  firstly £1,600 to account ending 8005 and secondly, £1,050 to account ending 
2006. 
Soon after, Mr S called Barclays to close both of the accounts. The staff member 
acknowledged Mr S had said hed paid the balances, but she said the payments were 
pending at that point in time. In the course of closing the accounts, she ran through some of 
the usual terms  but mentioned they might not be relevant given Mr S had paid the final 
balances. Barclays then sent Mr S two letters to confirm the closure of each account. 
Mr S also queried an interest payment which had been applied on one of the accounts  as 
hed said hed cleared the balance, Barclays refunded the £17.01 that had been applied.
The following week, Mr S was looking at his Barclays app and was concerned to see that 
one of the credit cards still showed an outstanding balance. So he called Barclays to query 
this. It wasnt something they could resolve on the phone, as they said they needed to find 
out where the payment had gone, so an investigation was opened and a temporary credit of 
£1,050 was placed on the account ending 2006 to reduce the balance to nil.
Barclays looked into what had happened but explained that one of Mr Ss transfers had 
failed  this was why there was a balance remaining on the second card. They explained 
that the funds were likely held pending authorisation, but ultimately they didnt clear. So they 
removed the temporary credit as the balance was still due. 
Mr S remained unhappy and there was some further back and forth with Barclays. But as 
things remained unresolved, Mr S asked for our help. He said hed had letters from Barclays 
saying his accounts had been closed, so he was sure hed paid both cards off. He also 
asked us to consider the call recordings where the interest was refunded on the premise 
hed cleared the balance. 
Mr S shared an excerpt of his statement, the account closure letters and the refunded 
interest letter. He was certain hed made the payments and wasnt liable for the £1,050. One 
of our investigators had a look at what had happened  she could see a payment of £1,600 
was made to card ending 8005. But she couldnt see that there was a payment of £1,050 
made to card ending 2006. She asked Mr S for evidence of the £1,050 debiting his account. 
But Mr S didnt have this evidence to share  he said that the call recordings combined with 
the temporary credit was enough to prove his attempted payment. 
Because of this, our investigator didnt agree Barclays had done something wrong. She said 
she couldnt see evidence that the payment of £1,050 had been made and instead could see 
it had been declined. She also thought Barclays hadnt fallen short in how they handled Mr 
Ss concerns. Mr S remained unhappy and asked where his money had gone. So as things 
remained unresolved, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I recognise this will be very disappointing for Mr S, I agree with 
what our investigator said for similar reasons. 
Mr S shared a section of his bank account statement with us  that clearly showed a 
payment of £1,600 was made to Barclaycard in March. But there is no further evidence of a 
payment of £1,050 being made to Barclaycard, or indeed any other recipient name.
Ive also reviewed an internal screenshot Barclays have shared with us  this is an activity 
log and shows a £1,600 payment is requested and successful just under a minute later. It 
then shows a £1,050 payment is requested but then declined just under a minute later. 
So from what I can see, Mr S did indeed attempt to transfer the second sum, but it failed. I 
can appreciate that Mr Ss account may well have shown the second sum to have debited 
the account at the time, but as Barclays explained, this was just when the transaction was 
pending. As the payment failed, the money ultimately remained in Mr Ss bank account.
Mr S says the account closure, interest refund and call recordings prove his balance was 
cleared. But they dont. He could close his credit card accounts at any time with outstanding 
balances  it would just mean there was no further way of spending more on the cards but 
the balances still needed to be settled. The refunded interest seems to have been on the 
premise that he had indeed cleared the balance, but the staff member wasnt to know the 
transfer had failed at that point. And Ive listened to the call recordings but they are simply Mr 
S explaining hes made the payment, and the staff members trying to help him at that 
moment in time. It was the subsequent investigation that confirmed Mr Ss payment hadnt 
cleared, so the staff members couldnt have known this at the time.
Barclays have also shared a call note from June where Mr S was calling from one of their 
branches  this call recording isnt available for me to listen to, but the notes say Mr S 
agreed he hadnt paid the bill nor had the money left his account. But that nevertheless, he 
wouldnt be making a payment as he had a statement showing a nil balance. 
Mr S may have had a nil balance while the payment was pending or while the temporary 
credit was on his account, but as I cannot see his payment was successfully made, I cant 
agree with him in that there ought to be no outstanding balance.
In summary, the evidence we have shows Mr Ss payment request was declined  and Mr S 
hasnt been able to show us the £1,050 was debited from his account despite this being 
something that could be easily proven by a statement. 
So for the reasons explained, while I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling I dont uphold his 
complaint as I havent been satisfied that Barclays made a mistake, or otherwise did 
anything wrong. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman