DRN-2773249
The complaint
Mr B complains Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Avivas) decision to void his motor insurance 
policy from the date it was taken out is unfair. He says the information he gave at the time of 
the application was correct.
 
What happened
Mr B took out a motor insurance policy with Aviva online in July 2020. On 12 August 2020, it 
got in touch with him to ask for evidence of his address  specifically utility bills or a council 
tax bill. Mr B called Aviva two days later to explain he didnt have the required evidence for 
the address he gave on the application as that was his parents address. So he asked if he 
could change the policy details to what he considered at the time to be his main address 
(his other address) where he paid these types of bills. He explained his car was registered 
to his parents address but hed moved back to the other address on 3 August 2020. 
As a result of this conversation, Aviva voided Mr Bs policy from the inception date which he 
thinks was unfair. Initially he said hed been staying at his parents address since 
21 March 2020 due to the government restrictions in response to the Coronavirus pandemic. 
He said he couldnt afford to stay in his own property as his income had reduced and he 
wasnt sure how long this would be for. So at the time of the application, he considered 
himself living at his parents address. Hes since explained he always considered his 
parents address to be his main address  he uses it for several financial matters and he 
regularly goes between the two addresses.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Aviva refunded the premiums he paid for the policy as a 
gesture of goodwill. But it said it wouldnt reinstate his policy. It highlighted that Mr B had 
searched for motor insurance quotes online at his other address on multiple occasions 
between June and July 2020 and it was more expensive. It said if he wasnt sure which 
address to use, he shouldve asked. Mr B says he searched for quotes using both addresses 
because he was trying to plan financially should he move. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr B asked our service to look into things. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She thought the questions Aviva asked him at the time were 
clear and he hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. She was 
satisfied Mr Bs other address was his main address and she thought he had several 
opportunities to inform Aviva of his correct address  both during the application process and 
when he moved on 3 August 2020  but he didnt. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He maintains his actions were genuine and 
honest and he doesnt think the question about his address was clear during the application. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B is very worried about whats happened  so I thank him for taking the time to 
give us the information he has. And Id like to assure him Ive thought carefully about 
everything hes said. But I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires customers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable person. And if a customer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
Aviva says Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking 
out the policy. And in this case, I agree. 
Ive looked carefully at the relevant sections of the online application Mr B completed. This 
asked him what his postcode was. I appreciate hes questioned whether Aviva gave him 
enough information to answer this question accurately. But in this case, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr B to interpret the question, What is your postcode, using its general 
meaning  specifically, what the postcode of his main address is. I can also see the 
screenshot weve been given of the page, Information provided by you, asked Mr B to get 
in touch if any of the details recorded were incorrect, including his address. So I think the 
questions were clear during this process and if Mr B wasnt sure what the correct answer 
was, based on his circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to find out. 
Mr B says the address he gave on the application was his correct address. But based on 
everything Ive seen, I dont agree. I say this because hes told our service he moved to his 
other address in November 2018 and it seems to me he lived and worked there since then. 
I appreciate at the time of the application, Mr B said he was staying with his parents due to 
the pandemic  and he didnt know how much longer hed be there for. But hes also told us 
this was because he couldnt afford to live at his other address due to a temporary salary 
reduction  and he intended to move back once his salary increased again. I can see that 
reduction ended around a month before he took out the policy. Considering he returned to 
his other property shortly after this, Im satisfied at the time of the application he wouldve 
been reasonably aware he wouldnt be staying at his parents house indefinitely. 
Aviva has also given us records of quotes Mr B obtained through other websites shortly 
before this application. This shows he obtained them using his other address  and I can see 
they were much higher. I appreciate Mr B said he did this because he was trying to plan 
financially, should his work need him to return to the office. But this is inconsistent with what 
hes told us about always considering his parents address as his main address regardless of 
previously working in the office. So, taking everything together, I think its more likely Mr B 
obtained these quotes because he did consider his other address as his main address. 
I know Mr Bs now said hes always considered his parents address as his main address. 
But I can see he initially told us his other address was and, hed told Aviva this too. Mr B has 
given us reasons for these discrepancies but I also note he did ask Aviva on 14 August 2020 
to change his details to his other address. And I dont think he wouldve done that if he 
thought it was already correct. So, I dont think I can rely on what hes said.
Overall, taking everything together, I think Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering Avivas questions about his address. So Ive also 
considered whether Aviva wouldve done something different if Mr B had answered the 
questions correctly. Avivas given us screenshots of its sales process including a list of assumptions its made 
about Mr Bs circumstances for him to agree or decline. This says the vehicle hes insuring is 
registered at his home address. As above, Im satisfied Mr Bs home address  and the one 
that shouldve been recorded on the policy  was his other address. But hes told us his 
vehicle was registered at his parents address. 
Had Mr B answered all of the questions on the application correctly  including answering no 
to the assumptions  Aviva has given us a further screenshot to show the application 
wouldve been declined. This means Mr Bs answers to Avivas questions made a difference 
 he was covered when accurate answers would have meant he wouldnt be. So Im 
satisfied in this case Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
The remedy available to Aviva is different depending on whether the misrepresentation was 
careless, deliberate or reckless. For it to be deliberate or reckless, Mr B wouldve known the 
information was untrue or misleading and that it was relevant to the insurer. Or he didnt care 
whether it was untrue, misleading or relevant. And in this case, I think Mr B did know  or 
didnt care  the information he was giving wasnt entirely accurate. And I think he wouldve 
known it made a difference because of the quotes hed seen.
Aviva refunded Mr Bs premiums as a gesture of goodwill in this case. But having looked at 
the remedies available to it under CIDRA, I dont think it needed to. So, for the reasons Ive 
given, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman