DRN-4071999
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as M, is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited defaulted
its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) without reason.
Ms complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr O.
What happened
In June 2020, M successfully applied to Starling for a £45,000 BBL and received the loan
funds that same month. M also held a business current account (BCA) with Starling, from
which the payments for the BBL were scheduled to be made. In November 2021, Starling
placed Ms BCA under review, and in December 2021, Starling told M that its BCA would be
closed and that payments to the BBL would need to be made from an alternative account.
However, on 26 January 2022, shortly after M had applied to extend the term of the BBL via
the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) option, Starling told M that an act of default had occurred on
the BBL and that full repayment of the outstanding BBL balance was now required.
Starling then terminated the BBL agreement four days later, on 31 January, and offset
£97.67 from Ms closed BCA against the outstanding BBL balance. Mr O didnt feel that an
act of default had occurred on the BBL and as such felt Starlings actions were unfair. So, he
raised a complaint on Ms behalf.
Starling looked at Ms complaint but didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong, although
they declined to explain to Mr O exactly what act of default had occurred on the BBL. Mr O
wasnt satisfied with Starlings response, so he referred Ms complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Starling had acted unfairly
in how theyd managed this situation, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O remained
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 February 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to
declare that Starling have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such 
declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into 
consideration.
In this instance, having reviewed all the information available to me at this time, I 
dont think that Starlings actions in defaulting Ms BBL were fair.
One reason I say this is because, having been asked by this service to specify 
exactly why the BBL was considered to have defaulted, Starling explained that the 
act of default was the BBL loan payments that had been missed by M on the 
account.
I find Starlings explanation here to be problematic for several reasons. Firstly, Ms 
BBL account wasnt in arrears when Starling issued the notice to M that an act of 
default had occurred on the BBL, which they did on 26 January 2022. And all 
payments due on the BBL prior to Starling sending the letter to M had been made on 
time, apart from the December 2021 payment, which had been missed by M on 27 
December 2021, but which was paid by M the next day, on 28 December 2021.
As such, Starling appear to have taken the decision to default Ms BBL here because 
one payment had been made one day late. This is unfair by any reasonable standard 
and doesnt conform to the industry accepted guidelines for defaulting accounts as 
laid out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr O has always contended that no act of default occurred on the BBL, and given the
information available to me, I agree. As such, Im provisionally upholding this 
complaint in Ms favour and instructing Starling to reinstate the BBL within 30 days of 
the date of any future final decision I may issue on this complaint which confirms this 
instruction. Starling must also then allow M a further 30 days to reset the monthly 
payments towards the BBL from its bank account before the first payment towards 
the reinstated BBL should be due.
Starling must also take any action necessary to ensure that Ms BBL can benefit from 
the PAYG option M applied for shortly before Starling unfairly defaulted the BBL 
account.
Additionally, Starling must also reimburse to M the money it offset from Ms BCA 
towards the unfairly defaulted BBL balance, along with 8% simple interest on that 
amount calculated from the date of offset to the date the amount is reimbursed to M.
Mr O has explained that he feels M incurred losses because of the BBL being unfairly
defaulted by Starling. This includes that a contract for consultancy services was lost 
because of the defaulted BBL appearing on Ms credit reporting.
Ive carefully considered what Mr O has said about Ms consequential losses, but I 
dont feel there is sufficient evidence to support Ms claim. I say this because while 
Mr O has explained what happened, he hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
this lost contract, such as any pre-contract negotiation documents or an official 
confirmation from the company in question that it did withdraw from the contract 
specifically and only because of the presence of the defaulted BBL on Ms credit 
reporting. Similarly, an invoice supplied by Mr O for legal expenses incurred by M in 
dealing with Starling lacks the detail required to confirm that this cost was incurred by 
M solely as a consequence of Starlings unfair actions.
As such, my provisional instructions to Starling here wont include that they must 
reimburse M for these claimed consequential losses as M would like. However, I am satisfied that M has incurred ongoing significant inconvenience and disruption by 
Starlings actions surrounding the unfair defaulting of the BBL, and so my instructions 
here will include that Starling must pay compensation to M of £450, which I feel fairly 
compensates M for the impact of these events and the trouble and inconvenience it 
has been unfairly and unreasonably subject to here.
Starling didnt respond to my provisional decision. However, Mr O did respond and asked for 
my instruction to Starling to include that the balance of Ms BBL should be written off. 
However, M has received the BBL balance and had the benefit of it. In such circumstances, 
it will almost always be the position of this service that its fair that the recipient of a loan 
amount should repay the money that its received. And I see no reason why this shouldnt be 
the case in this instance. 
As such, Im satisfied that my provisional instruction  that Starling must reinstate the BBL 
and allow M to repay the outstanding balance in line with the terms of the agreement  is a 
fair outcome here. And it would also be expected, once the BBL has been reinstated in line 
with my instructions, that Starling would resume normal credit file reporting for the BBL.
Mr O has also provided further documents in support of the claim for consequential losses 
that hes made. Id like to thank Mr O for providing these further documents. However, upon 
consideration, I dont feel that they provide sufficient proof that M did incur the consequential 
losses that Mr O is claiming here, and so I wont be upholding this aspect of M's complaint.
The reason I take this position is because Mr O hasnt provided any of the supplementary 
evidence  such as emails and letters detailing the negotiations of the contract which Mr O 
seeks to claim against  that this service would expect to be provided in support of such 
claims and which were requested by us. Additionally, despite this service reaching out to the 
third-party company involved in the contract with M, none of the documents or information 
that this service has received have been provided by that third-party company directly, but 
instead have been provided by Mr O himself. 
In this absence of this direct confirmation from the third-party company as well as the 
absence of supporting supplementary documents, I dont feel that sufficient information has 
been provided to enable me to conclude to a requisite degree that M have incurred the 
consequential losses that Mr O claims here, such that I would consider issuing an instruction 
to Starling for them to reimburse the claimed amount to M. 
It may be possible for M to pursue this aspect of its complaint via alternative channels, and 
this final decision shouldnt be considered as construing anything beyond or other than my 
own professional opinion on this matter, taken in light of the specific information and 
evidence provided to me at this time. 
All of which means that my position on this complaint remains as Ive explained it in my 
provisional decision above. And it therefore follows that Ill be upholding this complaint in Ms 
favour on that basis accordingly. 
Putting things right
Starling must reinstate Ms BBL within 30 days of the date that M accept this final decision, 
should M choose to accept it. 
Starling must then give notice of the reinstated BBL to M and allow M a further 30 days to 
reset the monthly payments towards the BBL from its bank account before the first payment 
towards the reinstated BBL should be due.Starling must amend Ms credit file to remove any adverse reporting, including the default, 
for the time period in question. In short, M should not incur any adverse credit file reporting 
as a result of Starlings actions here. 
Starling must also take any action necessary to ensure that Ms BBL can benefit from the 
PAYG option M applied for shortly before Starling unfairly defaulted the BBL account.
Starling must also reimburse to M the money it offset from Ms BCA towards the unfairly 
defaulted BBL balance, along with 8% simple interest on that amount calculated from the 
date of offset to the date the amount is reimbursed to M.
Finally, Starling must make a payment of £450 to M as compensation for the inconvenience 
that M has incurred here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman