DRN-4492043
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr E was persuaded to invest in a foreign company, having been promised 
exceptional returns. Unfortunately, they turned out to be scammers. When Mr E tried to 
withdraw, he was persuaded to pay various fees and taxes, until he realised hed been 
scammed. In total, he sent the scammers around £56,000 over the course of 7 months.
Mr E reported the scam to Lloyds in 2023. They contacted the receiving bank, but were 
unable to recover the money. Lloyds didnt think they were liable for Mr Es loss.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Lloyds didnt have sufficient reason to intervene at the time, as the payments 
were broadly in line with Mr Es previous account activity.
Mr E didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr E fell victim to a scam, and that he was going through a very difficult 
time more generally, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate this cant have been an easy 
matter for him to face, and I appreciate why he feels that his money should be returned. Its 
worth keeping in mind that its the scammers who were primarily responsible for the scam, 
and who really owe Mr E his money back. But I can only consider what Lloyds did. Having 
carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly hold 
Lloyds liable for Mr Es loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr E authorised the payments involved. So although he didnt intend 
the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations he is liable for the 
loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, Lloyds had an obligation to follow his 
instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments 
which a customer authorises them to make. 
Lloyds should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Lloyds should have 
done more in Mr Es case.
However, I dont think the payments involved were so unusual or out of character that Lloyds 
needed to intervene. While these were large payments to a foreign payee, in the months 
before this Mr E had frequently been making large or larger genuine payments, including of 
amounts which dwarfed the largest payment involved here. And those were made to quite a 
variety of payees. The scam payments were also spaced out over a lengthy period, with 
significant gaps between payments, and no reports of anything going wrong in that time. So 
Im afraid I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds needed to intervene here.
Further, I should note that towards the start of the scam payments, Lloyds happened to talk 
to Mr E about an unrelated matter. As part of that, they gave him detailed warnings about 
this exact type of investment scam, along with advice about how to spot and avoid it. For 
example, they explained how the scammers were likely to contact him, that theyd often have 
convincing websites or platforms, that theyd often set up trade accounts, that theyd offer 
unusually high returns, that theyd encourage further payments by pretending youd made 
exceptional returns, and that theyd ask for a series of fees or other payments before 
allowing any withdrawals. Lloyds told Mr E about the FCA register and said that not being 
regulated was a good sign that an investment was likely a scam. So Lloyds did provide 
detailed and relevant warnings, but unfortunately they werent heeded.
Ive also considered what Lloyds did to try to recover Mr Es money after he told Lloyds 
about the scam. Unfortunately, Mr E only told Lloyds about this in 2023. And its a common 
tactic for scammers to move on the money as quickly as possible, before the victim realises 
what happened. Further, because the payments were made internationally, it was much 
more difficult to get any money back. So Im afraid it was never likely that Lloyds would be 
able to help here after so long. And indeed, the receiving bank didnt get back to Lloyds. Im 
afraid theres nothing more they can reasonably do.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr E, I cant fairly conclude that 
Lloyds should be held responsible for his loss. And so I cant tell Lloyds to refund Mr Es 
money in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman