DRN-2818369
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for an annual multi trip insurance policy.
 
What happened
On 24 September 2019, Mr and Mrs R took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to 
cover trips taken worldwide for up to 35 days duration. The policy was provided by Great 
Lakes. This cover started on 24 September 2019 and ran until 23 September 2020. In March 
2020, Mr and Mrs R also paid an additional premium to include travel disruption extension 
cover to their policy. In total they paid £1108.65 in premiums for this policy, which included a 
discount.
Because of the global pandemic, Mr and Mrs Rs trip was cancelled and on 20 May 2020, 
they contacted Great Lakes to cancel the policy and request a refund of their premium. 
Great Lakes said that as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, 
Mr and Mrs R were not entitled to a refund of the premium.
However, Great Lakes said it would be willing to offer a pro-rata refund of £302.14. This was 
initially in the form of a voucher that could be put towards purchasing a 15 months annual 
policy for the price of 12 or the voucher could be used to purchase a deferred 12-month 
policy  which Mr and Mrs R could choose to begin within 12 months of purchase. The 
voucher could also be used towards a UK only annual policy  with the potential to upgrade 
destination at a later date (Great Lakes has subsequently agreed to offer this as a voucher 
which is valid for 36 months). But the initial offer didnt include any refund of the additional 
premium for the travel disruption extension cover option purchased.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with this offer, so they complained to Great Lakes and brought 
their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 24 September 2019 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund of the policy in the form of a voucher, 
including the travel disruption extension cover option, from the date Mr and Mrs R requested 
that the policy was cancelled. This brought the offer to £320.87, however, more recently, this 
has been recalculated and the investigator has said the voucher amount should be £365.64. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators view, but Mr and R didnt agree. They felt they 
should be able to receive a pro-rata refund in cash, rather than by way of a voucher.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr and Mrs Rs 
cooling-off period ended on 8 October 2019. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 20 May 
2020. So, Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. 
The policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions  whereas the Covid-19 global pandemic has had a far-reaching impact, affecting 
a large number of Great Lakes policyholders. Im not persuaded that this type of situation is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover.
Ive also considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the 
circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr and Mrs R with a credit 
voucher for the unused portion of their cover, from the date they cancelled the policy, is fair 
and reasonable. 
The voucher value of £365.64 has been calculated based on the unused period of the travel 
insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs R paid for this policy was for cover from 24 
September 2019 to the 23 September 2020. The value of the voucher which Great Lakes 
has offered to Mr and Mrs R is equivalent to 127 unused days of cover from 20 May 2020 
until the original end date of the insurance policy. This is reflective of the fact that Great 
Lakes wouldnt have been covering any further risk under the policy from the date the policy 
was cancelled. This voucher offer now also includes payment of the travel disruption 
extension cover option, from the date Mr and Mrs R asked for the policy to be cancelled, 
which I think is the right thing to do.Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Great Lakes will not provide a cash refund of the insurance 
premium, rather than a credit voucher. In considering whether I think Great Lakes should 
make a pro-rata refund of their premiums by way of a voucher or a monetary refund, Ive 
thought about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties. Mr and Mrs R have said 
they dont want a voucher as they are unlikely to travel abroad, especially taking into 
consideration their health and age. I understand why they may have reached that decision, 
especially considering the current circumstances - but this view may change. Im also 
mindful of the fact that the voucher is valid for 36 months, giving Mr and Mrs R time to 
consider their choice. Taking everything into account, I dont find the terms of Great Lakes 
voucher unreasonably restrictive, so Im satisfied the voucher is a fair offer in the 
circumstances. Im not persuaded that Great Lakes has to offer a monetary refund on this 
occasion.
 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to provide Mr and Mrs R with a pro-rata refund, in the form of a credit 
voucher valid for 36 months, of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel 
insurance policy, including the travel disruption extension cover option. This has already 
been recalculated to a sum of £365.64. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint in part.
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right as Ive outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman