DRN-3955093
The complaint
Mr S complains that My Finance Club lent to him when it should not have done. He 
complains that the most basic of checks by My Finance Club would have shown the state of 
his finances and led it not to have lent to him. 
What happened
On 31 May 2022 Mr S was approved for a loan of £400 by My Finance Club. It was a payday 
loan and was due to be repaid on 30 June 2022. The total to pay in that one instalment was 
£496. Nothing has been paid by Mr S. 
Mr S complained to My Finance Club soon after taking the loan, received a final response 
letter (FRL) from it and then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
July 2022.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She did not think that My Finance Club had 
done anything wrong. She did not uphold the complaint. Mr S thinks that was the wrong 
outcome. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
My Finance Club had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. My Finance Clubs checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest My Finance Club should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors 
include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
My view is that none of these bullet points applied to Mr Ss situation as he had declared an 
income of around £3,400 a month after tax which My Finance Club had verified by reviewing 
his payslip. I have seen a copy of that payslip. Mr Ss gross salary was over £6,000 a month. 
And I do not consider that to have been a low income. Plus, this was a first loan for a 
relatively modest sum over a relatively modest term. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. But a pattern would not have 
developed here as Mr S took one loan only. 
My Finance Club was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint. Ive decided not to uphold his complaint 
and I explain here. 
My Finance Club carried out proportionate checks as it verified his income, checked his 
credit file which did not show any elements to prompt it to be unduly concerned. There was 
nothing there to indicate that Mr S was in financial difficulties or had been falling behind in 
his payments. The adverse entries (some historic low grade arrears) related to accounts 
which were well before he applied for this one and a lender such as My Finance Club would 
have been used to lending to customers with some adverse credit history. 
The income and expenditure assessment My Finance Club carried out indicated that Mr S 
had enough disposable income to repay the £496 for that one month. 
I have read what Mr S has said that he had several outstanding payday loans when he 
applied for this loan with My Finance Club. The credit search it carried out on Mr S did not 
show that to it. It seems that Mr S was very aware of his financial situation. He may have 
applied for the loan knowing he could not afford it. But I cant now attribute knowledge of that 
to My Finance Club. It carried out the checks Id consider were proportionate for a one loan 
of such modest value. 
Mr S has sent to us his bank account statements from the time around May 2022 and for 
both accounts he had. 
Although he has not explained his spending patterns to us in detail (one set shows multiple 
transactions abroad) I have reviewed them and I can see that there were transactions which 
related to betting and gaming/gambling. 
But, it would have been disproportionate for My Finance Club to have reviewed his bank 
account statements for this loan. So, unless Mr S informed My Finance Club of these 
spending habits, and Ive seen no evidence that he did, then it would not have known, and 
I would not have expected it to have known, of them.In all the circumstances I have decided that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman