DRN-1216596
 
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss L took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch meeting in 
1994.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any paperwork available from the time of the sale, which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place. However, this does make the complaint more difficult to 
decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well 
as what I consider is most likely to have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the 
sale happened and how this may have affected Miss Ls recollection of events.
Miss L says she was led to believe that she wouldnt get the mortgage unless she agreed to 
have PPI. From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence that something different happened in this 
case.
Miss L says that, in 2015, BoS upheld her complaint about PPI in relation to five loans being 
mis-sold. She believes that if she had also complained about the mortgage PPI at that time, 
BoS would have upheld that complaint too. I dont know why BoS upheld those complaints 
about the PPI that Miss L had on her loans. Ive looked at the evidence in this case, to 
decide whether it was likely that PPI was mis-sold alongside Miss Ls mortgage. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Miss L has said and I have no doubt that she has 
provided her genuine recollection of events. But overall I am not persuaded that she wasnt 
given a choice about buying the policy. On balance I consider that she probably decided to 
take it out, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so. A 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss L had 
an interest in protecting her repayments.BoS advised Miss L to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to her, it needed to 
ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Miss Ls circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for her.
Miss L would have received at least three months full pay from her employer if shed been 
off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than 
she would have received full pay for. Miss L has told us that she had some savings, but 
having the policy would have allowed her to retain these or use them to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall I consider that Miss L had a need 
for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss L was affected by any of those 
things. As I think she had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further 
information would have caused her to change her mind.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman