DRN-1496667
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 1991. 
The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave them accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here) I've made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. So on what I 
think is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold 
PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax doesn't have any paperwork from the 
sale. But that's not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it was. The bank says it's 
more likely than not that it made clear the PPI was optional and obtained Mr and Mrs C's 
explicit consent before the sale was concluded. Without stronger evidence, I can't fairly find 
that Halifax didn't make it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs C didn't opt to take 
it out. I can understand they might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. I know they feel strongly that their circumstances were not considered. But based on 
what I know of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. Mr and Mrs C say 
they were both entitled to six months' full pay and six months' half pay if they were sick. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 24 months for each 
successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave them up to 12 months redundancy 
cover which would have allowed them to protect any lump sum redundancy payments, giving 
increased financial stability whilst not working.
Mr and Mrs C also said they had good pensions and an endowment policy but these 
wouldn't help them with mortgage payments in the same way as PPI. They said family would 
have helped but that's not suitable alternative protection, it's not guaranteed and people's circumstances can change. Mr and Mrs C were borrowing a large sum over a long period, 
secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been 
serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if they 
were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).   
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. I don't know when the cost was made clear. But the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. I dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI 
didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs C dont appear to have been affected by any of the main 
exclusions. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind 
about buying it.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:
- Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr and 
Mrs C, that was unfair.
- To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman