DRN-3240575
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement hes been offered by Domestic & General Insurance 
Plc (D&G) under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out insurance with D&G to cover his television and other entertainment equipment. 
The policy provides cover for the repair or replacement of his television due to breakdown or 
accidental damage. In March 2021 Mr S told D&G there was a problem with his television 
and he made a claim under his policy. An engineer decided the television couldnt be 
repaired so D&G agreed to replace it. D&G offered a television which it said was a like for 
like replacement, although it noted that 3D televisions were no longer manufactured so that 
aspect wasnt something it could replace. Mr S wasnt happy with that as he believed there 
were other televisions with better specifications that were more similar to his previous one. 
D&G said the televisions Mr S suggested had better technology than his old one and he 
would need to pay an upgrade fee for those. Mr S wasnt willing to pay the upgrade fee or 
accept the television it had suggested. So D&G offered a cash settlement of £430, which 
Mr S accepted. But he also complained as he didnt think the valuation D&G had made was 
fair. He said there were certain features that were critical to him and he didnt think he could 
buy something similar with the cash offered. 
Our investigator didnt think D&G needed to do anything more. He outlined the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss policy and said he thought D&G had acted fairly in offering a suitable 
replacement television. He also thought it had gone beyond what it was required to do under 
the terms of his policy by offering Mr S a cash settlement. 
Mr S remains unhappy and so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy say:
All replacements will be of the same or similar make and technical specification as your 
original Equipment. All replacements will come with a 12 month manufacturers or suppliers 
guarantee for parts and labour. We cannot guarantee that a replacement will be the same 
make, model or colour as your original Equipment.
Mr S doesnt think the £430 offered by D&G is fair. He says his previous television was a 55 
inch 3D 4K Ultra HD HDR LED television that cost him £799 when he bought it. He 
understands that 3D televisions are no longer available but he thinks there are other 
televisions D&G could have offered him that would be a more reasonable match. He gave 
several examples of televisions similar to his which met the criteria of being 55 inch LG 
televisions that are 4K Ultra HD HDR. They ranged in price from £649 to £1699. He also 
said the television offered by D&G is advertised as having a retail price of £599, more than 
the £430 D&G offered him.
D&G offered Mr S a television that it said matched the specifications of his previous 
television. It was a 55 inch 4K Ultra HD HDR LED television. It was not a 3D television but 
thats because 3D televisions are no longer manufactured. Having looked at the technical 
specifications of the old and new televisions, Im satisfied the television D&G offered Mr S as 
a replacement for his old one was a reasonable match based on those details, given certain 
features were not possible to replace.
When Mr S spoke to D&G I can see he asked about OLED televisions as well as other 
televisions with different specifications, such as a larger screen size or those with QLED and 
Crystal UHD technology. D&G told Mr S hed need to pay an upgrade fee if he wanted those 
televisions as it was different technology compared to his previous television. Having looked 
at the specifications of those televisions, I think that was fair. I can understand why he feels 
aggrieved hes lost out on 3D technology but I think it was reasonable for D&G to say the 
televisions Mr S suggested had a higher specification and thus would attract an upgrade fee.
Mr S says his previous television cost him £799 and he appears to be unhappy at the cost of 
the replacement television D&G offered, which was significantly less. The technology market 
moves rapidly and costs can decrease quickly as new technologies emerge and become the 
must-have features or existing technologies advance. So, providing an equivalent television 
will become considerably cheaper over time, and sometimes a relatively short period of time. 
D&G isnt required to provide a replacement of the same retail value as the original purchase 
price under the terms and conditions of the policy. I also wouldnt consider it reasonable to 
require it to as the policy is designed to provide an equivalent piece of technology, not one 
that costs the same at the time of purchase. And Im satisfied its provided an equivalent 
piece of technology. 
Mr S has also pointed out that D&G offered him £430 when hed seen the same television 
advertised for £599. Insurers like D&G will often have established relationships with retailers 
that mean they can buy items below the market price. I dont think theres anything unfair 
about these agreements in principle. D&Gs responsibility was to provide a suitable 
television to replace the one damaged. It said it could obtain that television from one of its 
suppliers for £430 and while that might be less than the recommended retail price, I dont 
think D&G has acted unfairly in offering that amount to Mr S by way of a cash settlement. 
The terms of his policy say it will provide a replacement of the same or similar make and 
technical specification as the original television. And its done that. Mr S chose not to accept 
that television and, as such, I think it was fair for D&G to offer him the amount it would have 
cost it to buy the television rather than the amount it would have cost Mr S.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S but, for the reasons given, I think D&G has acted 
fairly in the way its handled his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman