DRN-3921929
The complaint
Ms F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat her fairly when she 
requested a refund of a payment made with her debit card. 
Ms F has brought her complaint via a representative but for simplicity Ill refer to her 
throughout.
What happened
Ms F bought a used car at a dealership using her debit card in July 2021. The payment for 
the car had been made in two parts  an amount of £2,999 and another of £99. The car was 
delivered to Ms F in August. In September and October Ms F experienced issues with the 
car and it was recovered to the selling dealership on two occasions. The issues werent 
repaired to her satisfaction. She said the car remained undriveable and returned it to the 
dealership. Ms F asked Halifax to help her claim a refund. 
Halifax refunded the two payments to Ms Fs account in December and raised a refund 
request with the card scheme on her behalf on the basis that the goods shed bought were 
defective or not as described. In January 2022 the card scheme decided not to offer Ms F a 
refund. Halifax responded to this and provided further evidence regarding the condition of 
the car, including photographs that Ms F had provided. This second claim was rejected on 
18 February. Halifax had until the 28 February to present further evidence to the card 
scheme to move the claim to the final stage of the process where the card scheme would 
make a final decision on the matter (arbitration) but it didnt try a third time. 
Halifax then re-debited the payment of £2,999 from Ms Fs account in March 2022 having 
given her notice of this. The dealership hadnt provided a response regarding the refund 
request for the separate payment of £99 so, by default, the claim for that amount was 
successful and the credit remained on Ms Fs account.
Ms F complained that Halifax hadnt treated her fairly during this process. Halifax didnt 
uphold her complaint and sent her a final response letter on 16 March 2022 explaining why it 
couldnt offer further help.
Ms F wasnt happy with this response and she referred her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into Ms Fs complaint but didnt recommend that Halifax took further action. They 
found that Halifax hadnt treated Ms F unfairly because it had not only requested a refund on 
her behalf but challenged this when the card scheme rejected the request. It was up to 
Halifax to decide whether to challenge the rejection a second time and our investigator found 
that it hadnt acted unfairly by not doing so. 
Ms F disagreed with this recommendation and asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide and it has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me begin by saying that this is a complaint about how Halifax dealt with Ms Fs refund 
request. I have not looked into whether or not the car dealership sold Ms F a faulty car or 
treated her unfairly when she experienced problems with it and complained. Ms F referred to 
the rights she has as a consumer under the Consumer Credit Act 2015 when she 
complained to the dealership, but whether not the dealership treated Ms F fairly regarding 
these rights is outside of the remit of this decision. Im solely considering whether Halifax has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Ms Fs request for a refund. 
When Ms F asked Halifax for help, it asked the card scheme to consider a refund by raising 
a chargeback request. Chargeback is a process that allows customers to ask for a 
transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services theyve paid for. 
There are specific circumstances in which such a request can be raised and strict time limits 
for doing so. These rules are made by the relevant card schemes (companies that run the 
card networks for example VISA or Mastercard) and refunds arent guaranteed. 
Halifax didnt have to raise a chargeback request for Ms F but I would consider it a fair 
response to her request for help, if it seemed that such a request could result in Ms F having 
her money refunded and if shed already tried to resolve things with the business. 
Ms F said in response to our investigators view that she hadnt received confirmation that 
Halifax sent the evidence she provided to the card scheme for consideration. Ms F provided 
photographs of the car on delivery, copies of communications with the dealership and 
personal testimony to Halifax, along with public information about the selling dealership and 
the cars MOT history. 
I can see from communications from the card scheme that Halifax had sent it photos of the 
car and copies of emails between Ms F and the dealership. I dont have a complete list of 
everything that Halifax sent to the card scheme but even if Halifax didnt send on everything 
it had received from Ms F, I dont think this automatically means it got something wrong in its 
handling of the claim which meant Ms F lost out on a refund.  
The card scheme sets the rules about how the chargeback process works and for a card 
payment where the card owner is present and the complaint is about the goods provided not 
being as described the supporting evidence it asks for is an explanation of what was not as 
described, along with factual information such as the date of receipt of goods, for example. It 
seems to me that Halifax provided what was required. 
Ms F said that it was concerning that the dealership said in response to the chargeback 
request that she had not provided any evidence to support her claim. In particular, Ms F said 
that she had provided independent assessments from her mechanic and the recovery 
service who all agreed that the car wasnt roadworthy and was dangerous to drive.
I have looked through the evidence provided by Ms F and cant see that shes supplied an 
independent assessment of the car at any point. Ms F told us that the breakdown company 
representative carried out an initial assessment on the second occasion and told her that the 
clutch was gone completely, but I havent seen any written evidence to that effect. She has 
provided invoices from the breakdown company who brought the car to the dealership on 
two occasions for repair. The invoices state that the fault is related to the clutch but dont 
provide an assessment or opinion. 
Ms F also said that she discussed the issue with a mechanic at her usual service garage. 
They told her that the reason for a smell remaining in the car after the dealership had replaced the clutch was that the replacement hadnt been carried out correctly. However, 
Ms F hasnt provided any written evidence of an assessment from the garage. 
Halifax asked Ms F to provide any further information she had when letting her know that the 
card scheme had declined the claim a second time. Halifax noted in its complaint records 
that Ms F had never provided written evidence from a third party explaining what the fault 
was with the car. It said that in order to challenge the claim a second time, in other words, 
move the claim to arbitration, the evidence needed to be strong and different from what had 
already been provided. The dealership, for example, had provided an independent 
assessment of the issue with the clutch. 
It might be helpful to note at this point that when the card scheme declined the claim it said it 
was because it was a card present purchase and that the car had been sold as seen. Ms F 
had the possibility of checking the car before payment and had signed the invoice and pre-
delivery inspection form. By giving the chip and pin card Ms F had accepted all conditions of 
the purchase, description and features of the car. It also said that shed had the use of the 
car for a month before complaining about any faults. 
Given this response, and the information Ms F had provided, I dont think Halifax treated 
her unfairly by not pursuing the claim to arbitration. 
Ms F also said that Halifax hadnt told her that the refund it applied to her account was 
temporary. She said that she would not have returned the car to the dealership had she 
known this and would have pursued her claim through the courts. Ms F also said that Halifax 
hasnt provided a call recording of the initial complaint call which Ms F said would show that 
it wasnt made clear to her that the refund could later be rescinded. 
On 13 December Halifax emailed Ms F to say that After reviewing the details of your 
dispute, I'm pleased to tell you that I have applied a temporary credit to your account. This 
credit will remain on your account whilst the retailers bank reviews the information. Should 
the retailer provide us with further information we will contact you. If they don't contact us, 
the credit will remain on your account. I think its clear from this communication that the 
credit that had been applied was temporary and was subject to the response from the card 
scheme. So I cant find that Halifax didnt provide clear and fair information to Ms F on this 
point. As mentioned, Halifax let Ms F know in January that the scheme had declined the 
refund request.
In summary, Ive concluded that Halifax didnt get anything wrong in its handling of Ms Fs 
refund request which meant that she missed out on having her money returned and overall I 
dont think Halifax treated her unfairly. I appreciate that this is not the outcome Ms F is 
hoping for and I am sorry to disappoint her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman