DRN-2624890
The complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint is about a mortgage they had with Santander UK Plc. They are 
unhappy they were unable to port their mortgage and so incurred an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they paid off the mortgage. In addition, they dont think the amount of 
the ERC was reasonable or reflected the cost to Santander of them repaying their mortgage 
early. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Santander. the mortgage was for £126,000, 
over a term of 26 years and 10 months and was arranged on a repayment basis. An interest 
rate product was added to the mortgage, which expired in early April 2021. The mortgage 
offer documented that if the mortgage was repaid before the April 2021 an ERC of 5% of the 
amount repaid would be charged. Examples were given of how much this would be at 
different times. The mortgage offer also said that if Mr and Mrs A wanted to move home 
before the end of the term of the product, they might be able to transfer it to a mortgage on a 
new property.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs A needed to move home. They have explained that they approached 
Santander to discuss a new mortgage with it for the property they wanted to buy. Theyve 
said they didnt meet with a mortgage adviser as theyd wanted, but the person they did 
meet with calculated Santander might be willing to lend them £118,000, depending on the 
property being suitable and further financial checks. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs A needed to 
borrow more than that, so they arranged a mortgage with a different lender that would give 
them a bigger mortgage.  This meant, when they repaid the Santander mortgage, it charged 
them an ERC of just under £6,000. Mr and Mrs A complained.
Santander didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. It said they had been told theyd be 
charged an ERC, and the amount of it, if they repaid their mortgage before April 2021. It said 
as the mortgage was paid off early, the ERC was rightly charged. As for the porting of the 
mortgage, it said this was subject to lending criteria. Unfortunately, the application made 
hadnt fitted with its lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with Santanders response and asked us to consider the 
complaint. They said they consider the 5% ERC was an unfair penalty and they would be 
surprised if the cost to Santander didnt diminish with the passage of time. As such, they 
would like an individualised calculation for their mortgage completed and for Santander to 
offer them a refund of more than half the ERC they paid. They pointed out that Santander 
hadnt addressed this issue in its response to their complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs As complaint, but she didnt recommend it 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the investigators opinion. They repeated that they 
would have expected the cost to Santander of early repayment to have decreased, so they 
remained of the opinion that the charge was unfair and not a reasonable pre-estimate.
The investigator provided a further response to Mr and Mrs As concerns, but she wasnt 
persuaded by their comments to change her view of the complaint. Mr and Mrs A remained 
unhappy with the investigators conclusions. They repeated their view about the ERC. They 
said they didnt feel they had been provided with the professional advice they had asked for, 
as they didnt meet with a mortgage adviser as theyd requested, and this left them at a 
distinct disadvantage.  They also said when they originally took out the mortgage its 
portability had been emphasised. They hadnt been made aware about the difficulties of 
porting; for example, that the amount offered might be less than the amount of the existing 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs A asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration. 
Our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs A had raised a new complaint point not previously 
mentioned  that about what had been said, or not said, at the time the Santander mortgage 
had been recommended to them. She informed Santander and it consented to us 
considering the new point as part of this complaint. It also provided a copy of the 
documentation from when Mr and Mrs A took out their mortgage with it in 2016.
The documentation set out that Mr and Mrs A were first-time buyers and they wanted to 
keep their mortgage payment within their budget of £625 per month. As such, they were 
recommended a fixed rate and they asked for the longest term available, because they were 
worried about interest rates going up. The adviser checked with Mr and Mrs A whether they 
were anticipating any changes to their circumstances and they confirmed they werent. So it 
was recommended they take a fixed rate over five years, which involved an ERC if they paid 
off the mortgage during the product term. The recommendation letter from the mortgage 
adviser doesnt mention the concept of porting the mortgage product. However, the guide to 
mortgages Santander gave Mr and Mrs A did discuss what could happen if they wanted to 
move home:
Take your current deal with you to your new home  this is sometimes known as 
porting. This could save you money if your interest rate is lower than other mortgage rate 
currently available, and you wouldnt have to pay any Early Repayment Charge that may 
apply as long as you port the same amount. 
The mortgage offer, which Mr and Mrs A accepted when they took their mortgage out 
detailed:
If you move house you may [my emphasis] be able to transfer this mortgage to another 
property subject to the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet 
The mortgage conditions explain that Santander will allow the transfer of the existing interest 
product to a new mortgage it has agreed to advance. It goes into further details, all of which 
are dependent on Santander having agreed to a new mortgage on a new property.
Having received the further information from Santander, our investigator wrote to 
Mr and Mrs A with her view on the additional point theyd made. She wasnt persuaded that 
she could uphold a complaint about this issue. This was because the ability to port was only 
ever a possibility in 2016 and it was always dependent on whether Santander would agree to 
lend on a new property. The factors it would take into account couldnt have been known in 
2016, so no guarantee could have been given.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.During the sales process in 2016 the adviser asked Mr and Mrs A if they thought they 
thought their circumstances were likely to change and whether they were likely to want to 
move home. They said they werent anticipating any changes and so they were 
recommended a five-year fixed interest rate product with an associated ERC. I wouldnt have 
expected a large amount of emphasis to have been placed on the portability of the product in 
those circumstances and the documentation doesnt do so, but I think it would have been 
mentioned as a concept in case there were unexpected changes. However, with no detail of 
what Mr and Mrs A might require in the future or what their situation would be, porting could 
only be a possibility, and not something that was guaranteed to happen.
As it happens, despite Mr and Mrs A not anticipating changes to their circumstances 
meaning theyd need to move, thats exactly what happened. Theyve said they werent told 
how difficult it would be to port the interest rate product or that they might not be able to 
borrow even the amount they had previously borrowed.
Porting is always dependent on the lender being willing to provide a mortgage for the new 
property. The decision about whether to lend takes into account many factors; including 
whether a property is suitable security and whether a consumer can afford the borrowing. In 
this case a full decision in principle wasnt completed as the person who Mr and Mrs A met 
with wasnt a mortgage adviser. However, her manager has confirmed that she had 
previously acted in that role and it would appear she completed a simple affordability check 
for them during their meeting. I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs A were disadvantaged 
because of who they met with.
The simple affordability check was done to indicate what Santander was likely to be willing to 
lend. This would have taken into account Mr and Mrs As income and expenditure to 
determine what size mortgage they could afford both in the short and longer terms. Each 
lender will make this assessment in its own way, which can lead to different decisions by 
different lenders. That is entirely acceptable as lenders are allowed to determine the level of 
risk they are willing to take and that isnt something this service would usually interfere with. 
The early indication of the amount Santander was willing to lend to Mr and Mrs A fell 
considerably short, by more than £20,000, of the amount they were looking to borrow at the 
time. It was Mr and Mrs As decision to look elsewhere for a mortgage at this point and I 
cant hold Santander responsible for that decision.  
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr and Mrs A 
before the mortgage was advanced. They accepted that offer and the ERC that was 
associated with it, even if they thought, at the time, it was unlikely they would have to incur it.
As for Mr and Mrs As concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr and Mrs A have commented that they would expect the ERC to reflect the lost interest 
and profit resultant on early repayment, and that these amounts would reduce over the term 
of the product. As I have explained above there are many factors that are taken into account 
when an ERC is calculated, and the interest lost is one of them, but it tends to be a less 
significant one. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by Santander if the mortgage is repaid early, it can make the charge. I have seen 
evidence of the calculations: although they cant be made publicly available as theyre 
commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was 
a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded in whole or in 
part.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman