DRN-2257429
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement offer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has 
made for a claim made under his home insurance policy.
References to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mr H holds a home insurance policy which also provides cover for Mrs Hs items.
In late 2019, Mrs H lost a valuable bracelet. It was custom made piece, which also had a 
great deal of sentimental value. Mr H made a claim under his home insurance policy and 
RSA offered a cash settlement of £837.40.
Mr H was unhappy with this offer. Hed provided RSA with a quotation from the jeweller for 
£3,995. He asked RSA to review its offer and increase the amount of the settlement.
RSA said it had received the original receipt and the quote to replace the bracelet. It had 
appointed its jewellery experts to assist with the claim. They said they were able to replicate 
the bracelet at a cost of £1,995. So, they could make the jewellery, and this would ensure Mr 
and Mrs H were put in the position they were prior to their loss. It said if Mr H wanted to opt 
for a cash settlement instead, this would be at a reduced rate  to take into account the 
discount RSA would have received when getting the item made. This resulted in the 
settlement amount being £837.40, after deduction of the policy excess.
After a discussion between Mr Hs jeweller and RSAs supplier, RSA revised the valuation to 
£2,499 and made a settlement offer of £1,099.48  which again took into account the 
discount RSA would have received when making the jewellery, and the policy excess.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He thought RSA had acted 
fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think the amount RSA had offered to 
settle the claim was enough. Similar pieces on RSAs suppliers website were around 
£4,000. Mrs H sent us a picture of her bracelet, which our investigator shared with RSA. He 
also passed on website links to the bracelets Mrs H said were similar to hers. RSA said this 
information didnt make a difference to its jewellers assessment and its position remained 
unchanged.
As Mr H disagrees with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy say:
The most we will pay for any one claim is the amount it will cost us to replace the contents 
as new or the amount required to repair the damage, whichever is less, up to the sum 
insured shown on your schedule and subject to the limits shown above or in the Summary of 
limits
Mr H has provided receipts to show he paid £500 for a 1ct diamond bracelet in December 
2000. He also submitted a quote from the jeweller he bought it from saying it was now worth 
£3,995. RSAs jewellery suppliers said they were able to replace the item for much less than 
this and initially assessed the value at £1,995. But after a conversation with Mr Hs jeweller, 
who provided further information about the item, they reassessed the value at £2,499.
 
I appreciate RSAs suppliers estimate is a lot lower than the one given by the jeweller who 
supplied the original bracelet. But I havent seen strong enough evidence to persuade me 
that the valuation from RSAs jewellery supplier is too low. Mrs H has sent us links to RSAs 
suppliers website with more expensive bracelets she says are similar to hers. But the links 
shes sent us are for bracelets with diamonds weighing two or more carats, while the receipt 
shows the diamonds on her bracelet as weighing only one carat.
Ive also kept in mind that RSA has offered to arrange for the bracelet to be replaced with 
one that was like for like. I appreciate Mrs H would prefer to select a replacement from a 
jeweller of her own choosing. Shes concerned that a bracelet from RSAs suppliers will be of 
lower quality than the one she lost. But, as Ive said, I havent seen strong enough evidence 
to show me thats the case.
I understand Mrs H is concerned that she wouldnt be able to return a custom made piece of 
jewellery to RSAs suppliers. If there was good evidence that the replacement wasnt 
equivalent to the bracelet shed lost, I would expect RSA to look into this and consider the 
next steps to ensure a settlement provided a like for like replacement under the policy.
According to the terms of the policy RSA isnt required to pay above the amount it would cost 
it to replace the item. And RSA has also provided evidence to show that it would only have 
had to pay its suppliers £1,299.48 to replace the bracelet once the discount it was entitled to 
had been added. I can also see that the claim was subject to an excess of £200. So, I think 
the £1,099.48 RSA has offered Mr H to settle the claim is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman