DRN-1563312
The complaint
Mr K complains that a television he bought with finance from Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants a replacement but has only been given a 
partial credit.
What happened
In or about July 2014 Mr K opened an account with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
(SDFC), which he could use for purchases from a retailer which Ill call V. In December 2014 
he used the account to buy a television for £599.99.
Mr K has explained that, in or about March 2019 the television stopped working. He 
complained to SDFC, which provided a partial refund  of £120  but didnt believe that Mr K 
was entitled to a full refund or replacement has he requested. It said the refund of 20% of the 
original price fairly reflected the use Mr K had had from the television. 
Mr K didnt accept SDFCs response. He stopped making payments to his account  in turn 
triggering charges  and also complained about the service hed received. SDFC refunded 
charges totalling £96 and paid a total of £30 in recognition of the trouble to which hed been 
put but didnt offer anything more in respect of the television. 
Mr K referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator thought however that SDFC had treated Mr K fairly. He didnt consider it 
appropriate to provide Mr K with a brand new television to replace one that was more than 
four years old. Mr K referred to a six-year rule in support of his case for a replacement and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SDFC didnt supply the television, V did, but SDFC provided the finance for it under 
arrangements with V. Because of that, the effect section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
is that, if Mr K has a claim for breach of contract against V, he has a like claim against 
SDFC. I must therefore consider the terms of the contract for the sale and purchase of the 
television between Mr K and V. 
The contract for the purchase of the television was covered by the Sale of Goods Act 1979, 
which at the time of the contract had been amended and supplemented by other legislation, 
including the Sale and Supply of Goods Act 1994 and the Sale and Supply of Goods to 
Consumers Regulations 2002. That legislation has now been largely consolidated in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
By section 14 of the Sale of Goods Act 1974 it was an implied term of the contract that the 
television would be of satisfactory quality. That means that it must meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as satisfactory in the circumstances. The quality of goods 
includes such matters as fitness for purpose and durability. 
In his submissions, Mr K referred to a six-year rule. There is however no specific rule saying 
that goods should last that long; whether goods are sufficiently durable to meet the test of 
satisfactory quality will depend on, for example, the nature of the goods and the use to which 
they have been put. And Ive seen no specific agreement, for example, by way of guarantee 
or warranty, that the television would still be working after a certain period of time. 
SDFC does however appear to accept that the television should have lasted longer than it 
did. It didnt directly challenge Mr Ks assertion that there was a fault, albeit largely on the 
basis of his own report of what went wrong. I must therefore consider whether the remedy it 
offered was reasonable. 
The Sale and Supply of Goods to Consumers Regulations 2002 provide for a range of 
different remedies where goods do not conform to the contract of sale at the time of delivery. 
They include repair, replacement, a price reduction and rescission of the contract (in effect, 
treating it as if is had never been made). The Regulations dont however provide the 
consumer with an absolute choice of remedies  although they may have that effect in some 
cases. A buyer cannot, for example, insist on a remedy which is impossible or which is 
disproportionate in comparison to the other remedies available. 
In this case, SDFC offered Mr K a partial refund of the purchase price of the television. It 
said that a repair would not be possible, as replacement parts are no longer available. 
Replacing the television with a new one wouldnt be proportionate, since Mr K had been 
using it for more than four years. 
I accept what SDFC says about the possibility of an effective repair in this case. I think it 
quite likely that it wouldnt be possible. I also accept what it says about the disproportionate 
nature of the remedy that Mr K is seeking. Further, I must determine Mr Ks complaint by 
reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont 
believe it would be fair to require SDFC to replace his television with a new one; the effect of 
that would be to substitute Mr Ks four-year old television with a new one at no cost to him. 
That isnt what he and V agreed at the end of 2014 and in my view isnt a fair outcome. I 
stress though that I make no comment here about how long the television should have 
lasted, and my decision shouldnt be taken to mean that theres a set time for which a 
television should function properly. I believe however that the remedy already offered is fair 
in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman