DRN-2848323
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) was misrepresented to him. 
What happen
In September 2020 Mr S acquired a used car from a dealer (D) financed by a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. Mr S said he wanted to purchase an Ultra Low Emissions Zone 
(ULEZ) compliant car so that he could commute into London. He said he made this clear to 
the sales advisor. 
Initially when Mr S visited D he signed an agreement for a different car. Before leaving the 
premises, he looked online at a trusted website which contained relevant information relating 
to car emissions, W, and discovered the car wasnt ULEZ compliant. He immediately 
cancelled the agreement. He said he made staff at D aware that this was a deal breaker. 
Mr S said after that D made him aware of other cars, including emailing details of one the 
same day. The email said this car is EURO 6 I think its going to work. EURO 6 is the 
current ULEZ emissions standard for diesel cars. Mr S said this proved the team at D was 
aware of his intentions to purchase a ULEZ compliant car. 
Mr S found a second car. He said he checked W and it said it was ULEZ compliant. He 
notified D that he was interested in this car and on 16 September went to view it. He said he 
double checked on W that it was ULEZ compliant and the website said it was. He went 
ahead with the car using finance provided by BMWFS. 
On 23 November Mr S said he randomly checked W by chance to see if his car was ULEZ 
compliant and discovered it wasnt . He said he double checked again and it wasnt. He 
complained to D. He said he was led to believe he was purchasing a ULEZ compliant car but 
the one he bought was only EURO 5 and not EURO 6. He said important information about 
the car  that it is a EURO 5 not a EURO 6  had been withheld from him during the sale.  
In its final response BMWFS said it hadnt seen sufficient evidence to show that Mr S has 
been mis-sold the vehicle. It said the information provided suggested that the circumstances 
had been outside its control. Mr S wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. 
He said he was misled into purchasing a car which he had not been given all the information 
about. 
Our investigator concluded that there wasnt enough evidence that the car was 
misrepresented. Mr S didnt agree so he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said 
vital information was deceitfully withheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr S but having done so I wont be asking 
BMWFS to do anything further. 
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The effect of section 56 CCA means that if 
theres been a misrepresentation by the dealer or credit broker, D, regarding the agreement 
or the goods, BMWFS would potentially be liable for any losses Mr S incurred as the result 
of the misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a 
consumer to enter an agreement and, as a result of the misrepresentation, to suffer a loss.
I wasnt present during negotiations about the car. So I must rely on available evidence and 
testimony provided by both parties. Where information is unclear, incomplete or 
contradictory - as is the case here I must made a decision on the balance of probabilities - 
that is - what I think is most likely to have happened. 
In its final response BMWFS said the ULEZ regulations changed on the 26 October 2020, 
after Mr S purchased the vehicle in September and it was unable to predict that would 
happen. It said Mr Ss vehicle was ULEZ compliant as per the W website at point of sale. Ive 
looked at the relevant regulations for ULEZ. I can see that BMWFS made an error in its 
response to Mr S. The changes on 26 October 2020 relate to buses, coaches and lorries 
and not diesel cars. While this mistake is not helpful its not evidence the car was 
misrepresented. 
Was there a false statement of fact?
Mr S has said he was deceived, and that information was withheld from him. He said D sent 
him an email on the same day he rejected the first car containing the profile of an alternative 
car Mr S might be interested in, saying it was a EURO 6 car and so D knew he intended to 
buy a ULEZ compliant car. Ive seen the email D sent and I agree that it does acknowledge 
the car as EURO 6. But this is not the same car Mr S went on to acquire. And this was two 
weeks before Mr S eventually signed an agreement. Im not disputing D discussed with Mr S 
his need for an ULEZ compliant car, but Ive not seen any evidence D specifically stated the 
car Mr S eventually acquired was EURO 6.
Mr S said the registration certificate was sent to him (V5C) six days after the sale by D and it 
clearly states the car as EURO 5 not EURO 6. He said D, as a dealer, knew or should have 
known the car was EURO 5 and he wasnt given all the information. Ive seen a copy of the 
V5C and I can see the car is EURO 5 standard which means it isnt compliant with ULEZ 
and therefore would be liable for daily charges were Mr S to drive it in central London. I 
accept that this information was likely available to D at the time. But Ive seen no evidence 
that D specifically told Mr S the car was EURO 6 or ULEZ compliant nor have I seen any 
evidence Mr S was deceived. Mr S received the V5C within the 14 days cooling off period for 
the credit agreement. During this time Mr S could have withdrawn from the agreement. 
In his complaint to both BMWFS and this service Mr S said he found a second car he liked 
and checked with W that it was ULEZ compliant. W said it was. He said he told the sales 
person he was interested in the car and on 16 September he went to view it with a friend. He 
said he then double checked that the car was ULEZ compliant on W. He said W was a 
trusted source and it confirmed the car was compliant, so he went ahead with the finance 
agreement.  
Ive visited the website W and I can see it is set up as an independent authority on which 
vehicles are or would be ULEZ compliant. Im satisfied that a reasonable person would 
consider this a trusted source for this kind of information. Im satisfied D also would have 
considered this a trusted source for ULEZ compliancy. But I can also see that it checks every car make and model and not just the type Mr S has acquired. And, while I cant say for 
certain, its possible there was a mistake within the website which indicated the car was 
compliant, and by the time Mr S said he went to check again, in November, it had been 
corrected. 
So, on balance I think it unlikely D misrepresented the car. 
Did this induce the customer to enter an agreement?
Had I determined that D had misrepresented the car I would also need to be persuaded that 
this misrepresentation induced Mr S to enter the agreement. Mr S hasnt said specifically 
what the sales advisor said about the car concerning its EURO status or ULEZ compliancy. 
But he said he wasnt told what was on the V5C and he said D knew he intended to buy a 
ULEZ compliant car. I must be satisfied Mr S relied on Ds misrepresentation. Its not 
misrepresentation if Mr S relied on his own judgement or his own research.  
Mr S has said this is his first car so I wouldnt expect him to know all about cars. I would 
expect a reasonable first-time buyer to do research about what kind of car he would need or 
want. I can see Mr S did this, including using W which he said he trusted as a source of 
information for ULEZ compliancy. W is not connected to D or BMWFS in any way. It is an 
independent website available to all. While I accept that D could and perhaps should have 
been more helpful in checking the exact specification of the car for ULEZ compliancy on the 
V5C Im not persuaded Mr S relied on D to make his decision. I am more persuaded he 
relied on W to confirm the car was compliant and, having done so, he felt confident to sign 
the agreement. 
Mr S is concerned that we are blaming him for not being thorough in his research. I want to 
reassure Mr S that this is not the case. Im persuaded that he, and likely D also, relied on a 
source of information that a reasonable person would expect to contain accurate information 
about ULEZ compliancy and, while I cant say for certain, it appears it may not have.
I dont think it likely D made a false statement of fact, and Im persuaded Mr S relied on other 
information. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman