DRN-3009085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled their request for 
a partial refund of their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D purchased an annual multi-trip insurance policy, covering them from holidays 
taken in Europe. The agreed start date of the policy was 21 September 2019, with the end 
date being 20 September 2020. The policy provided Mr and Mrs D with cover for any trips 
within this period of time, for a duration of 45 days at a time. The premium charged to Mr and 
Mrs D for the cover was £304.86 and included cover for a total of 10 medical conditions.
On 28 August 2020 Mr and Mrs D contacted Great Lakes, via email. They explained that 
they had contacted the broker they purchased their travel insurance through, to ask for a 
refund of part of the premium paid for their policy. Mr and Mrs D said they had asked for this 
refund because they hadnt been able to use their insurance policy for half of the year, given 
restrictions in relation to the coronavirus pandemic. But, their request for a refund was 
denied.
Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs D. It also said it wasnt able to provide any form of 
refund to Mr and Mrs D in this instance. It noted that was because of the date Mr and Mrs 
Ds insurance policy started  21 September 2019. And because Mr and Mrs D had use of 
the policy prior to the coronavirus pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with Great Lakes position on the matter. And so, they referred their 
complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They set out 
the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in this case. They 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to 
bear a risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The adjudicator 
said this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums in relation to the 
risk it covered during that time.
The adjudicator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed, because cover under the policy started on 21 September 2019, 
and the policy covered various risks from that point, until Mr and Mrs D cancelled their 
policy, effectively in August 2020.
However, the adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. And considered whether in this instance, there was anything further Great Lakes 
needed to do, in light of the unique circumstances of the pandemic. They considered there 
wasnt anything further Great Lakes needed to do.
This was because they considered whether any refund was due from the time Mr and Mrs D 
effectively cancelled their policy (by asking Great Lakes for a refund), to the original end date 
of the policy  20 September 2020. So, the time Great Lakes was no longer on risk. But the 
adjudicator explained that Great Lakes calculated the premium payable, based on its claims 
experience across the term of the policy. And that this meant there was a material 
unevenness in how the premium was apportioned across the term. Meaning that by the time 
Mr and Mrs D cancelled their policy, no refund was due to them.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion. In summary, Mr and Mrs D said;
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued guidance to insurers  noting 
insurers should treat customers fairly, and take the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19 into account. And they didnt think this was what Great Lakes had done;
They had been unable to travel for half of the policy year, due to restrictions on 
travel, and so felt they should be receiving a refund for the half of the policy they 
didnt use.
Because Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion, the matter has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy say;
After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by contacting us, 
but no refund of premium will be available.
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs D.
Its understood that Mr and Mrs W purchased their policy with every intention to go on 
holiday and be covered for the whole policy term. But coronavirus altered their ability to 
travel, for around half of the time the policy was in force. So, Ive taken into account what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, including the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
And in these circumstances, I think Great Lakes has acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs D were insured from 21 September 2019, when policy started, until they 
requested a refund on 28 August 2020. This cover was for any number of trips they took, up 
to 45 days in duration. At this point, whether Mr and Mrs D went on any trips or not, Great 
Lakes were covering the risk of a claim occurring. And the premiums charged to them, 
reflected this. So, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ds comments around not being able to 
travel for around half of the policy year, the policy was still providing them with benefits  for 
example cancellation cover, in line with the policy terms. So, Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable that Great Lakes dont provide a refund for this period of cover.
Mr and Mrs D cancelled their policy on 28 August 2020. Because of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Mr and Mrs D were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under their insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the 
policy from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from 
that point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do 
think it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs D with a pro-rata refund, 
from 28 August 2020, until the date the policy was due to end, on 20 September 2020, if the 
way the premium is calculated means a refund is due.
This would take into account the unprecedented circumstances around Covid-19. Ive 
thought about whether Great Lakes has taken this approach when looking at Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances, and Im satisfied it has. So, I think it has taken into consideration the Covid-
19 pandemic, and its impact, in line with FCA guidance.
But its the case that no refund is due in these particular circumstances. Great Lakes has 
provided information to show that it gets varying percentages of claims across different 
months of an annual multi-trip policy. And, when it comes to the month 11 of the policy 
(which is when Mr and Mrs D looked to cancel the policy), the premium has already been 
used in the previous months.  And so, when considering whether a pro-rata refund for 
Mr and Mrs D, it has taken this into account. 
This approach doesnt treat Mr and Mrs D unfairly or any differently to customers in similar 
circumstances to theirs. And as there was no refund left to provide, Im satisfied Great Lakes 
decision not to return any of the premium to Mr and Mrs D is fair and reasonable. Therefore, 
I wont be asking it to do anything differently in this case. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman