DRN-2423557
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC) 
when she repaid her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs W had a mortgage with HSBC, with a balance of around £350,000. In April 2019 she 
switched her to a new fixed interest rate product online. The switch was non-advised. The 
interest rate was fixed until July 2024. The mortgage offer set out that an ERC was payable 
if the mortgage was repaid before July 2024. The offer also said that the loan could be 
transferred to another property subject to a number of considerations, including HSBCs 
lending criteria.
Mrs W wanted to move home. She wanted to borrow 85-90% loan-to-value against a 
property worth more than £500,000. HSBC said its policy was that it would only lend to a 
maximum of 80% loan for properties over £500,000. So Mrs W was left with no choice but to 
repay her HSBC mortgage and incur the ERC.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She made a number of points including:
She wasnt told about HSBCs policy when she took out the new fixed rate. If she had 
been told she wouldnt have taken the new rate.
The loan-to-value on her mortgage was at times well over 80%. So she had a 
reasonable expectation that HSBC would allow the mortgage to be transferred to the 
new property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer  and in line with the 
relevant rules. As the mortgage was repaid during the tie-in period, HSBC was entitled to 
apply the ERC. That was what Mrs W agreed to when she took the mortgage. I need to 
consider whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint.
The mortgage offer set out that the mortgage was portable. That is it could be transferred to 
another property. But it also says that is subject to HSBCs lending criteria. I dont consider 
this was an irrevocable undertaking to allow Mrs W to port her mortgage. It was always 
subject to approval by HSBC.
This wasnt a case where Mrs W just wanted to move her existing borrowing to a new 
property. She was looking to increase her borrowing significantly. So I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to apply its lending policy here. Its not for me to interfere in the 
legitimate policies that HSBC sets. And Im satisfied it has exercised that policy fairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs W switched rate, there was no requirement for HSBC to tell her about all the 
potential scenarios where it might not agree to port a mortgage. Mrs W hasnt said that she 
was given any incorrect information by HSBC. And I note the switch was made online. So I 
dont consider it misled her when she took out the new rate
When Mrs W originally took the mortgage the loan-to-value was 95%. I can see how that 
might have led Mrs W to think that such a loan-to-value would be acceptable to HSBC. But I 
dont consider that would oblige HSBC to agree Mrs Ws application. While HSBC was 
prepared to lend a higher loan-to-value in the past, the circumstances were different  it was 
more than four years since the mortgage was originally taken, the value of the new property 
was higher and the amount Mrs W wanted to borrow was significantly more. It was 
reasonable for HSBC to apply its current policy.
Overall, I dont consider that HSBC acted unfairly in not considering Mrs Ws application or in 
applying the ERC
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman