DRN-2216597
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way Telefonica Insurance S.A.(Telefonica) handled his mobile 
phone insurance claim.
What happened
On 8 May 2020, Mr M made a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy. He decided to 
use the exchange service, ( a benefit of his policy) which meant the insured damaged phone 
would be collected and replaced at the same time. Mr M was advised the exchange would 
take place on the following day, but unfortunately it didnt happen until 11 May 2020. This 
was because the adviser who arranged the exchange failed to take the bank holiday into 
consideration. 
Mr M raised a complaint as he said he should be compensated for the inconvenience the 
incorrect information caused him. He also said he should be compensated for his loss of 
earnings, as although he couldnt provide evidence of this, he couldve worked an overtime 
shift on 9 May 2020.
Telefonica investigated the complaint and sent Mr M a final response within eight weeks. In 
their response, they acknowledged their error and offered to pay Mr M £30 compensation to 
say sorry. Mr M didnt accept this as he said his excess should be refunded and the 
compensation increased. He also said his complaint should have been resolved faster.
Our investigator then concluded that Telefonica had already provided Mr M with a 
reasonable resolution to his complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree, so Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M feels Telefonica should refund his £70 excess, however, as the excess is payable 
under the terms of the policy in the event of all claims, I dont think Telefonica acted 
unreasonably by declining this request. Im also satisfied that with the exception of providing 
incorrect information about the exchange date, Telefonica handled Mr Ms claim reasonably. 
When deciding if compensation should be awarded, I have to consider the impact of an 
error. I also have to consider the general unavoidable inconvenience associated with making 
an insurance claim.
I accept Mr M experienced some trouble and upset because he didnt exchange phones on 
the day he was expecting. I also note that although Mr M was given incorrect information, 
the phone exchange could never have happened any earlier than it did. 
Mr M has said the error resulted in a loss of earnings, but hes not provided any supporting 
evidence to show this. During the call to log the claim, he also said that he was going to be 
home on the day of the exchange in any event. So, although it may have been possible for 
him to have worked an extra shift, it doesnt seem that he was planning on doing this. 
Therefore, I dont think Telefonica should compensate Mr M for this potential loss.
I also understand why Mr M wanted a faster response to his complaint. However, under the 
rules Telefonica had eight weeks to respond to his concerns, and they acted fairly by 
complying with this time frame. I also note that the problem itself was resolved when the 
phone exchange took place on 11 May 2020. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Telefonicas offer Ive readof £30 
compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ms complaint. So, I wont be asking 
Telefonica to do anything more.
If Mr M would now like to accept Telefonicas compensation offer, he should contact them 
directly to arrange this
My final decision.
I dont uphold this complaint as Telefonica Insurance S.A. have already offered Mr M a 
reasonable resolution. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman