DRN-1522801
 
The complaint
 Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1999, Mr P applied for a credit card and at the same time was sold PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Mr P didnt agree with the 
adjudicators decision, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr P says that when he took out his credit card he wasnt aware that a PPI policy had been 
added to his card account.
This was a branch sale and BoS has provided a copy of the credit agreement which Mr P 
signed to obtain his card. Theres an option on this agreement to choose PPI by putting a 
cross in a box. And I can see that a pre-printed cross has been placed in this box. There are 
also two boxes to choose depending on when in the month the consumer wishes to make 
their monthly repayment. And I can see that on Mr Ps form a pre-printed cross has been 
placed in one of these too. 
From what we know about BoS normal branch sales process at this time, I think it most 
likely the salesperson Mr P spoke to would have filled in the application form electronically 
during the meeting with him and printed it off for his signature. As part of this process, the 
member of staff would have needed to discuss with Mr P his need for PPI - and to obtain his 
agreement to it being added to his account - before making this selection on the BoS 
automated application system. Mr P should then have had time to read through the form, 
before signing to agree that the details were correct.
Mr Ps representative has suggested that the salesperson may not have followed this 
process as intended  failing to discuss the PPI with Mr P or to obtain his agreement to it - 
and just telling Mr P to sign the agreement in the place theyd marked with a cross. Whilst I 
accept that the salesperson could have wrongly misled Mr P in this way, Ive no real reason 
to think this is what is most likely to have happened. And the premiums for the PPI policy 
were shown quite clearly on Mr Ps monthly card statements, which makes me think he 
would have queried these if the policy had been added without his knowledge or agreement.So, on balance, I think its most likely that Mr P actively decided to take the PPI knowing he 
could choose not to do so. But this sale took place over twenty years ago, so I can 
understand why he might not be able to remember this now.
From what Ive seen, I think that BoS recommended the PPI policy to Mr P. This means it 
had to ensure that it was right for Mr P given his circumstances at the time. Theres no 
record of the meeting available, so I cant now know how it did this. But from what I know 
about Mr Ps circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been 
suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr P appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr P says he didnt need the PPI because he had a generous sick pay entitlement 
from his employer and, in addition, had savings he could have used to make his card 
repayments in need. He has also said that he received a significant redundancy 
payment from his employer some years after the sale of this policy. But some of 
these savings appear to have been held in the form of shares, which we wouldnt 
normally regard as providing suitable alternative cover to PPI. And Mr P hasnt been 
able to provide much further information about these savings when asked to do so by 
our adjudicator. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude on the available 
evidence that these savings  combined with his other means - meant that Mr P 
wouldnt have benefited from the PPI policy. And Mr P chose to take out the policy so 
it would appear that he valued this type of protection. The policy would have 
specifically covered his card repayments for up to twelve months if he wasnt able to 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment, as well as providing him 
with some life cover. And it would have done so in addition to any other means he 
might have had at the time. So, on balance, I still think that Mr P would have valued 
the extra protection the PPI policy gave him if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr P. And as the policys 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
 
BoS also needed to ensure that it provided enough information for Mr P to decide if the 
policy was right for him. I think the information BoS gave Mr P could have been better than it 
was. But for much the same reasons that I didnt think the policy was unsuitable for him, I 
dont think better information would have changed his mind about taking it. I think hed still 
have thought the PPI policy gave him useful cover at an affordable cost.
So I dont think that Mr P has lost out by anything that BoS may have done wrong when it 
sold him this policy.
Ive thought carefully about the reasons why Mr P and his representative still think the policy 
was mis-sold. But Im afraid these havent changed my mind about not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman