DRN-3723322
The complaint
Mr W complains that Edinburgh Alternative Finance Limited trading as LendingCrowd has
suspending peer-to-peer lending on its crowdfunding platform. He also feels its unfair for
LendingCrowd to charge him a fee for withdrawing whilst its not providing a lending service.
What happened
Mr W has peer-to-peer crowdfunding accounts with LendingCrowd.
LendingCrowd is a loan-based crowdfunding platform which allows investors to lend money
to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a
proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives
interest. LendingCrowd provided a Loan Market on its platform in which investors could
access their money early by selling their loan parts to other investors or purchasing existing
loans from investors.
In March 2020 LendingCrowd made the decision to stop new retail lending while it evaluated
the potential impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. In December 2020 LendingCrowd sent an
update to investors advising them that it was no longer accepting any new deposits or new
investors onto the platform. And in January 2021 LendingCrowd informed investors of the
temporary suspension of its Loan Market.
Mr W complained to LendingCrowd as he was unhappy that he was unable to invest in new
loans either through new loans coming on to the platform or through purchasing existing
loans. He also felt it was unfair for him to have to pay a 1% withdrawal fee if he wanted to
exit the platform considering LendingCrowd was no longer providing new lending.
LendingCrowd considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, LendingCrowd
explained:
ln temporarily suspending the Loan Market, its acted in line with its interpretation of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) requirements that state where loans are 
priced by risk, their price must reflect their status.
Due to the changes within the economy and restrictions that impacted its borrowers, 
its possible that borrowers risk profiles have changed since the point of underwriting 
loans.
Its terms and conditions dont guarantee liquidity for sale of loan parts on its Loan 
Market.
The 1% withdrawal fee is LendingCrowds remuneration for the processing of loan 
repayments and distribution of payments to lenders.
This fee is not associated with the re-investment of lender capital and so it doesnt 
feel that an otherwise early exit from the platform due to unforeseen and 
uncontrollable changes in the economy warrants its fees to be waived. Particularly 
where lenders have, and will continue to, receive the benefit of the platforms 
services.
Mr W didnt accept LendingCrowds response and so he referred his complaint to this
Service for an independent review.
An investigator at this Service looked into Mr Ws complaint but felt LendingCrowd had acted
fairly. In short, she said:
LendingCrowd had reached out to all of its borrowers to offer the option for a 
repayment holiday due to the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic - ensuring less 
borrowers defaulted on their loans.
The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic meant that there was reduced liquidity.
Having reviewed the actions of LendingCrowd, she considered that it had made a 
legitimate commercial decision to suspend the loan market.
There was no requirement for LendingCrowd to consult its investors prior to doing so.
Shed reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account and noted LendingCrowd 
had always made it clear that there would be a withdrawal fee of 1%. Therefore, she 
said the fee would be payable whenever a withdrawal was made from the account 
(irrespective of when or why the withdrawal was made).
The fee was not linked to the reinvestment of Mr Ws capital and so she didnt agree 
that it was unfair for LendingCrowd to charge the withdrawal fee.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. He said it was unfair for LendingCrowd to
withdraw the service that hed signed up to and yet still charge the full fee for that service.
He remained of the opinion that LendingCrowd should allow him to lend at his own risk or
significantly reduce the fee it charges when it hasnt provided any of its lending services.
As such, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. I include this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive very carefully considered the detailed submissions that Mr W has provided. I can confirm
that Ive read and considered his submissions in their entirety. In reaching my provisional
decision, Ive considered LendingCrowds regulatory obligations. LendingCrowd is
authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated
firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says, The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
LendingCrowd was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
COBS 18.12.17R Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is 
facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm 
must ensure that the price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and 
appropriate.
LendingCrowd needed to ensure that the information it gave Mr W regarding his account
was clear, fair and not misleading. It also needed to pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and, more specifically in this case, ensure any price offered for exiting loan parts
was fair and appropriate.
LendingCrowds terms and conditions relevant at the time Mr W opened his account
explained:
11.1 Sellers may sell Loan Parts to other Lenders through the Loan Market.
[]
11.6 We give no guarantee as to the time that it may take for a Seller to sell any Loan
Part, nor that there will be any Buyer for a Loan Part.
From these terms and conditions, I think LendingCrowd made it clear to Mr W that whilst the
Loan Market provided an option for Mr W to explore when looking to purchase existing loan
parts, his ability to do so was never guaranteed. I appreciate LendingCrowd didnt explain it
could pause the Loan Market on a temporary basis, but I dont think this renders the
promotion of investing through LendingCrowd misleading. Im satisfied that enough
information was given to Mr W to make him aware that investing via the Loan Market wasnt
guaranteed.
LendingCrowd has explained why it decided to pause new retail lending and suspend its
Loan Market. Notwithstanding the fact that I don't think selling or buying on the Loan Market
was guaranteed or contractual, Ive considered its reasons and think they're also fair and
reasonable in the circumstances it faced during the onset of the global pandemic. As
outlined above, LendingCrowd must ensure that it fairly and appropriately prices loan parts
sold on the Loan Market. Clearly, its ability to do so had been impaired by the pandemic.
Generally, investees ability to repay loans had been affected by the pandemic which in turn
made lending riskier. Ultimately, LendingCrowds choice to pause the Loan Market is a
commercial decision which its entitled to make. This isnt something this service can
change. Instead Ive looked at whether Mr W has been treated unfairly as a result of that
decision. Whilst I appreciate LendingCrowds decision to pause the Loan Market is 
inconvenient for Mr W as he wants continue to invest at his own risk, Im conscious that
allowing him to do so could be unfair due to the increased risk of the loans defaulting and
capital lost. Whilst its not clear to what degree the risk of all the loan parts has increased by,
its not my role to determine this.
The risk position is established at the moment a loan is taken out by the borrower and the
price the borrower pays remain the same throughout. However, the price a seller of a loan
receives and consequently, how much a buyer of a loan pays cant be subsequently 
repriced.
I say this as the risk of a borrower not repaying a loan can change from the inception
of the loan and as such the purpose of COBS 18.12.17R is to ensure a loan is fairly priced in
consideration of the risk at the time a loan is transferred from one investor to another.LendingCrowd has also explained that, as a result of reduced liquidity due to no new loans 
and a large number of loans unable to be sold on the Loan Market, it took the decision to 
stop accepting any new lender deposits and new lender sign ups. Again, LendingCrowds 
choice to stop new lending is a commercial decision which its entitled to make. And again, 
this isnt something this service can change. I dont think Mr W has been treated unfairly as a 
result of that decision, as he continued to benefit from interest on his existing lending and he 
was able to withdraw funds not invested and could invest this elsewhere. I appreciate he had 
to pay a withdrawal fee to do so, but I will address why I think its fair for LendingCrowd to 
charge this fee below.
Withdrawal fee
Mr W has also raised concerns around LendingCrowds 1% withdrawal fee as he doesnt
think its fair for him to be charged this when LendingCrowd isnt providing a full service.
LendingCrowd has explained that Mr W was made aware of the fee when he opened his
accounts with them. Its terms and conditions explained:
We charge a withdrawal fee (the Withdrawal Fee) of 1.00% of the capital element
of any Lender Funds withdrawn from a Passive Account, whether by transfer out,
transfer to another account or, when employed under a Passive ISA, transferred to
another ISA manager. The Withdrawal Fee will be deducted from the Lender Account
immediately prior to the payment or transfer of such Lender Funds.
As such, Im satisfied Mr W was made aware of the withdrawal fee. Furthermore,
LendingCrowd has explained that the 1% withdrawal fee is remuneration for the processing
of loan repayments and distribution of payments to lenders. It says the fee is not
associated with the re-investment of lender capital and so its chargeable regardless that
LendingCrowd has decided to stop new retail lending. As such, Im persuaded that its fair
and reasonable for LendingCrowd to continue to charge this fee. Its clear that, despite Mr W
not investing in new lending, LendingCrowd would still continue to collect and process 
borrower repayments on his existing lending and so Im not persuaded that LendingCrowd 
should waive this fee for Mr W.
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that Mr W has been treated fairly and I
dont think it was unreasonable for LendingCrowd to take the action it did in response to the
Covid-19 pandemic.
LendingCrowd accepted my provisional findings but Mr W didnt. In summary, he said:
Whilst he accepts that LendingCrowds decision to temporarily stop new lending may 
have been an entirely reasonable approach for a short period, the Loan Market 
remains shut and so he questioned how long it would need to be closed for it to be 
unreasonable. 
He wishes to make loans in the full knowledge that some will fail and hes been 
prevented from doing so for over two years now. 
Hes left with the two options of either allowing his money to sit in an account earning 
no interest (or hardly any) or to withdraw and incur the 1% fee for doing so despite 
LendingCrowd not providing the service he signed up for. 
He feels he should be allowed to withdraw without incurring the 1% withdrawal fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I fully appreciate Mr Ws frustrations regarding LendingCrowds decision to continue 
to pause the Loan Market, my findings remain unchanged.
As mentioned in my provisional findings, LendingCrowds choice to pause and to continue to 
pause the Loan Market is a commercial decision which its entitled to make. This isnt 
something this service can change. Ive considered whether Mr W has been treated unfairly 
as a result of that decision and I dont think he has. 
Mr W has the option to withdraw his money if hes unhappy with LendingCrowds decision 
and whilst he may incur the 1% withdrawal fee for doing so, Ive previously explained why I 
think its fair and reasonable for LendingCrowd to charge him this fee. Despite the Loan 
Market being paused, LendingCrowd has continued to collect and process borrower 
repayments on his existing lending and the 1% withdrawal fee is remuneration for this. This 
work by LendingCrowd has already taken place over the entirety of his time investing 
through the platform and so whilst I appreciate he feels he has no choice but to withdraw 
now, Im satisfied LendingCrowd has provided a fair and reasonable explanation as to why 
the fee should be deducted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman