DRN-4104283
The complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc have irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr T was approved for two Capital One credit cards which I will refer to as A and B. I have
detailed the initial credit limits and the credit increases for A below.
Card A  approved November 2012, with an initial £1,000 credit limit:
January 2014 £1,000 to £1,250
November 2014 £1,250 to £2,000
Card B  approved December 2016, with an initial £500 credit limit:
Mr T complained that Capital One had irresponsibly lent to him. He says he sent them 
complaint letters in 2018 and 2019, but they didnt respond to him, so he brought his 
complaint to our service.  
Capital One then issued a final response letter and they did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
They said that the complaint about card A was brought to them too late as the complaint was 
not made within six years of the account opening or by the last credit increase to £2,000 in 
November 2014. They said Mr T also hadnt provided any explanation or evidence, which 
suggests that his complaint has been made within three years of him becoming aware that 
he had cause to complain about the lending decisions taken.
Capital One has said that for Card B, they looked at several pieces of information, such as 
his annual pre-tax income disclosed on the application of £20,800, minus assumed taxes to
get to a net income figure, other debt servicing commitments that were evidenced on his 
credit file at the time. These included £6,376 of outstanding credit card debt and £1,249 in 
other unsecured borrowing (including any outstanding overdrafts). Capital One used 
estimates of housing costs and other expenditure based on Office for National Statistics on 
how much people typically spend on these items each month and based on this information, 
approved him with a credit limit of £500, which didnt increase. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. She said when Mr T contacted our service, 
he provided evidence of letters that hed sent to Capital One. The first letter was dated 14 
October 2018. Capital One said they didnt receive the letters, but she was satisfied from the 
evidence he provided, that his complaint was referred to them within six years. She said 
Capital One consented to our service looking into irresponsible lending for both cards.
Our investigator said that the decision to approve Mr T for Card A was reasonable. She said 
for both credit limit increases that there was no evidence to suggest he was struggling 
financially when his credit limit was increased. She said based on Mr Ts reported income
and level of debt, the repayments shouldve been sustainable. So she was satisfied that 
Capital Ones decision to increase his credit limit was reasonable and both limit increases 
were modest. She said for Card B, Capital One checked his credit file before approving his 
application. She said all of his accounts were being managed well and there was no 
evidence of arrears, outstanding County Court Judgements (CCJs) or previously defaulted 
debt. Our investigator said that although Mr Ts level of debt had increased, his salary had 
also increased. Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Mr T, Capital One needed to 
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable 
for him. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I 
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the 
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as 
the consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks Capital One have 
done and whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Acceptance for Card A - initial credit limit:
Ive looked at what checks Capital One said they did when initially approving Mr Ts 
application for Card A. Ill address the credit limit increases later on. Capital One said they 
looked at information provided by credit reference agencies and information that Mr T had 
provided before approving his application.
Im persuaded that the account opening checks were proportionate. I say this as the
information showed that Mr T had declared a total income of £14,400 and was self-
employed. And although I appreciate that his income may fluctuate with him being self-
employed, I would expect the declared income to be a true reflection of what Mr T would 
realistically expect to earn. Based on the income declared, it would not seem unusual for 
someone in Mr Ts industry to be earning the income he declared.  And it did not appear at 
the time the searches were carried out, that Mr T had any unsecured credit elsewhere. 
It does not appear that Mr T had any adverse credit at the time he was approved for Card A 
and the credit limit was less than 10% of what he declared as his income. I wouldnt expect 
Mr T to include his expenses in this as this would be unlikely to be taxable. So Im satisfied 
that the checks Capital One carried out here, prior to approving the initial £1,000 credit limit 
were proportionate and that Capital One made a fair lending decision to approve Mr Ts 
application for Card A.
January 2014 credit limit increase for Card A - £1,000 to £1,250
Ive looked at the information that Capital One had available to them when they increased Mr
Ts credit limit. The increase here was an extra £250. This increase was 14 months after 
Card A was approved, so Capital One had a fair amount of information to see how he had 
been managing his account. I can see that Mr T had incurred an overlimit charge, within four 
months of Card A being opened. This may suggest that Mr T may not be managing his 
finances effectively here. So Ive looked at the data Capital One had around the time to get a 
broader sense of how Mr T was managing his finances prior to his credit limit being 
increased.
The data appears to show that Mr T contacted Capital One on 11 February 2013 and he was 
unhappy that they allowed him to go over his credit limit. Capital One agreed to refund the 
fee as a gesture of goodwill. Mr T did not exceed his credit limit again prior to the increase of his credit limit to £1,250. So it does appear that this was a genuine error here. The data 
shows there were no late payments. 
Ive considered that Mr T used most of the initial credit limit in a short period of time. He did 
benefit from an introductory 0% interest offer on purchases on this card, so Im not 
persuaded it would be unusual for someone to take advantage of this offer and use what 
credit limit was available to them. Using an available credit limit on its own in quick fashion 
is not a sole indicator that someone is in financial difficulty, or the lending is unaffordable. 
But it can be an indicator that someone is hungry for credit. So Ive had a look what other 
data Capital One looked at prior to increasing his credit limit.
Capital Ones data also shows that his unsecured borrowings had increased to £300 
between the acceptance from Card A and the increase to £1,250. But the data from the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) showed that he had no defaulted accounts, no CCJs, no 
payday loans and no accounts in arrears. So Im satisfied that the checks Capital One 
carried out here, prior to increasing Mr Ts credit limit to £1,250 were proportionate and that 
Capital One made a fair lending decision to increase his credit limit here.
November 2014 credit limit increase for A - £1,250 to £2,000
Ive looked at the information that Capital One had available to them when they increased Mr
Ts credit limit. The new credit limit was three times the increase which they approved 10 
months earlier (£750 increase compared to £250 increase in January 2014). So Ive looked 
at the data Capital One had around the time to get a broader sense of how Mr T was 
managing his finances prior to his credit limit being increased.
I can see that Mr T had incurred an overlimit charge in the same statement period of his 
increase in January 2014, but it appears that this was again a genuine error as Mr T was 
using the credit which was made available to him and he didnt incur another overlimit 
charge prior to his credit limit being increased to £2,000.
Ive considered again that Mr T had used most of the previous credit limit increase. But the 
increase was £250 and Mr T made two purchases through a third party provider for £109.29 
and £130 in late January 2014. Im not persuaded that these two payments meant Mr T was 
in financial difficulty. These dont appear to be any payments for essential bills or to pay any 
credit providers. As Ive previously mentioned, utilising an available credit limit isnt a sole 
factor in determining whether someone is suffering financial difficulties, so Ive looked to see 
what other data Capital One had available to them.
Capital Ones data also shows that Mr T made no late payments on Card A from the account 
opening, so he did not appear to be in financial difficulties, even if he did utilise most of the 
credit when it was available to him. Capital Ones data also shows that his unsecured 
borrowings had increased to £800 between the last credit limit increase to the credit limit 
increase to £2,000. So if he used all of the new credit limit and his £800 external debt, this 
would be less than a fifth of what income he declared when Card A was first opened. And 
although Mr T had previously used his available credit limit, this is not a guarantee he would 
do so again. So Ive had a look at the data from the CRAs around this time. 
The data from the CRAs again showed that he had no defaulted accounts, no CCJs, no 
payday loans and no accounts in arrears. So Im satisfied that the checks Capital One 
carried out here, prior to increasing Mr Ts credit limit to £2,000 were proportionate and that 
Capital One made a fair lending decision to increase his credit limit here.
Acceptance for Card B - initial credit limit:Ive looked at what checks Capital One said they did when initially approving Mr Ts 
application for Card B. Again, Capital One said they looked at information provided by CRAs 
and information that Mr T had provided before approving his application.
Mr T said that his income was now £20,800 which was £6,400 more than it was four years 
earlier when he applied for Card A. So it would appear on the surface that he may have 
more disposable income than he previously had. 
But the checks showed that Mr Ts unsecured borrowings had increased by a substantial 
amount. In the 25 months from when his credit limit on Card A increased to £2,000 to when 
Mr T was approved for Card B, his external third party unsecured borrowings had risen from 
£800 to £5,684. So this should raise concerns that Mr T had taken on a substantial amount 
of extra debt. The increase of his external debt was over 700% in only 25 months.
Although Mr T had no late payments or overlimit fees for Card A during this time, there were 
strong indicators of him suffering financial difficulty and Ill explain why. Capital Ones data 
showed that although Mr T had only opened one new account in the previous 25 months, his 
usage of his existing accounts meant that he either was granted further credit limit increases 
during the 25 month period (like he did with Card A) or he utilised substantially more of his 
credit limit, which would show he was more reliant on the credit. Or possibly using debt to 
pay debt. Either way, it shows that Mr T was much hungrier for credit than he was when he 
was approved for the last credit limit increase on Card A.
And on all of Mr Ts external accounts, they could see that Mr T was close to his credit limit. 
He had just opened a current account in March 2016 and the data shows he was £1,249 into 
a £1,250 overdraft limit. So Capital One would be aware that within the nine months prior to 
Card B being approved, that Mr T applied for credit, was approved, and was virtually at his 
maximum overdraft limit already. Based on Mr Ts earnings, it would be extremely unlikely 
for Mr T to be able to have enough disposable income to be able to leave his arranged 
overdraft. And theres a strong possibility he was using debt (his overdraft) to make his 
repayments  which were typically only the minimum monthly repayments to Capital One. 
Mr T had access to £8,200 revolving debt when Card B was approved. This would be close 
to half of his net earnings. Although Mr T had not defaulted on any of his accounts previously 
or had any CCJs, at this point, the signs were that the new significant increase in 
borrowings between the last increase on Card A and the approval of Card B shows that this 
lending was unlikely to be affordable or sustainable.
Im not persuaded that a fair lending decision was made for Card B. To summarise, while his 
earnings had increased and he had no adverse data at this point, his external debt had 
increased by more than 700% in just over two years (by nearly £5,000 which was more than 
a quarter of his net earnings), his appetite for credit was apparent by him utilising virtually all 
of the credit that was made available to him, including him only just being approved for an 
overdraft earlier in the year that Card B was accepted and he maximised this also, all within 
a short period of time. The rate at which Mr T was accumulating debt in the previous 25 
month period, (compared to when Card A was approved, even with the credit limit increases) 
was not sustainable. And Im persuaded that Capital One should have been aware of this 
and not made the lending decision that they did for Card B. So it follows, I intend to ask 
Capital One to put things right for Mr T.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Capital One accepted the provisional decision, but they wanted to add that they 
don't agree that a high utilisation of credit shows a lack of affordability and wouldn'trule a customer out from being provided with a card and that their calculations showed that 
even with the increase in additional debt, Mr Ts income was sufficient to support the card 
they were providing.
Mr T did not accept the provisional decision regarding Card A. He made a number of points. 
In summary, he said that the interest free period was an initial three month period designed 
to allow him to make purchases that could be paid off before the offer ended, but his March 
2013 statement showed that he was charged interest immediately after the interest free 
period ended due to him not paying any of the credit balance before his offer expired. He 
said while it may be reasonable to expect a customer to make use of a balance during an 
interest free period, it would not be reasonable to assume that leaving the balance 
outstanding on a continuous basis was a sign of well-managed finances.
Mr T said that in almost every month, the minimum payment was made, and then shortly 
thereafter, the balance which was left was used again. He said he repeatedly used the card 
to pay an electricity company and the only additional payments made were to cover new 
purchases in the region of £5, which was a clear indicator that he was not managing his 
finances well.
Mr T said the argument that Capital One now had an account history that showed payments 
being made on time, and therefore an increase was suitable is incorrect, as the additional 
purchases made with the balance show that the increase was not suitable, especially when 
considering that the balance was never reduced, which is a primary indicator according to 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines and should not be overlooked. He said 
when the second limit increase was considered, Capital One could also see an increase in 
other borrowing facilities as well as his continued re-use of his balance on his Capital One 
card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about the FCA guidelines. Mr T should be aware that 
before April 2014 (which would cover off the approval for Card A and the first limit increase 
for Card A), the relevant body for issuing the guidance for irresponsible lending was The 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT). His second increase in November 2014 would be covered 
under the FCA guidelines. I have consulted the relevant guidance when reaching my 
decision. 
Mr T has commented on the interest free period and that it would not be reasonable to 
assume that leaving the balance outstanding on a continuous basis was a sign of well-
managed finances. When Capital One approved the credit card they would not know how Mr 
T would intend to use the card, they could only look at what his credit file showed how he 
managed his finances and the information that he had provided to them. Im not persuaded 
that leaving a balance outstanding on a continuous basis is a sign that someone is in 
financial difficulties either. A consumer may choose to purchase items using their card to 
avoid them paying the cost up front. 
Capital One were aware that Mr T was self-employed. So there may be times where he 
needed flexibility and the credit card would offer him flexibility. Although Mr T regularly paid 
an electricity company, Im not persuaded that this is a sign he was in financial difficulties, 
He would be entitled to use any amount of the credit limit in a way that is in line with the 
credit agreement. Although Mr T may have generally made the minimum repayments, this does not suggest on 
its own that further borrowing would be unaffordable, or unsustainable. It was only two years 
from the initial acceptance of Card A to the last credit limit increase on Card A, as opposed 
to Card B being approved over four years after Card A. Im persuaded that the checks that 
Capital One carried out prior to the credit limit increasing on Card A were proportionate and 
at the time repayments would have been sustainable. The first increase was for £250. As I 
said in my provisional decision Capital Ones data also shows that his unsecured 
borrowings had increased to £300 between the acceptance from Card A and the increase to 
£1,250. But the data from the credit reference agencies (CRAs) showed that he had no 
defaulted accounts, no CCJs, no payday loans and no accounts in arrears.
Mr T was not withdrawing cash from his credit card and there appears to be no evidence he 
was using his available credit limit to pay off unsecured borrowings elsewhere. As I said in 
my provisional decision Ive considered again that Mr T had used most of the previous 
credit limit increase. But the increase was £250 and Mr T made two purchases through a 
third party provider for £109.29 and £130 in late January 2014. Im not persuaded that these 
two payments meant Mr T was in financial difficulty. These dont appear to be any payments 
for essential bills or to pay any credit providers. As Ive previously mentioned, utilising an 
available credit limit isnt a sole factor in determining whether someone is suffering financial 
difficulties. If Mr T was having financial difficulties, then I would have expected this to be 
reflected in the checks Capital One carried out.
I say this because in the 14 months between Card A being approved and the first credit limit 
increase, his external borrowings had only increased by £300. So as Im persuaded that the 
initial Card A credit limit was affordable, an increase of his external borrowings of £300 over 
this time period would not substantially affect the affordability (unlike for Card B when this 
rose from £800 to £5,684  over a 700% increase). There were no adverse credit markers 
on his credit file and he generally managed his account well  making repayments on time, 
generally not exceeding his credit limit. When Card A and the credit limit increases were 
approved, his credit file didnt show any overdraft, so again, it would appear that Mr T could 
afford the repayments from his own income and there is no evidence that he used debt to 
repay debt.
As I said in my provisional decision regarding the increase to £2,000 which was approved in 
November 2014, Capital Ones data also shows that Mr T made no late payments on Card 
A from the account opening, so he did not appear to be in financial difficulties, even if he did 
utilise most of the credit when it was available to him. Capital Ones data also shows that his 
unsecured borrowings had increased to £800 between the last credit limit increase to the 
credit limit increase to £2,000. So if he used all of the new credit limit and his £800 external 
debt, this would be less than a fifth of what income he declared when Card A was first 
opened. And although Mr T had previously used his available credit limit, this is not a 
guarantee he would do so again. So Ive had a look at the data from the CRAs around this 
time. The data from the CRAs again showed that he had no defaulted accounts, no CCJs, 
no payday loans and no accounts in arrears. So Im satisfied that the checks Capital One 
carried out here, prior to increasing Mr Ts credit limit to £2,000 were proportionate and that 
Capital One made a fair lending decision to increase his credit limit here.
Based on the information that Mr T has provided to us, it appears to show that Mr Ts 
financial difficulty took hold around April 2015. This is where his external debt started to 
increase substantially. Im satisfied that Capital One performed proportionate checks when 
approving Card A and the credit limit increases which at the time of these checks showed 
that Mr T had the affordability to make his repayments in a sustainable manner. Even though 
he often paid the minimum repayment and then utilised the credit again. Ive also 
documented the reasons which show that Mr T did not appear to be suffering financial 
difficulty at the time Card A was approved or the credit limit increases on Card A only.In summary, Mr Ts response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr T will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Capital One (Europe) plc to do the following on Card B only:
Capital One should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to 
a debt recovery agent;
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr T along with 8%
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Mr Ts credit file;
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Capital One should arrange an
affordable repayment plan with Mr T for the remaining amount. Once Mr T has cleared
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from his
credit file.
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
*If Capital One considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, they should tell Mr T how much theyve taken off. They should also give
Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Capital One (Europe) plc should settle the complaint in line 
with the instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman