DRN-3222931
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt fairly compensated it for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on a credit card taken out by the late Mr S (card ending 
2380.) In particular the estate of Mr S believes the PPI redress should include the amount of 
the outstanding balance on the credit card, which it says the PPI should have covered, but 
which the estate of Mr S had to settle instead.
What happened
While Ive read everything submitted by both parties to the complaint, Im not going to set out
all of the events and circumstances leading up to this complaint in detail here - they are
known by both parties and are not disputed. The dispute is about how things should be
resolved. So briefly:
In February 2021 Lloyds upheld the estate of Mr S credit card PPI mis-sale complaint and it 
made an offer of compensation of amount just over £2,000.
The adjudicator who looked at the complaint said that they had reviewed Lloyds calculations 
and in their view the compensation was fair and had been calculated in line with what the 
Financial Ombudsman Service would expect. They said the breakdown of the calculation 
showed PPI was paid between 1995 until August 2002 when it appeared the policy was 
cancelled.
The estate of Mr S disagrees. In summary it asks how the policy was cancelled in 2002 
when it says the late Mr S was in hospital. And it asks how the offer of just over £2,000 
equates to the amount covered by the policy i.e. the outstanding balance on the card.
The complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  I think Lloyds offer of 
compensation is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Before I do, Im mindful that the estate of Mr S has also complained about Lloyds complaint 
handling and administrative and/or customer services issues connected to it. These points 
were largely addressed in the estate of Mr S linked complaint - but for the sake of clarity I 
will summarise the position on these matters here also.
I cant look at complaint points about complaint handling  they are not within my power to 
deal with as complaint handling is not a regulated activity as defined in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook. And secondly I cannot make a distress and 
inconvenience or cost award to third parties. And this includes executors or representatives 
of an estate. I do not have the power to direct a business to make payments to third parties. 
So even if I could consider these matters, I cant make an award in any event.
Turning to the matter of the PPI compensation  Ive carefully looked at the offer made by 
Lloyds including reviewing the detailed calculation it has provided. And having done so, Im 
satisfied the calculation is in line with what I would expect to see and in my view represents 
fair compensation in the circumstances. 
Broadly the calculation involves reconstructing the credit card account comparing how the 
late Mr S credit card account ran with PPI to how it would have run without PPI and 
refunding the difference (I can also see Lloyds has added compensatory interest on the 
difference.) The difference includes the PPI premiums paid, any interest on those premiums 
as well as any fees, and interest on those fees, as a result of PPI. Where the reconstruction 
shows the account would otherwise have been in credit, 8% simple interest is added to 
compensate for being out of the money. 
While Lloyds doesnt have detailed account transactional history prior to 2000, it has made 
assumptions about the running of the account. This involves looking at the data it does have 
and working the account balance back to the start date of 1995 by adopting a similar 
account behaviour pattern. In the absence of anything else I think this is fair and reasonable.
So taking everything into account, I think the offer represents fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
I can see the estate of Mr S considers fair redress should also include the amount it paid to 
clear the outstanding account balance  an amount in excess of £7,000 - following Mr S 
death. It says it shouldnt have had to pay this sum because the PPI should have paid out 
and covered it. It questions why the late Mr S would have cancelled the policy in 2002 
because he was ill at the time.
Looking at the credit card account statements I can see the PPI charges ceased after the 
August 2002 statement. Lloyds says this is because the policy was cancelled on 5 
September 2002. I asked Lloyds for some supporting evidence of the policy cancellation  
but unfortunately due to the passage of time the account is no longer on its internal system. 
So theres no documentary evidence other than the account statements.
I can understand why the estate of Mr S considers the timing of the cancellation is odd given 
it occurred not long before Mr S death. But I think it unlikely that Lloyds would have initiated 
the cancellation  it didnt have a reason do so. The only circumstances where this typically 
happens is where an account holder fails to make any payments to the account for a set 
period. But this wasnt the case here  the late Mr S continued to make payments to the 
account.
Its possible the late Mr S cancelled the policy at this time because he was no longer working 
 Mr S might not have realised the policy provided life cover for example. But taking 
everything into account, I think on balance Mr S likely cancelled the policy - Ive not seen 
enough to persuade me otherwise. This means because there was no PPI policy in place at 
the time of Mr S death I wont be telling Lloyds to refund to the estate of Mr S the payment it 
made to settle the account balance.
Finally in answer to the estate of Mr S question about the breakdown of Lloyds offer  the 
PPI charged to the account amounted to just over £800 with an additional £100 or so in interest charges. This equates to the difference in payments. The remainder comprises 
compensatory interest on that difference.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied Lloyds offer of compensation is fair in all the circumstances of 
this case. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  I consider Lloyds Bank 
PLCs offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances.
I understand that Lloyds Bank PLC has not yet made payment to the estate of Mr S - so it 
should now do so in a timely manner and to the account nominated by the representatives of 
the estate of Mr S. I expect Lloyds to bring its offer of payment up to date where appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman