DRN-4218966
The complaint
Miss M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Finance 
(VWFS) mishandled her complaint about the quality of a car she had acquired under a hire 
purchase agreement and the service she had received from the supplying dealer.
What happened
In August 2022 Miss M attended a dealership and found a car (car 1) she wanted to 
purchase. She traded in her existing car and entered into a four-year hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS to finance her acquiring the car. This car was around two years old 
and had a mileage just under 14,000. 
Miss M says that within only a few weeks the cars engine light illuminated and so she 
returned it to the supplying dealer for them to investigate. The dealership had the car for one 
week and provided Miss M with a courtesy car during that period, Miss M was unhappy 
about the condition of the courtesy car as it was dirty and had very little petrol in its tank. 
Miss M says she was then told by the supplying dealer that a part needed to be ordered for 
her car. She was unhappy about the cars condition and worried that it wasnt safe to drive. 
She negotiated with the supplying dealership to take the car back in exchange for another 
one. The second car (car 2) was also a used car, and a new hire purchase agreement was 
entered into by Miss M again with VWFS.
Miss M was unhappy as she says she didnt receive the full road tax fund she was due from 
DVLA for the car 1 and then in October VWFS tried to take a direct debit from her account 
for the first agreement. This direct debit was declined, and a missed payment notice was 
recorded on her credit file impacting her ability to obtain credit.
Miss M had a number of other concerns about the agreement for the car 2, including about 
the paperwork she had been provided and whether car 2 was in her name.
In February 2023 Miss M complained to VWFS about the quality of the car 1 and that it had 
sought to take a payment from her in October despite car 1 having been taken by the 
supplying dealer in part-exchange. VWFS didnt uphold her complaint. It said that the 
agreement for car 1 had still been live when the October payment had fallen due and so it 
had acted correctly in seeking the direct debit. VWFS said it wasnt until November 2022 that 
the dealership had settled the outstanding amount and it had now removed any adverse 
information from Miss Ms credit file. It said it had correctly reported the missed payment.
Miss M was unhappy at the response from VWFS and complained to this service. She raised 
a number of issues about the service shed received from the supplying dealership, the 
quality of car 1 and concerns about the paperwork of car 2 and whether it had been correctly 
registered in her name.
Our investigator explained that not everything she had raised could be considered by this 
service because they either werent regulated activities (such as the refunding of the road 
tax, the warranty and the supplying dealers service) or in the case of Miss Ms concerns 
about the second hire purchase agreement (the amount of interest charged, lack of 
paperwork) as these hadnt yet been raised with VWFS. Our investigator said she could only 
consider the issues Miss M had raised as to the quality of car 1 and the direct debit/missed 
payment.
Our investigator said she wasnt recommending that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld as 
she didnt think VWFS had done anything wrong. Although car 1s engine light had 
illuminated, our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to say what was wrong with 
the car and she thought Miss M had part-exchanged car 1 for car 2 as per the early 
settlement rights set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement. Our investigator said 
she didnt think the car had been rejected as per the Consumer Rights Act 2015 but rather 
handed back to the supplying dealer.
In regard to the October direct debit, our investigator said this had fallen due before the car 
had been part-exchanged for car 2 and so VWFS hadnt acted unfairly in seeking to collect it 
or then marking it as a missed payment.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view. She said everything arose from the same 
incident and so it was unfair this service didnt look at all of the matters she had raised. She 
said she was seeking reimbursement of the missing road tax amount, reimbursement of 
petrol costs travelling to the dealership, compensation for having to use an unsafe car (car 
1), compensation for car 2 not being put in her name and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused having to deal with it all. She also said she was unhappy at the 
interest rate charged on the hire purchase agreement for car 2 and that she hadnt heard 
from VWFS about anything raised as to this car.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
Im afraid Im going to disappoint Miss M by limiting my decision to the same things 
considered by our investigator. While I appreciate Miss Ms view that her complaints all 
arise from the same cause, this services remit is subject to certain rules. And this means 
it cant look at all the things she has raised. Firstly, the supplying dealership and VWFS 
are separate entiies so VWFS isnt necessarily responsible for everything a dealership 
does. This service can only look at regulated activities such as the supply of a credit 
agreement to a consumer. And secondly, for this service to consider a complaint from a 
consumer it must have first been raised the business so it has an opportunity to 
investigate it and provide a response.
Car 1
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss M is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, then as set out above, this service is able to consider complaints relating to 
it. VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around two years old and had a mileage of 14,000 so some wear and tear 
would have been suffered by its components and repair and maintenance issues would be 
expected to arise after a reasonable period of time.
Ive seen that Miss M complains that within only a few weeks the engine light illuminated, 
and the car was taken back to the supplying dealer. I appreciate Miss M was unhappy about 
the courtesy car she received but this was supplied by the dealer and not VWFS. There isnt 
anything in the hire purchase agreement that says if the car is taken in for 
investigation/repairs that VWFS supply an alternative vehicle. This means that any issues 
with the courtesy car arent VWFSs responsibility. 
Ive seen that the supplying dealer kept car 1 for about a week. Miss M says she was told a 
part needed to be ordered but it seems agreed by Miss M that no repairs were carried out. 
The engine management light can illuminate for a number of reasons and so I cant 
reasonably say I have enough evidence to say there was a fault with the car.
Miss M says she told the dealership she didnt feel safe in the car. and it was agreed that the 
supplying dealer would accept the car back in part-exchange for another and a hire 
purchase agreement would be set up. At this point VWFS was unaware of any issue with the 
car and so wasnt able to investigate whether the car was of unsatisfactory quality or not. 
If the car had a fault, then its possible it may have been considered as not being of 
satisfactory quality which would mean that Miss M may have had the right to reject it and 
cancel the agreement. But I would need to see evidence that this was the case and as set 
out above there is no evidence of any repairs being carried out nor of any issues with the car 
save that the engine light was illuminated. So, I cant reasonably say that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that under the Consumer Rights Act Miss M had the right to hand it 
back.
As I cant say the car was either faulty or developing a fault from the point of supply then I 
dont think I can fairly ask VWFS to reimburse Miss M her petrol costs travelling to and from 
the supplying dealership. I also dont think I can reasonably ask it to pay Miss M 
compensation for dealing with a car that was unsafe as I dont have sufficient evidence to 
confirm that.
Miss M, having lost confidence with the car agreed with the supplying dealer to use it in part-
exchange for another car. This was sorted out in October 2022. Any issue with the 
agreement for car 2 needs to be raised with VWFS so that it can make enquiries into that. 
Ive seen VWFS has now opened a new complaint for Miss M. I agree with VWFS that her 
complaint about the hire purchase agreement for car 2 didnt form part of her original 
complaint to it about car 1. I therefore cant look at that matter until VWFS has provided its 
response to Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M has raised an issue with the DVLA not reimbursing her the full amount due for an 
unused portion of the road tax shed paid for. But it was the supplying dealer who notified the 
DVLA about when the car was sold by Miss M and as set out above this isnt a regulated activity nor anything VWFS would be responsible for.
Ive seen Miss M was unhappy about VWFS seeking the October payment under the 
agreement. But I dont think VWFS acted unfairly when doing so as at that time the hire 
purchase agreement for car 1 was still live and the payment. Miss M was still liable for the 
payment. The supplying dealership cleared this amount in November when it settled the 
agreement having purchased car 1. I think VWFS was therefore entitled to seek the payment 
and report it as missing. Ive seen that VWFS has now removed this adverse information 
from Miss Ms credit file which I think is fair and I wouldnt ask it to do more.
So, although I appreciate Miss M will find my decision to limit the scope of what I am looking 
at frustrating and will be disappointed with my decision, Im not upholding her complaint. 
However her complaint about the hire purchase agreement for car 2 is still to be considered 
by VWFS.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman