DRN-2236405
complaint
Mrs D says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs D bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit card and PPI policy in branch. 
At the time, Mrs D was employed as a supervisor. She has told us she was entitled to some 
employee benefits from her employer and  didnt have any other means of repaying her 
credit card should she be unable to work. Mrs D has told us she had a medical condition 
some time before the sale. I will come back to this later on in this decision.
The policy wording from the time Mrs D was sold her PPI is no longer available. I have, 
however, seen a copy of the policy wording dated six months after Mrs D took out her credit 
card (which is the earliest available policy document) and which I accept on the balance of 
probabilities is likely to represent what Mrs D bought. This shows the policy provided cover 
for accident, sickness, unemployment and death  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It 
offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ds credit card balance in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost 70p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue 
to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest. 
Barclaycard has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 
September 2005.
Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ds representative says:
Barclaycard failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Barclaycard should 
have told Mrs D about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclaycard should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mrs D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings 
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, Ive read and Ive considered all 
the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2005 That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Barclaycard at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Banking 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclaycard was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If Barclaycard gave advice, whether it advised Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether Barclaycard gave Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs D suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs D and 
Barclaycard, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs D know she had a choice?
Barclaycard had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Barclaycard has sent us a copy of Mrs Ds credit card application form from the time of sale.
On the application from I can see Mrs D was given the option of selecting whether or not she
wanted the PPI added to her account. On Mrs Ds signed application form, theres a tick in 
the box for the PPI, indicating she wanted it.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs D knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclaycard provide advice?
Barclaycard says advice was provided during this sale. Mrs D hasnt said whether she
received advice or not. Overall, I think the evidence indicates this was an advised sale.
This means Barclaycard had to advise Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclaycard took to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs D. It seems Mrs D cant remember clearly what happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising 
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited information about 
Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs D would have been caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest Barclaycard considered whether Mrs D had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Barclaycard did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs D given her circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Barclaycard advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclaycard did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Mrs D met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Mrs D had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ds ability to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period of time  even allowing for employment benefits she 
says she would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mrs D.- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mrs D. While Mrs 
D has told us that she was on a fixed-term contract at  the time of sale, shes also 
told us that she had a guaranteed permanent job with the same employer after her 
fixed-term contract ended which was only a few months later. As a result, there was 
nothing about Mrs Ds employment or occupation which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs D has told us about a 
medical condition she remembers having around 14 years before the sale, because 
shes not said or suggested it was ongoing  or importantly that she suffered with it in 
in the 12 months before the sale - under the terms of the policy she didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions.  There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
- While the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ds 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, Barclaycard gave Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what 
Barclaycard was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs D was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think Mrs D would have been told this  at the very least  during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs D would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. 
The application form she signed also described the policy as Payment Protection Plan and 
theres a tick in the box net to the statement Yes, I want my Barclaycard account(s) to be 
covered against unemployment, accident, sickness and death. Subject to my application for 
a Barclaycard being accepted I authorise you to debit my Barclaycard account(s) to which 
this application relates with the monthly premiums due until further notice from me to the 
contrary, or redemption of the Plan. This would have given Mrs D some idea of what the 
policy was for. I also think this shows the policy wasnt free and its likely Mrs D would have 
understood that shed have to pay something to have the cover in place.
But the evidence from the time of the sale doesnt tell us whether Barclaycard gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums 
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid at the end of the month, 
and were payable during a claim) or about the exclusions and limitations, before Mrs D 
agreed to take out the policy. Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mrs 
D might have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied that the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs D, Im not persuaded 
Barclaycard did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to Mrs D. Im not persuaded that Barclaycard gave Mrs D 
all of the information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about 
whether to follow the recommendation and take out the policy.Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ds. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mrs D about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs D has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclaycard ought to have done either. 
what effect did Barclaycards shortcomings have on Mrs D? To what extent did Mrs D 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclaycard didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs D. 
So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs D 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mrs D 
would have still taken out the policy, had Barclaycard done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Barclaycard took the steps it should have done to establish 
whether the policy it recommended was suitable for Mrs D, Ive found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mrs D has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Barclaycard had explained things 
properly, Mrs D would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mrs D says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. I have considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs D had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean when Barclaycard advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what she thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mrs Ds circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs D ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding balance  
this was set out on the credit card application form. But, I accept that Barclaycard didnt 
make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mrs D didnt know some things, the 
ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would 
reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to take out the policy 
on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs D thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition or injury 
which Mrs D knew about or which she asked about, or received advice, treatment or 
counselling for from any Doctor in the 12 months immediately before the policy start 
date;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mrs D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs D be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
 The accident, sickness and unemployment cover ended when Mrs D turned 65.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might well 
have caused Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs D from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. she was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs D didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and her employment situation wouldnt have prevented her from 
claiming under the policy terms. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs D would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.If Mrs D had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable to do any paid work which in the insurers view she 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what he would 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ds 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would have been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs D would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ds representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to conclude there 
were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs D would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs D 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs D believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs D in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Barclaycard should pay Mrs D compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. Im also aware that Mrs D thinks Barclaycard misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Barclaycards statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Barclaycard failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Barclaycard gave Mrs D, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 1995 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ds representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclaycard negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs D and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclaycard had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs D in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman