DRN-3676090
The complaint
Miss T has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled 
her claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T had an accident involving a third party in November 2019. She made a claim 
under her policy and provided details of the accident to Advantage. She also told them 
there was CCTV evidence available. Advantage received a claim from the third partys 
representative for their losses as a result of the accident. They obtained the CCTV 
evidence, but had a problem viewing it. This caused some delays, which were the 
subject of a previous complaint. Advantage dealt with this separately to this complaint.
Having told Miss T they were going to defend the claim from the third party, Advantage 
changed their mind and agreed to settle it on a 50/50 basis. Miss T was unhappy about 
this, as she thought it was the wrong decision. She complained to Advantage. They said 
they were right to settle on a 50/50 basis. Because Miss T wasnt happy about this she 
complained to us.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ts complaint. He thought the CCTV evidence 
suggested Miss T wasnt at fault for the accident and that Advantage had acted unfairly by 
settling the claim on a 50/50 basis. He said to put things right Advantage should get an 
expert legal opinion on whether they would have been able to defend the claim from the 
third party and pay Miss T £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Advantage didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
They said they didnt need a legal opinion to show their decision to settle 50/50 was 
reasonable, as their claim handlers are experienced and familiar with case law. And they 
were confident their decision to settle 50/50 was appropriate.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 August and I set out what Id provisionally decided 
as follows:
Under the terms of Miss Ts policy Advantage had the right to settle claims from third 
parties against her as they felt appropriate. However, its well established good industry 
practice that an insurer should act reasonably when exercising this right. So, the first thing 
I need to consider is whether Advantage did act reasonably when they decided to settle 
the claim against Miss T on a 50/50 basis. And I dont think they did.
The key piece of evidence in this case is the CCTV footage. This clearly shows Miss T 
approaching a mini-roundabout, which doesnt have a turn off to the right, with her then 
indicating to turn right. The third party is immediately behind Miss T and should have seen 
her indicate and known she was going to turn to the right, as opposed to going left or 
straight on. Despite this it looks like the third party tried to overtake Miss T on her right, 
which resulted in them colliding with her car. Miss T was going to do a U-turn on the 
roundabout and this is why she indicated right and moved slightly to the left as she 
approached the roundabout. And, the Highway Code does say to avoid doing U-turns at 
mini-roundabouts.
But it also says drivers should be aware of others doing so. Therefore, I dont think it was 
appropriate for the third party to attempt to overtake Miss T, as he should have realised 
she was going to turn to the right to do a U-turn when she indicated.
Whilst, it is not my role to actually decide liability in this sort of case, I cant ignore the fact 
that Advantage took a decision to settle the claim against Miss T without giving what I 
consider to be proper weight to the evidence in her favour. And, I think, at the very least it 
should have got an expert legal opinion, before agreeing to settle 50/50. The fact it didnt 
means it may well have prejudiced Miss Ts position, as she now has a fault claim 
against her record and her no claim discount (NCD) has been reduced. This means shes 
paid a lot more in premium from April 2020 onwards, without having any prospect of 
getting this back.
So, whilst it is now not possible for me to know for sure what would have happened if 
Advantage had defended the third partys claim against Miss T, I think she should get the 
benefit of the doubt. This is on the basis that it is fair and reasonable for Advantage to 
bear the consequences of their decision not to properly take into account the evidence in 
Miss Ts favour, as opposed to Miss T. Therefore, as part of the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint, I think that Advantage should mark the claim as non-fault 
(bonus-allowed) on their records and on any external databases. I also think they should 
retrospectively reinstate Miss Ts NCD and provide proof of what it would have been in 
April 2020 with the claim marked as non-fault. Advantage should then refund the extra 
premium Miss T paid to them from April 2020 onwards as a result of having a lower NCD, 
plus interest at 8% per annum simple.
If Miss T moved to a new insurer at any point, she should contact them with proof that 
her NCD has been reinstated and ask them to provide an appropriate refund of 
premium.
I also think Advantages unreasonable decision to settle on a 50/50 basis caused Miss 
T unnecessary distress and inconvenience and I agree with our investigator that 
Advantage should pay £150 in compensation for this.
I gave both parties until 7 September to provide further comments and evidence. 
Miss T has said she is happy with what Ive provisionally decided and has nothing further 
to add. 
Advantage have come back to say they dont agree with what Ive provisionally decided. 
Theyve queried what jurisdiction I have regarding complaints about liability. This is on 
the basis that their understanding is that Im not responsible for advising what the 
outcome in terms of liability for an accident should be; rather I should be deciding 
whether the evidence has been reviewed fairly. 
They think their decision not to defend the third partys claim was right as it can be seen 
fro the CCTV the car in front of Miss T took a much straighter path to go through the 
roundabout, whereas Miss T veered to the left. And they dont think the CCTV shows 
clearly enough she was indicating to turn to the right. And they dont think Miss T used 
her mirrors appropriataly in line with the Highway Code. In summary, they think theyve 
provided enough evidence to support their decision to settle 50/50 and they think a final 
decision on the same basis as my provisional decision would set a poor precedent for 
future cases. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction covers how insurers handle claims and this includes their approach when 
deciding whether or not to settle a third party claim against one of their customers. 
Ombudsman decisions do not set a precedent and each case is decided on its own merits. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, it's not my role to directly decide liability, but it will 
be clear from my provisional decision that in deciding whether Advantage's decision to settle 
the third party claim 50/50 was reasonable I have to consider the view they took on liability 
very carefully. 
I am surprised that Advantage have suggested the CCTV isn't clear enough to show Miss T 
was indicating to turn to the right. I think it shows this very clearly and that a court looking at 
this evidence would most likely accept she was indicating to show her intention to turn to the 
right. Therefore, even if she could see a car behind her in her mirror, she couldn't possibly 
have expected him to try and overtake her on her right, when she was indicating to turn this 
way. And - in my opinion - Miss T did not veer to the left, although I accept she moved more 
to the left than the car in front of her, which went more or less straight on. However, the key 
issue for me is that the third party should have realised Miss T was going to turn to the right 
because she was indicating to show she was going to do so. Instead they seem to have 
either missed this or ignored it. And I think this is a very strong piece of evidence in favour of 
Miss T.  
I accept it is hard to know what a court would have decided, but my point is, Advantage 
should have realised they had a reasonable chance of defending the third party claim. And 
they originally intended to do so. And I simply don't think theyve demonstrated that it was 
fair or reasonable handling of the claim to change their mind and deny Miss T the 
opportunity to have the claim recorded as non-fault on her record. This is why it remains my 
view that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is as I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
As part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, I think that Advantage should 
mark Miss Ts claim as non-fault (bonus-allowed) on their records and on any external 
databases. I also think they should retrospectively reinstate Miss Ts NCD and provide 
proof of what it would have been in April 2020 with the claim marked as non-fault. 
Advantage should then refund the extra premium Miss T paid to them from April 2020 
onwards as a result of having a lower NCD, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the 
date she paid this to the date they make this payment1.
If Miss T moved to a new insurer at any point, she can contact them with proof that her 
NCD has been reinstated and ask them to provide an appropriate refund of premium.
1 Advantage Insurance Company Limited must tell Miss T if theyve made a deduction for 
income tax. And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax 
deduction certificate for Miss T if asked to do so. This will allow Miss T to reclaim the tax 
from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.I also think Advantages unreasonable decision to settle on a 50/50 basis caused Miss 
T unnecessary distress and inconvenience and I agree with our investigator that 
Advantage should pay £150 in compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Miss Ts complaint and Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
must do what Ive set out above in the putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman