DRN-4077220
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way in which Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
handled a claim made on his home insurance policy and declining his claim.
What happened
Mr B made a claim on his home insurance policy for damage caused by water leaking from 
his washing machine. Advantage arranged for an inspection of the damage. And relying on 
the inspection report, it repudiated the claim on the basis that Mr B had not reported the 
damage sooner, the damage had been caused gradually and not because of a one-off 
event.
Mr B disagreed. So, he brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He says 
he reported the leak from the washing machine and resulting damage quickly after the 
incident. And that hed been given assurances by Advantage that it would be covering the 
costs to repair the damage. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt think Advantage had unfairly declined 
the claim. However, he did recommend Advantage pay £75 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused by poor customer service.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. Advantage felt the compensation was too 
high. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
The policy excludes damage caused by gradual causes, including anything that happens 
gradually over a period of time.
I think Advantage has fairly and reasonably relied on this term to decline the claim because 
the inspection report requested by Advantage (the inspection report) reflects:
There was evidence of pre-existing or long-term damage, that the washing machine 
was faulty and leaks out of the front door. 
The damage hadnt occurred from one incident. It had happened over a long time 
and customer is fully aware as they explained to me.
The damage hadnt occurred recently and there was evidence of mould, rot or decay 
because the wooden flooring was constantly getting wet, and this has now 
delaminated.
Mr B disputes that there was any long-term damage and says that hed promptly notified 
Advantage of the leak. Hes also provided a letter from the person whod visited his home to 
provide a quote to replace the flooring. That reflects that the damage could have occurred 
as a result of a one-off single incident leak caused by the clients washing machine (my 
emphasis). But thats not definitive and the report isnt as detailed as the inspection report.
So, I dont think Advantage has acted unreasonably by relying on the inspection report to 
decline the claim. Its detailed, contains photos and gives reasons for the opinions given. 
However, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mr B was wrongly told that the 
claim had been accepted during a call with Advantages representative on 27 May 2022. His 
submissions about what was discussed during that call are consistent and I find them 
plausible. 
He says that he was told that the next step would be for the contractor to be contacted to 
carry out the works. And when Mr B said hed received a quote from his own contractor  
which hed sent to Advantage a week before - he was told that someone would be in touch 
to obtain his bank details to make payment. Thats also somewhat supported by an internal 
email provided by Advantage dated 30 May 2022 asking someone to call Mr B as he was 
very confused that the claim had been repudiated.
By way of email to Mr B at the end of May 2022, Advantage accepted a call took place but 
due to a system error it cant provide the call. Our investigator also asked whether there 
were any notes of the call and Advantage confirmed there werent. So, on balance, I accept 
what Mr B says. 
I think Mr B wouldve been very disappointed and upset to discover that Advantage wouldnt 
be covering the costs to repair the damage given what hed been told before then. Taking 
everything into account, I think £75 fairly and reasonably reflects the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced.
Putting things right
I direct Advantage to pay £75 compensation to Mr B for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to put 
things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman