DRN-3680793
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) 
declined a claim under their deposit guarantee insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C arranged to have a new driveway laid. A company, who Ill refer to as S, 
visited their property on 1 November 2021 and provided a quotation. Mr and Mrs C agreed to 
go ahead with the work and paid a deposit of 25% of the price. 
Ss salesperson told Mr and Mrs C that their deposit would be backed up by an insurance 
policy in case S had ceased to trade. Mr and Mrs C said he didnt give them any further 
information about the insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs C also said that in the discussion with Ss salesperson, he said that the work 
wouldnt take place for a couple of months at the earliest because of a shortage of materials.
Acasta say it posted Mr and Mrs Cs policy documents to them on 25 November. Mr and Mrs 
C say they didnt receive them.
On 11 January 2022, Mr and Mrs C made a claim with Acasta because theyd found out that 
S had gone into administration. Acasta said their policy lasted for 60 days from the date the 
deposit was paid, unless itd agreed to extend it before it ended. Mr and Mrs C hadnt asked 
to extend the policy, so itd already expired and they werent able to make a claim. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold it. She said she thought Acasta had acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with its policy conditions, a copy of which had been supplied to Mr 
and Mrs C when theyd first complained. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the view. They asked that it was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr 
and Mrs C so I will explain why.
Its Mr and Mrs Cs contention that they didnt know that the deposit guarantee policy was 
valid for a limit of 60 days. They say they didnt receive a copy of the terms and conditions 
from Acasta until they made their claim. 
Acasta has said that it provided S with sample policy documents and leaflets so that they 
could be given to customers, but it appears in this case that Mr and Mrs C didnt receive one. 
Acasta has supplied a copy of the policy information which it says was produced and sent on 
25 November.
Acasta, like many other insurance companies, issues its policy documentation by post. Mr 
and Mrs C have questioned whether their policy documents were ever sent, but the way this 
is done is generally reliable and I dont think its unreasonable of Acasta to send its 
documents in this way.
On balance, I think its likely that Acasta did send the documents to Mr and Mrs C around the 
25 November and I dont think its fair for me to hold Acasta responsible for them not 
arriving.
In the copy of the policy documents I have, I can see there are references to the 60-day limit:
The Deposit Value Protection is for 60 days only, from and including the date of 
payment of the deposit or until completion of the contract whichever is the earliest. 
The period may be extended, provided that a written request is always made by the 
Customer to [Acasta] BEFORE the 60 day period expires.
And
Your deposit is covered for 60 days from the date of payment of the deposit or until 
the completion of the contract due to the insolvency of the developer/contractor 
during this period.
I think its clear from the policy documents that the cover lasts for 60 days, so I cant say 
Acasta has acted unreasonably in rejecting Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr and Mrs C being told by Ss salesperson that work 
wouldnt be started for a couple of months due to supply problems in the industry. 
In this case, if S had entered administration during the first 60 days of the policy, then Acasta 
would have responded and dealt with a claim. So I cant say that Mr and Mrs C havent had 
the benefit of cover under the policy.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs C, their claim fell outside the 60-day period and the policy had 
already expired, leading to a substantial loss for them. But I cant reasonably say thats the 
fault of Acasta. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman