DRN-2477254
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He wasnt happy that it 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
Although another company has been involved in this complaint Advantage are responsible 
for it, so Ive primarily referred to it in this decision.
What happened
Mr S took out his motor insurance policy with Advantage but it cancelled his policy. It said 
that he had entered different data in order to get a more competitive quote. When Mr S 
complained about this it didnt change its position, so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and upheld his complaint. He thought Mr S had 
undertook a number of enquiries about his insurance that were genuine and in line with his 
general occupation and mileage use. Advantage accepted this and agreed to provide Mr S 
with a letter explaining that it had cancelled his policy in error, to pay him £75 in 
compensation for its error and to refund a £20 admin fee. However, it didnt agree that it 
should price match the policy Mr S had to take on after it cancelled his policy. This was 
because Mr S had provided a different occupation for the new policy and it thought this 
would impact the cost of the premium.
As Advantage only partly agreed the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this complaint as it is accepted 
by both sides that Advantage made a mistake in cancelling the policy. It has agreed to 
provide a letter explaining that the policy was cancelled in error and to pay Mr S 
compensation. So, the only thing left to consider is whether Advantage should pay the 
additional premium and I think it should. Ill explain why.
While I accept that there is a variance in the occupation details Mr S provided and so I can 
understand Advantages position. But, put simply, Mr S is only paying a higher premium 
because of Advantages error  which it acknowledges  and so the fair and reasonable 
thing to do is for Advantage to pay the difference and price match the subsequent policy 
Mr S had to take out. 
So, I would expect Advantage to pay the difference in premium that Mr S paid for his new 
policy compared to his old policy. It should do this alongside providing a letter of explanation 
and the compensation it has already agreed to. However, this is subject to Mr S seeing if his 
insurer for the second policy gives any refund in premium. I say this as Mr S may get a 
refund from his new insurer now that Advantage has provided a letter of explanation about 
the incorrect cancellation. And it wouldnt be fair for Mr S to be refunded twice.
 My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to;
 provide a letter explaining it cancelled his policy in error, if it hasnt already;
 refund the additional premium Mr S had to pay for his new insurance subject 
to any refund his present insurer may give; 
 pay Mr S £75 compensation; and 
 refund the £20 admin fee that Mr S incurred when it incorrectly cancelled his 
policy.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman