DRN-2740495
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lookers Motor Group Limited mis-sold him a personal contract 
plan (PCP) for a new car.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr D attended a dealership and discussed the purchase of a new car. 
He says that he was advised by the salesperson to take out a PCP, even though he told 
them he was unlikely to keep the car for the full period of an agreement. He also says he 
was pushed to put down a disproportionately large deposit and buy extra products.
Subsequently, Mr D entered into a three-year PCP agreement for a new car. He returned 
the car after 18-months and says he had to pay £2,000 to settle the outstanding balance 
on the agreement.
Mr D says that there were no affordability, or eligibility checks undertaken as there should 
have been for an advised sale of a financial product. And that he subsequently suffered a 
financial loss when returning the car early, due to the amount of deposit hed paid.
Mr D says he complained to Lookers in 2019 but didnt receive a response for 12 months 
and so complained, for a second time, in January 2020. Lookers didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Lookers said that, unfortunately, it couldnt find any trace of an earlier complaint and, as Mr 
D wasnt able to provide a copy of what he had originally sent, it wasnt able to investigate 
that further.
Lookers said that, in regard to the size of the deposit made by Mr D, there was no 
incentive for the salesperson to seek a larger amount. The dealership would have received 
the cost of the car via the credit agreement and the deposit, so there was no impact on it if 
the deposit was larger or smaller. A deposit, however, did have an impact on the amount of 
credit provided, so a larger deposit meant less credit was required, resulting in less interest 
accruing and lower monthly payments. The size of the deposit had been at Mr Ds 
discretion. 
Lookers said, looking at the paperwork, there had been around ten days between the 
ordering of the car and the signing of the PCP. It said this was sufficient time for Mr D to 
have considered whether he was happy with the size of his deposit. It also said it hadnt 
seen any evidence that the larger deposit had been of financial detriment to Mr D when 
hed returned the car.
Lookers said this was a non-advised sale. Mr D had signed the document headed Your 
Finance Options, confirming his eligibility for the relevant financial products and that he 
had chosen the PCP. Mr D had also initialled the document to confirm he had received an 
explanation of the vehicle finance and had time to review and digest the relevant 
information. He had signed the PCP showing he agreed to be bound by its terms and 
conditions.
The eligibility checks for the finance had been carried out and Lookers said Mr D had met 
the lending criteria of the credit provider. It wasnt able to access the proposal portal, as 
the finance hadnt been provided by Lookers, and so it wasnt able to say what information 
had been collated for the credit provider by the dealership in order for it to carry out their 
assessment and underwriting of the finance proposals. It said there wasnt any evidence 
the PCP had been mis-sold.
In regard to the added extras, Lookers said Mr D had viewed a number of product 
presentations while at the dealership and had also been presented with the information in 
writing. He had signed a Statement of Demand and Needs, which confirmed he had been 
provided with this information and had purchased the products a week later.
Mr D disagreed with Lookers and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr Ds concerns about the 
credit worthiness checks should be raised with the lender as it was them who had made 
the decision to lend.
Our investigator said it would now be difficult to establish what had been said by the 
parties at the point of sale. However, looking at the circumstances, he thought there had 
been time between Mr D ordering the car, and signing the PCP, for him to be sure he was 
happy with the size of the deposit he was paying.
Looking at the size of the deposit paid by Mr D, our investigator said he couldnt see how a 
larger deposit would have financially disadvantaged him when hed returned the car early. 
A larger deposit would have meant a smaller balance to pay to settle the agreement.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view, as he said he hadnt addressed the main part 
of his complaint which was this had been an advised sale, as the PCP had been 
recommended to him by the dealership. Mr D said Lookers couldnt absolve itself of its 
responsibilities to have undertaken sufficient checks to ensure that the financial agreement 
met his needs and it should have produced evidence of financial and affordability checks. 
He also disputed that he hadnt suffered a financial loss by paying the larger deposit and 
returning the car early.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
In Mr Ds original complaint to Lookers he had raised his disappointment that it hadnt 
responded to a complaint he made to it 12 months before. This wasnt something I could 
consider as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so I wasnt going to address that 
in my decision. 
Mr D said that Lookers had made an advised sale of the PCP to him, but Lookers 
disagreed with that view. The term advised sale means that the customer would have 
been given a recommendation tailored to their needs, and an explanation why the product 
or provider met the customers demands and needs. A non-advised sale means that no 
personal recommendation was made and the customer was left to decide how they wished 
to proceed.
Here, I didnt know what was said when Mr D visited the car showroom, so I thought it was 
reasonable that I looked at the documentation that has been provided.
Id seen that Mr D had ordered a new car in February 2017 and, following that order, he had signed not only the PCP agreement itself but also a document headed Your Finance 
Options, and a Statement of Demand and Needs, in respect of the additional products 
that he had purchased.
Looking at the document, Your Finance Options, I had seen this was signed by Mr D at 
the same time he had signed the PCP, which was around 12 days after the car had been 
ordered. At the top of this document it set out a short number of questions that Mr D had 
been asked, such as whether he intended to change the car regularly. It then set out three 
options that Mr D could use to fund the purchase of the car, namely a hire 
purchase/conditional sale, a PCP or a lease agreement. And under each of the financial 
products there was a brief description of how the product works.
There was then a section titled Your Selected Vehicle Finance Product, where it stated, I 
confirm I have had the funding options displayed above explained to me and I have chosen 
to fund my vehicle using:.... There had then been added Personal Contract Purchase 
over 36 months, and a reason given for this selection. The reason here said, I want a 
PCP because I want to take advantage of a Guaranteed Future Value.
Id seen Mr D also signed a pre-agreement document that confirmed he had received an 
explanation of the financial agreement he would be signing and had had time to digest it. 
This document also confirmed Mr D had given Lookers permission to propose his finance 
to a panel of lenders.
Looking through this documentation I didnt think I could reasonably say this was an 
advised sale. Mr D had signed a document to say he had chosen to take out the PCP from 
three suggested financial products, and a reason had been given for his choice. I didnt 
have sufficient evidence to say that Lookers recommended the PCP agreement rather than 
went through the various credit options that were available to him to finance the car.
As this hadnt been an advised sale then any issues Mr D may have had regarding the 
affordability/eligibility for the product would need to be raised with the credit provider. 
Lookers wasnt able to provide the information that was forwarded to the credit provider, 
and considered by them, as to whether he was suitable for the proposed credit agreement.
Mr D had also said that the PCP wasnt necessarily the right product for him, as he 
intended to return the car before the end of the agreement. Again, I didnt know what was 
said by the parties at the time Mr D had agreed to acquire a new car. But I thought the 
agreement set out its terms and conditions about the length of the agreement, the monthly 
payments and the consequences of terminating early. I thought it was reasonable to have 
expected Mr D to have read the agreement, and other paperwork, before he had signed it. 
I didnt have any evidence that the PCP was misrepresented to Mr D by the dealership, 
such as there wouldnt be financial consequences if he returned the car before the 
agreement had come to an end. I thought it was fair to say Mr D had been given all the 
information he required to make an informed decision as to whether this was the right 
product for him. 
Id seen that Mr D felt strongly that the size of the deposit had been a financial 
disadvantage to him, but I was unclear why he held this opinion. The larger the deposit the 
less the amount of credit that was required to be borrowed, meaning there was less 
interest applied overall and lower monthly payments.
I didnt know the circumstances in which the car had been returned, but Mr D said he was required to pay £2,000 to settle the balance of the agreement. Under a PCP, if the 
agreement is voluntary terminated, then nothing further needs to be paid if half of the total 
finance amount has been repaid. However, if you havent reached that point, then you will 
owe the difference between what has been paid and the 50% figure. As Mr D returned the 
car after 18months, unless he had made overpayments under the agreement, he wouldnt 
have reached that 50% figure.
Mr D said the car cost around £33,000. Although I accepted that the deposit could have 
been smaller, I didnt think I could fairly say that it was a substantial deposit being just over 
20% of the cost of the car. I didnt know why Mr D chose to pay this amount, but it would 
have reduced the cars monthly costs. I thought it was fair to say that the amount of the 
deposit was at Mr Ds discretion. If he had been unhappy at the amount he had put down, 
he had had time between ordering the car, and the signing of the finance agreement, to 
change his mind.
So, looking at the evidence, I was satisfied that Mr D had been provided with sufficient 
information to make an informed decision as to whether the PCP was suitable and that he 
had  selected that product. I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint.
Mr D has disagreed with my provisional view as he says this was an advised sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D hasnt asked me to look again at any particular parts of my provisional view, but I 
have gone carefully through the evidence that was provided.
Where evidence is contradictory or missing, as it was here with Mr D saying this had been 
an advised sale and Lookers disagreeing with that, then I have to decide what I think is the 
most likely thing to have happened. When making that decision, I think it was fair for me to 
consider the paperwork that was prepared over Mr D acquiring the car via a PCP as I 
didnt know what had been said between the parties.
Looking again at that paperwork, I havent changed my view that this wasnt an advised 
sale and that Mr D was provided with enough information for him to make an informed 
decision about taking out the PCP agreement.
I also still think the size of the deposit had been for Mr D to decide and that he had chosen 
to put this amount down. 
So, as set out above and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr D, Im 
not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman