DRN-4141317
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was subject to a margin call on his account because IG Index 
Limiteds platform was unresponsive and he was prevented from closing his positions before 
he fell below the required margin. 
What happened
Mr W traded through IGs web-based platform and had opened positions in Baidu and 
Alibaba. On 27 July 2021 at 8.57.16 am he logged onto the platform prior to the pre-market 
opening at 9.00 am and sought to open his chart for Baidu. Mr W has said he was unable to 
get onto the platform as the Baidu chart wouldnt open and his positions were closed out due 
to margin breach at 9.00.35am.
He complained to IG but it didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response to the complaint it 
said that Mr Ws positions had been closed correctly based on the status of his account, 
which it said meant that the equity in his account not only didnt cover the margin 
requirement but was negative. It set out the relevant provisions from the customer 
agreement in support of the action it had taken.
IG said that in terms of Mr W being unable to access the platform he had accepted in the 
telephone conversation with its IT department following the margin close out that this was 
due to the number of annotations he had on the Baidu chart he was trying to open, which 
delayed the chart opening.
IG also said in any event it was unlikely that Mr W would have closed his Baidu positions in 
the first seconds of the market opening if he had been able to access the platform. It said 
those positions were still in profit when they were closed as a result of the margin call. It said 
that it thought that Mr W would have attempted to close the Alibaba positions first, which 
were closed out at a loss. 
IG also said that Mr W could have closed his positions in Baidu without loading the chart, 
from the open positions window and that he could have added additional funds to his 
account before the market opened given he said he was aware he was at 79% of margin at 
1.00 am on 27 July 2021. 
IG offered a goodwill payment of £614 which was a repeat of an offer previously made but 
rejected by him. This figure was calculated based on the difference in equity the two times 
this was recorded on IGs system the morning of 27 July 2021  this being - £524.64 at 
9.00.03 am and - £1,138.64 at 9.00.35 am.
Mr W didnt accept the offer and it has now been withdrawn. He referred his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators provided an opinion in which he said he didnt think IG had done 
anything wrong. Mr W didnt agree with the investigator and it was referred to me for review. 
I also didnt think the complaint should be upheld and issued a provisional decision 
explaining why, the findings from which are set out below.
I think it is important to make clear that my role is to make a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the information provided by the parties taking into account relevant; law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; good industry 
practice where appropriate. My findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely, than not  and it is for me to decide how much weight to give any piece of 
evidence.
I can understand Mr W being frustrated having logged onto IGs platform in preparation for 
the pre-market opening to find he couldnt access the platform because the Baidu chart 
wouldnt load - with his positions then being closed due to his account falling below the 
margin required. However, having considered all the information and arguments provided by 
the parties carefully, I am not persuaded that IG did something wrong that caused the losses 
that Mr W suffered.
I accept that the Baidu chart that Mr W used on the platform didnt load when he went on to 
IGs website at 8.57.06 am on 27 July 2021. I acknowledge that the only evidence of this is 
his statement to that effect but he called IG shortly afterwards about the issue and there is 
evidence of this issue arising subsequently, including video clips Mr W has made from 
different days where the issue with the chart not loading can be seen. I also accept what Mr 
W has said about the issue persisting until 2 September 2021.
I also accept what Mr W has said about the problem with the Baidu chart loading wasnt an 
issue he had before 27 July 2021. I acknowledge he referred to it having happened the 
previous day when he spoke to IGs IT department about the issue for the second time on 27 
July 2021. I think it is more likely than not this was an error on his part, as he has said. I 
think if he had experienced a problem the day before it is more likely than not he would have 
spoken to IG about this at the time, and he didnt. So, I dont think Mr W was aware there 
might be an issue with the chart loading on 27 July 2021 such that he could have avoided 
being unable to access the platform that morning.
I also accept what Mr W has said about how he had set matters up when he accessed the 
platform  namely that this was set up so that the Baidu chart opened in full screen mode. In 
other words I accept that on trying to access the platform he couldnt see the close position 
button and was unable to minimise the chart or do anything else immediately on the platform 
to get access to the close positions button for Baidu.
However, having said all that, there is no persuasive evidence that Mr Ws inability to access 
the platform was because of something that IG did wrong. 
I have noted Mr Ws suggestion he was targeted. He has provided no explanation as to why 
IG would have singled him out and there is no evidence to support it did so, which would be 
a serious breach of its regulatory obligations.
There has been a reasonable amount of discussion about the cause of the problem being 
the number of annotations Mr W had placed on the Baidu chart, estimated at over 400. 
But although Mr W initially agreed with IG that this might be the cause he has since said he 
had the same number of annotations before the 27 July 2021 and since 2 September 2021 
without any problem  accessing the Baidu chart. He has also provided video evidence of the 
issue with the Baidu chart not loading after 27 July 2021 as well as a video showing it 
loading as expected in October 2021 - with the same number of annotations. It is his case 
that this shows that the issue was with IGs website not his system or the number of 
annotations on the chart.
However, whilst the evidence doesnt support a finding that the annotations  at least by 
themselves - explain why he had a problem loading the Baidu chart for a period of two months, it also doesnt establish in my view that the cause of the problem wasnt at Mr Ws 
end. The fact that only Mr W appears to have been affected by this issue is suggestive of the 
problem being at his end, as it seems unlikely to me that if it was at IGs end there would not 
have been other customers complaining.
In saying that I note Mr Ws reference to IG possibly reducing the bandwidth of the website. 
This, in combination with the number of annotations, could explain why the Baidu chart took 
so long to load for him on 27 July 2021. However, if it had reduced the bandwidth I think it is 
unlikely no one else would have been affected over the two months there appears to have 
been an issue, albeit not in the same way as Mr W. In the circumstances I think the fact that 
this problem only affected Mr W does not support a finding that it was the result of something 
that IG did in relation to its website.
This isnt the only possible explanation why the Baidu chart took so long to load for Mr W. 
For example Mr Ws internet service provider (ISP) could have reduced his internet speed. I 
acknowledge he did a speed test on 27 July 2021 after the problem had arisen which was 
considered by IG to be adequate. But there is no evidence of what the speed was 
previously, so it is possible that the speed was higher beforehand such that there was no 
previous issue with the chart loading despite the annotations. 
I have provided this as an example not because I am saying this is necessarily what 
happened but to make the point that there is more than one possible reason why he was 
unable to open the Baidu chart and there isnt any persuasive evidence that has been 
provided in this complaint that it was the result of something that IG did.
I note Mr Ws suggestion that the investigator should have asked for independent verification 
as to the cause of the failure to the Baidu chart loading, using his videos of the problem. 
Putting on one side that I think it is very unlikely any expert would be willing to provide an 
opinion based on his video evidence, it is for the parties to provide the evidence that is 
relevant and they want us to consider. It was open to Mr W to provide his own expert 
evidence if he thought such evidence was relevant. He has not done so and it isnt for me to 
obtain such evidence to prove or disprove one parties version of events.
Furthermore, even if I had been satisfied that the cause of the Baidu chart not loading was 
due to some change made to the website by IG this doesnt mean it did something wrong. It 
seems to me that it is entitled to make changes to the operation of its website and doesnt 
guarantee it will always be possible to make trades through its platform.
It offers alternative ways for trades to be made, such as by telephone. Mr W has said the 
Baidu chart normally opens in a matter of seconds  as seen in the October 2021 video he 
provided. He would therefore have known very soon after going onto the website at 8.57.16 
am that the chart wasnt opening as normal. 
He also knew before 9.00.00 am that the Hong Kong HS50 Index had fallen sharply and, on 
his case, he had decided to close his positions as soon as the pre-market opened. He has 
said that he naturally assumed that it wouldnt take more than another few seconds to load 
the chart. But this had never happened before over several years of Mr W using the Baidu 
chart, so there was no reasonable basis for him naturally thinking the problem would simply 
resolve.  
Given the importance of him being able to close his positions as soon as the pre-market 
opened and that he had never previously had a problem with the chart loading, I dont accept 
that it was reasonable for him to simply chance it that the issue with the chart would resolve 
just in time for him to close his positions. Mr W has said he didnt have time to call the IG premium desk as he expected the chart to 
load in the next few seconds - which as I say I dont accept was a reasonable assumption  
and was establishing what had caused the decline in the China markets overnight. But if he 
had already decided to close his positions because of the drop in the Hong Kong HS50 
Index - as he says he had - finding out the reason for the fall had no bearing on what he 
intended to do, so cant reasonably have been a basis for not telephoning.
Mr W also appears to give an alternative explanation for why he didnt call IG  namely that 
he didnt call because his preference wasnt to rely on someone else to close his positions. 
Whilst that may have been a reasonable decision when there was no issue with him 
accessing the platform, it wasnt when he knew he didnt have access. It is because it was 
so important for him to close his positions as soon as the market opened that he should 
have called IG when he was unable to access the platform as he normally could.
In the circumstances it is reasonable to have expected Mr W to telephone IG when it was 
apparent he wasnt able to access the platform. There is no way of knowing for certain if he 
would have avoided margin close out if he had called, but there is equally no way of knowing 
if he would have avoided it if he had been able to access the closed positions button on the 
platform. 
However, I am mindful that his account was already negative at 9.00.03 am so there was at 
most a couple of seconds for him to avoid margin close out. On balance I am not satisfied it 
is more likely than not he would have avoided margin close out either way given the time 
available. So, even if he had access to the closed positions button I am not satisfied he 
would have avoided the losses he suffered as a result of being closed out on margin.
Furthermore, IG has said that when the market opened Baidu was still positive and remained 
so until margin close out. I think IGs argument that Mr W wouldnt have closed his Baidu 
positions immediately on the pre-market opening in any event is a reasonable one in the 
circumstances. 
One final point I would make is that the only evidence Mr W would have sought to close his 
positions at 9.00.00 am if he had access to the close positions button on the platform is his 
statement to this effect. I dont expect him to be able to provide supporting evidence of an 
intention. But I would have expected him to inform IG of this when he discussed the issue 
with the chart loading following being closed out on margin. 
However, in the calls he made on 27 July 2021 and 28 July 2021, although specifically 
talking about the issue with the Baidu chart not loading, he made no mention of this 
preventing him from closing his positions. Instead he refers to not being able to see what 
was going on. The fact he refers to not being able to see what was happening rather than to 
not being able to close his positions doesnt in my view support what he has said about 
having already decided to close his positions as soon as the market opened at 9.00 am.
Furthermore, IG has said that when the market opened Baidu was still positive and remained 
so until margin close out. I think its argument that Mr W wouldnt have closed his positions 
immediately on the pre-market opening in any event is a reasonable one in the 
circumstances.
For the various reasons I have explained above I am not satisfied that IG did anything wrong 
or are responsible for the losses Mr W suffered as a result of his positions being closed 
following margin breach.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing any more information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision. IG had nothing further to add. Mr W asked for some further time to provide a response and I agreed to him having some additional time. 
However, the time for his response has passed and he has provided no further information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information there is no basis for me changing the 
findings set out in my provisional decision, which form part of my findings in this final 
decision. In short, the losses Mr Ws suffered resulting from his positions being closed for 
margin breach werent the result of anything that IG did wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman