DRN-2759216
The complaint
Mr H complains that a used car Moneybarn No. 1 Limited supplied under a conditional sale 
agreement (CSA) is of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr H was assisted in bringing this complaint by a relative, but Ill refer to anything thats been 
said on his behalf as if Mr H said it himself, to keep things simple.   
What happened
Mr H took out this CSA at the end of 29 January 2019. He got the car a few days later and 
an engine management light (EML) came on a few days after that. Mr H contacted the 
dealer, who told him to take the car to a third party garage (that Ill refer to as B), that the 
dealer used for repairs. B told Mr H that the problem was a faulty sensor and this had been 
replaced but the EML illuminated again on the way home. Mr H tried to contact the supplying 
dealer but got no response and he took the car to a local garage (that Ill call E) where it was 
inspected. 
E says the car had covered nearly 93,000 miles on 28 March 2019, according to the 
odometer. E found a knocking sound could be heard from the engine, diagnostic checks 
showed a running fault when the car was idling, NOx and O2 sensors were faulty, the 
exhaust leaked, a rear brake was missing a spring and there was a combustion misfire on 
several cylinders. Mr H was told that repairs would cost about £2,000 and this wasnt 
covered under a warranty he got with the car. He tried to contact the supplying dealer again 
but hed gone out of business. 
Mr H complained to the broker that arranged the finance and an independent expert was 
engaged to inspect the car, in June 2019. The mileage recorded at the inspection was just 
over 97,300. The expert considered the MOT history didnt reveal any major issues. He 
found whilst the EML was on the engine oil pressure light was not illuminated and the car 
didnt show any evidence of reduced performance  although engine speed at idle was 
uneven, indicative of a slight misfire. He noted that E found one cylinder was low on 
compression, the exhaust system was leaking and the car had underlying issues with 
emissions.
The expert didnt see the oil pressure warning light that Mr H said illuminates intermittently 
but he thought it prudent for the car to have an oil engine flush and filters replaced - as a 
preventative measure. He considered exhaust and emissions issues could have occurred at 
any time - due to age-related general wear and tear. Given the time that had elapsed since 
supply, the expert didnt think there was enough evidence to show that these issues were 
present at the outset - or indicate that the car was unfit for purpose at that stage. He 
concluded that it was probably in a satisfactory condition at the point of supply.
Moneybarn rejected Mr Hs complaint. It didnt accept the car was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the outset - given the experts conclusions and the fact Mr H was able to travel about 8,300 
miles by the date of the inspection. Moneybarn said any issues present were likely to have 
developed over that time so it shouldnt be held responsible or have to do anything further.  
The car broke down in July 2019. E told Mr H that the crankshaft had failed, a knocking 
sound heard in March was probably an early sign of this issue, the car couldnt be driven and 
it was uneconomic to repair. Mr H contacted Moneybarn who indicated that the expert would 
be informed, to see if this changed his view but didnt provide anything further.
Mr H was unhappy that Moneybarn didnt accept the car was faulty and allow him to reject it. 
He was unable to drive the car and struggled to maintain his monthly finance payments. 
Moneybarn agreed to accept reduced payments for a time but Mr H thinks it was wrong to 
continue to chase him for payment. He wants Moneybarn to take the car back and provide a 
refund and compensation.  
One of our investigators considered the evidence and recommended the complaint should 
be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the mileage recorded on the sale invoice of 89,000 miles is probably wrong - as the 
MOT certificate some three months earlier records a higher mileage - so Mr H wasnt 
able to drive the car as far as Moneybarn suggests;
Mr H reported the EML not long after collection and the same EML was still 
illuminated when the expert inspected the car about four months later;
E checked the car just a month after supply and identified several faults;
the mechanic considered these were significant, unlikely to be wear and tear related 
on a car of this age and mileage and probably present when Mr H got the car - in 
light of the relatively short time he had it and the distance travelled;
the car broke down in July 2019  within six months of supply  due to a problem 
with the crankshaft
E considers the knocking sound heard in March was probably related to the 
crankshaft failure, suggesting the car had a much bigger problem even at that stage. 
On balance, she doesnt think Moneybarn has done enough to show that these faults werent 
present at the point of supply. She thinks it is more likely than not the car had significant 
faults at the outset. She recommended Moneybarn should:- 
end the CSA and arrange to have the car collected at no cost to Mr H;
refund any payments Mr H made from July 2019 when he had no use of the car; 
refund the cost of diagnostic tests incurred by Mr H; 
pay interest at 8% simple a year on any refund from the date each payment was 
made to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file; and 
pay Mr H £150 for the trouble and upset caused
Moneybarn didnt respond at first and then, after requesting some further information, it 
agreed with the outcome the investigator proposed, in March 2021. Mr H feels he should 
receive more compensation for everything thats happened but he accepted the 
investigators recommendations to see an end to the matter last month. Moneybarn didnt contact Mr H to arrange to take the car back and action the agreed 
resolution for several weeks so he asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is here- I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. This means I consider whats most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I make my decision 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable but I must have regard to relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) good industry practice at the relevant time. Im satisfied the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here.
Moneybarn supplied this car under a CSA. Under the CRA, theres an implied term in a 
contract to supply goods that they will be of satisfactory quality. This means the goods need 
to meet the standard a reasonable person would expect. And the quality of the goods 
includes their general state and condition as well as fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. In the case of a used car, its 
generally reasonable to take into account the age, price and mileage at the point of supply. 
This car was over nine years old and cost about £5,000 when Mr H got it. Its unclear what 
the exact mileage was at that point. The CSA and the sale invoice both record the car had 
89,000 miles on the clock but thats not consistent with the mileage recorded at an MOT 
some three months before, of 89,842. I dont think theres necessarily anything suspect 
about that - its possible the dealer simply rounded down the mileage on the odometer 
when he recorded it in the sale paperwork. But, the accuracy (or otherwise) of this figure is 
important here because it impacts on the calculation of how far Mr H was able to drive the 
car after supply.  
Like our investigator, I consider the mileage recorded at the MOT is more likely to be 
accurate. I also think the cars likely to have been driven between the MOT in October 2018 
and the sale in February 2019. I cant be certain how far that might have been but I think Mr 
H would probably have noticed if the mileage recorded in the sale paperwork was 
significantly lower than the clock in the car showed. On balance, I find it unlikely that the car 
had significantly more than 90,000 miles on the clock when Mr H got it. 
I think its fair to say a reasonable person wouldnt expect a car like this to meet the same 
level of quality as a brand new vehicle. Undoubtedly some parts would be worn and need to 
be repaired or replaced sooner or later - which is reflected in the lower price paid for a used 
car. But, that doesnt mean an older car with higher mileage can be supplied without any 
regard for quality  it still has to meet the level of quality that a fair minded person would 
consider satisfactory for the price, age and mileage. 
Looking at the experts report, I dont think theres any dispute that the car had faults when 
he inspected in June 2019. I accept the expert didnt think there was enough evidence to 
conclude that these were present when Mr H got the car but I dont think thats right, on the 
balance of probability. I say this because Im satisfied that an EML came on just days after 
Mr H collected the car. I think the dealer acknowledged that was unacceptable and thats 
why he arranged for a repair at no cost to Mr H. It looks however as if that repair didnt work 
 Mr H says the EML light came on again on his way home the same day. In the usual course of events I think a reasonable person would expect the dealer to sort this 
out - and Mr H says he tried to contact the dealer again but there was no response. The 
dealer is no longer trading so we havent been able to get any information from him about 
these events. But, Mr H has gone to some trouble to supply information from his phone - 
such as copies of text messages and call logs. Im satisfied these show several calls were 
made to the dealer and the third party garage at the relevant time. I think thats consistent 
with the chain of events that Mr H describes. And I find it is more likely than not this car had 
an ongoing issue within days of supply that the dealer failed to resolve despite attempts at 
repair.
I appreciate Moneybarn may well say this issue may not have been significant. And I accept 
an EML can mean all sorts of things from a relatively minor issue to a much more serious 
problem. But Im satisfied E saw the car the following month - by which time Mr H had 
probably driven it less than 3,000 miles. Ive seen paperwork from E which identifies several 
issues including a leak from the exhaust. The mechanic that checked the car also told us he 
heard a knocking sound at that time. I cant be certain if that noise was related to the 
subsequent crankshaft failure a few months later. But, on balance and based on the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that this car had significant issues which required costly 
repairs in March 2019 and I think its more likely than not the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
Putting things right
Its reasonable that Moneybarn appears, ultimately, to have accepted the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality and agreed to put things right. Ive considered the outcome 
recommended by our investigator and I find this seems fair and reasonable overall. 
I say this because Im satisfied Mr H reported problems here early on, but the repairs 
arranged by the dealer didnt resolve things - and E told us it would be uneconomic to carry 
out further repairs. Like our investigator, I dont think its fair for Mr H to have to keep the car 
in this situation. I agree it is fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to take the car back and 
provide a refund. According to the CSA he didnt pay a deposit but Ive seen two invoices 
(for about £100 each) in respect of work, including diagnostic checks, that was undertaken 
by E in March and July 2019. Mr H wouldnt have had to pay for this if the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied so I think its fair that Moneybarn should provide a 
refund.   
Mr H told us he stopped driving the car in July 2019 on Es advice that the car was 
unroadworthy (and E has confirmed that). I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr H to pay 
for a car that he couldnt use so I agree Moneybarn should refund any payments Mr H made 
towards the finance from July 2019, after he stopped using the car  and remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file. 
I understand Mr H feels that he and his family should receive more compensation for the 
time theyve spent dealing with the faulty car and the complaint, in particular. But, as our 
investigator has explained, we dont normally require compensation to be paid for time spent 
bringing a complaint and, whilst I appreciate Mr H and his family have been upset and 
inconvenienced by what happened, Im unable to require Moneybarn to compensate anyone 
apart from Mr H - who is the customer and party to the CSA. 
Im satisfied that Mr H was put to some inconvenience having to take the car back and forth 
to more than one garage for investigations and repairs. I think it was probably also very 
frustrating and stressful to find this car had problems so soon after supply and then to have 
to drive it in limp mode at times. Taking everything into account I think it is fair for Moneybarn 
to pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and require Moneybarn No 
1 Limited to:- 
1. end the CSA and mark the agreement as settled;
2. arrange to collect the car from Mr H at no cost to him;
3. refund any monthly payments made from July 2019 onwards, after Mr H was unable 
to use the car;
4. refund the cost of diagnostic checks and other work undertaken by E (as referred to 
above); 
5. pay interest on the refunds above at 8% simple a year from date of payment to date 
of settlement
6. pay Mr H £150 compensation for inconvenience and distress caused 
7. remove any adverse information recorded about the CSA on Mr Hs credit file.
If Moneybarn does not pay the £150 compensation awarded for inconvenience and distress 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr H accepts my final decision then it must 
also pay 8% simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. 
If Moneybarn considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off and give him a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman