DRN-3419967
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) reported incorrect information about his account
to the Credit Reference Agencies which affected his ability to secure further borrowing.
What happened
In 2018, Mr C made a purchase using his TSB credit card. He wasnt happy with the quality
of the item he bought, but the retailer wouldnt give him a refund. So Mr C raised a dispute
through TSB. TSB recorded a query against his account with the Credit Reference Agencies
at the time. Mr C says that, in 2020, he noticed that the query was still being reported, so he
asked TSB to amend it. He says that TSB said it would update his credit file.
In January 2021, Mr C wanted to borrow funds to buy an additional property. He says his
application for borrowing was declined by a mainstream lender because of adverse
information on his credit file. He says his TSB credit card was the issue, as the query was
still being reported. As a result, he says he had to use a specialist lender and re-mortgage
his property, instead of taking a further advance. He says this meant he had to pay an early
redemption fee of around £2,800. He says that the interest rate on the new mortgage is
higher, and that hes paying a higher rate on the additional mortgage too. He says the
associated fees were also higher than they would have been if his credit file hadnt been
impacted.
When Mr C complained to TSB, it upheld the complaint in part. It accepted that the query
flag should have been removed from his credit file in 2018. It paid him £200 for distress and
inconvenience. But TSB didnt think that the flag on his credit file had affected his ability to
re-mortgage or impacted his mortgage interest rate. It said the flag simply identified the
account as being under review and wasnt adverse information.
Mr C wasnt happy with TSBs response and brought the complaint to this service. He told us 
that the query was still being reported on his credit file in late 2021, despite TSBs Final 
Response Letter saying that it had been removed in May 2021. TSB confirmed that the 
query was removed for the period from May 2018 to May 2021. But it said the query was 
reported again from June to September 2021. TSB said that this was corrected in October 
2021, and the account status has been recorded correctly from then onwards. It said it would 
arrange to update the account status for June to September 2021. But it didnt think any 
further compensation was due to Mr C as it said the reporting of the query marker for that 
four-month period didnt have any adverse effect on his credit file.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 March 2022. Both parties have received the provisional 
decision but neither party has made any further comments about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
I think it was reasonable for TSB to record a query marker on Mr Cs account while a 
transaction was being disputed. I think that was a fair reflection of the status of his account 
at that time. But TSB should have stopped reporting the query marker as soon as the 
dispute was resolved, in 2018. TSB accepts this, so Ill focus on the impact which the
incorrect reporting had.
Mr C says that the query marker meant he wasnt able to take a further advance on his
mortgage and instead had to re-mortgage and take an additional mortgage, both at higher
interest rates. The evidence Ive seen from Mr Cs broker confirms that his application was
declined due to adverse bureau information. This does suggest that the lenders decision
was based on information obtained from the Credit Reference Agencies. Mr Cs credit report
shows him to have an excellent rating and TSB said in its letter to him of 14 May 2021 that
it couldnt see any adverse information on his credit report. Mr C says that the query marker
was the only negative piece of information on his credit file, so it must be the reason his
application was declined.
Nationwide says that a query has no detrimental impact on a customers credit score. But,
even if the score isnt affected, I dont think it necessarily means that a query couldnt be
viewed negatively by lenders. Mr Cs account had been showing as under query for nearly
three years by the time he applied for the mortgage. His credit score remained high, but that
didnt mean the lender was happy to extend further credit. I think its possible that the length
of time the query was in place could have meant it was viewed differently from an ordinary
query, which Id normally expect to be in place for a few months at most.
But, from what Ive seen, I cant fairly conclude that the application was declined because of
the query. Thats because, when lenders are considering applications for borrowing, they
take many factors into account. There could be good reasons why someone with an
excellent credit score might be turned down for further lending. The information Ive seen
about the application isnt specific about the reason it was declined and there could have
been several reasons.
I note that the Decision in Principle document provided by Mr C invited him to discuss the
decision further. Mr Cs broker attributed the decision to the TSB account, but I havent seen
any evidence that the broker discussed the situation with the lender to find out for certain
what the issue was before pursuing other avenues.
Knowing that the query shouldnt have been on his credit file, I think it would have been
reasonable for Mr C to have pursued this with TSB at the time and either tried to get it 
corrected or asked TSB to explain it to the lender, before pursuing less favourable borrowing 
options. But I cant see that TSB had the opportunity to correct the situation until after Mr C 
had committed to the re-mortgage and additional mortgage. Mr C made his mortgage 
application in January 2021, but I understand that he didnt raise a complaint with TSB until
April 2021.
For the reasons above, Im not going to ask TSB to pay the early redemption fee which Mr C
incurred or the additional interest which he says hes having to pay on his new mortgage
arrangements.
But I think its right that TSB should compensate Mr C for the mistake it made by continuing
to report the query after the dispute had been resolved. TSB accepted in May 2021 that this
was a mistake and paid Mr C £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience heexperienced. I think that was fair at the time.
But, despite TSB confirming in its Final Response Letter that the query flag had been
removed, it has since come to light that it was reported again from June to September 2021.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that in June 2021, the query marker was removed from Mr
Cs credit file for the period from May 2018 to May 2021. I havent seen anything which
explains why it was reported again from June to September 2021 and TSB accepts it was a
mistake. It says it will correct this. But I think it needs to pay Mr C some further
compensation as well.
TSBs Final Response Letter said it would check again in a months time to ensure there was
no further incorrect reporting. I havent seen any evidence that this happened. If it had, TSB
would have noticed that the query was being reported again from June 2021. I can
understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr C to discover once again that an issue
from 2018 still hadnt been fully resolved by late 2021, despite TSB telling him it had been
sorted out. Once again, he had to contact TSB, at inconvenience to himself. In the
circumstances, I think TSB should pay Mr C a further £100.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should:
ask the Credit Reference Agencies to remove the query marker from Mr Cs credit file
for the period from June to September 2021;
ensure that no further query markers are reported; and
pay Mr C further compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman