DRN-3419843
The complaint
Ms B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined her claim for legal expenses under a 
home insurance policy. Reference to Amtrust includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in April 2021, Ms B made a claim against her legal expenses 
cover in relation to a claim for wrongful dismissal. Amtrust referred the matter to its panel 
solicitors.
In May 2021, Amtrusts panel solicitors told Ms B that, based on what shed provided, it 
was likely that she was an agency worker, not an employee, so her claim didnt come 
within the terms of the policy. Ms B complained about that.
Ms B thinks that her claim should be covered under the policy. She says that she was 
being paid via the PAYE system, had a pension, holiday and other benefits. Ms B didnt 
think that this limitation of cover was drawn to her attention at the point of sale. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Amtrust had 
treated Ms B unfairly. Ms B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that it wasnt 
clear that her claim wasnt covered when she took out the policy. 
The investigator considered what Ms B said but it didnt change his view. He said that 
Amtrust wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy and that it provided Ms B with 
sufficient information to enable her to make an informed choice.  
Ms B asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:  
What is covered
[]
Employment disputes
Advisers costs to pursue a legal action brought before an Employment Tribunal 
[] or court against an employer or ex-employer for breach as an employee of your 
contract of employment or legal rights under employment laws. By employee we 
mean an individual who has entered or works under (or, where the employment has 
ceased, worked under) a contract of employment.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Amtrust has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint because I dont think that Amtrust treated her unfairly. I 
say that because:
Its clear that Ms B feels strongly that she has a valid case arising out of the 
termination of her work. I appreciate thats very worrying for Ms B. But I need to 
decide whether Amtrust handled her legal expenses claim fairly and reasonably 
under the terms of the policy. Its not for me to assess the merits of the underlying 
claim. 
When Amtrust received Ms Bs claim, it passed it to its panel solicitors, which is what 
wed expect it to do. Amtrusts panel solicitor said that its likely that Ms B was an 
agency worker and not an employee of either entity involved in her work. So, her 
claim wasnt covered by the policy.
I dont think that Amtrust was at fault in relying on its panel solicitors advice. In my 
view, the policy makes it clear that in relation to employment disputes, the cover is 
limited to cases brought by an employee, that is, someone who has entered or 
worked under a contract of employment. Based on what Ive seen, Ms B didnt have 
a contract of employment with either of the organisations to which shes referred.    
So, I dont think that Amtrust treated Ms B unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the 
advice from its panel solicitors or in declining her claim. 
Amtrust is the underwriter of the legal expenses cover and wasnt responsible for the 
sale of the policy to Ms B. In the circumstances, its obliged to provide Ms B with 
sufficient information to enable her to make an informed choice. I think it did that as 
the policy terms set out whats covered in employment disputes. The policy contains 
a fairly common limitation in terms of its definition of an employee. I dont think that 
Amtrust needed to do any more to draw Ms Bs attention to it.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B but for the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Louise PoveyOmbudsman