DRN-1683633
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr R says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
I sent Mr R and MBNA a provisional decision on 20 February 2020, where I explained why 
I didnt think the policy had been mis-sold, but did think MBNA had to pay back the amount 
of commission and profit share it got that was above 50% of the PPI premium. In that 
decision, I said:
Mr R completed his credit card application by post, in his own time and without any pressure 
from a salesperson. The form had a section for PPI, which gave a brief overview of the 
policys purpose and cost. Then it had two tick boxes to choose from: one to buy PPI and 
one to turn it down. The option to take PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left 
blank, and Mr R signed the application to confirm his choices. So I think that MBNA made it 
clear Mr R didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it  though I can understand 
why he might not remember doing so after so long.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. It 
did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, Mr R chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like he was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr R told us and MBNA that he didnt have any savings or alternative cover, and that he only 
got the very limited statutory benefits through work. So the policy would have been useful for 
him in case he was off sick or lost his job. Mr R has now said he had life cover, but that 
covered different things to the PPI, so Im afraid its not relevant here. Hes also said he may 
have received sick pay for a period, though hes not said how much or for how long, and this 
is very different from what Mr R has said before. If Mr R can provide evidence of his sick pay 
entitlement in response to this provisional decision, then Im happy to reconsider this point. 
But based on what I have right now, it seems the PPI couldve been useful in his situation. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out. 
This means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But MBNA has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because MBNA didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
 To put that right, MBNA has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
19 March 2020. But neither Mr R nor MBNA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
What the business needs to do
MBNA should pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. MBNA should also pay back to Mr R any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
That means MBNA should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr R the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. MBNA should also pay Mr R 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr R.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman