DRN-3300750
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Ms M says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
Ms M took out her mortgage and PPI policy in 2002. She says that she was made to feel like 
the PPI was a requirement of the mortgage. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint, but they thought Santanders offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share that Ms M paid was fair in the circumstances. Ms M disagreed, as the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. Weve set out our general approach to PPI 
mis-sale complaints on our website.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, Ive decided not to uphold the     
mis-sale complaint. Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion below. And Ive decided 
Santander should have disclosed the commission it received - but that its offer to refund 
some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances.
Firstly, Ive considered if Santander gave Ms M a fair choice when she took out the PPI. I 
can see that the PPI was taken out at the same time as the mortgage, during a meeting. 
Unfortunately, Santander no longer has a copy of the separate PPI application form from the 
time of the sale. I dont think this is unreasonable considering the sale occurred around 20 
years ago now. 
Ms M says she doesnt recall the conversation exactly, but it was implied that the PPI was a 
requirement for the mortgage. Santander has said that PPI was not a requirement of Ms Ms 
mortgage. I have seen a copy of the printed mortgage application form that was signed by 
Ms M and this doesnt make reference to the PPI being a requirement of the mortgage. As I 
would have expected it to if it was. On balance, and with nothing to suggest otherwise, I 
think its more likely that Santander followed its normal procedure and made Ms M aware 
that she had a choice in taking out the policy.
I appreciate that Ms M has sent in a screen shot of a policy document that she says shows 
the PPI was a requirement of the mortgage. This does show that a policy that they called 
Protection Plan was a requirement of the mortgage. But it also says its a decreasing cover 
option with life insurance, which is a different product to the PPI. The PPI is called 
PaymentCare, so I dont think the document provided is in relation to PPI.
Santander advised Ms M to take out the policy, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And her circumstances at the time shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her, for example, Ms M was eligible for the cover. Ms M has said that she had 
sufficient means to cover her payments if she was unable to work. Her testimony has varied 
somewhat but shes said that she had around 6-12 months of sick pay available to her 
through her employer and she had savings she could have relied on. But the policy could 
have covered her monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months per claim if she was too 
ill to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that would have been in addition to 
her sick pay. As shed taken on a serious financial commitment, I think the benefits could still 
have been useful to her, in addition to the benefits she already had through her employer. 
And ultimately, I dont think this made the policy as a whole unsuitable for her.
In addition, there was nothing about Ms Ms employment or occupation that could have 
made it difficult for her to claim. I note Ms M mentioned she was the director of a business, 
but this occurred after the sale, so I dont think this affected the suitability of the sale. And 
she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that could affect her ability to 
claim.
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms M as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms M would have declined the cover 
had Santander done anything more.
So for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. And I dont think 
Santander needs to do anything to put things right.
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. Having done so Ive decided 
Santander should have disclosed the commission it received and that Santanders offer to 
refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint  so I make no award or this part of the 
complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Ms M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman