DRN-2778545
The complaint
Mr H complains about the behaviour of a number of customers in a Clydesdale Bank Plc  
trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) Lounge and the way it dealt with his concerns. Hes 
also unhappy with the customer service he received when paying money into his account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ill only provide a summary.
Mr H uses a Virgin Money Lounge.
He was unhappy with the behaviour of a number of customers who also use the 
Lounge regularly.
He complained to staff in the Lounge and it spoke to the individuals concerned.
Mr H remained unhappy and complained to Virgin Money about the individuals 
behaviour.
He also said hed received poor service when paying in money and believed a 
member of staff had made a racist comment about another customer.
Virgin Money explained it wasnt able to comment on the behaviour of the individuals 
as they were members of the public, not staff.
It apologised for the customer service issue and didnt feel it could comment on 
Mr Hs accusation of a racist comment but would review the issues internally.
Our investigator explained he couldnt consider the complaint about the behaviour of 
the other customers and didnt uphold the part about the other issues.
Mr H asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I only have the power to consider complaints about regulated activities and the 
behaviour of members of the public, even if they are on bank premises, is not a 
regulated activity.
Virgin Money seems to have taken Mr Hs concerns seriously and taken action 
directly with the individuals.
So, Im satisfied Virgin Money has acted reasonably in the circumstances, even if 
Mr H remains unhappy with the alleged behaviour of the third parties.
From the evidence Ive seen, one of Virgin Moneys representatives caused some 
confusion over the information required when Mr H was paying money into an 
account but this was resolved very quickly and only had a minor impact on Mr H.
I acknowledge Mr Hs view this happened on purpose due to a personal friendship 
between the representative and the people hed complained about. But hes not 
presented any evidence to support this and Ive not seen anything which persuades 
me this is more likely than not the case.
Virgin Money apologised for the confusion and Im satisfied this was an appropriate 
way to deal with this issue.
From Mr Hs testimony, the comment made by the representative that he considered 
inappropriate seems to me to have been a general comment about what some 
people were using the Lounge for.
I know Mr H thinks this might have been directed at a specific individual but theres 
nothing in his testimony that persuades me it was.
And even if it was, Im not satisfied the comment in question was inappropriate so 
this wouldnt change my mind.
Im not upholding this complaint or asking Virgin Money to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman