DRN-1619797
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as the Halifax) didn't update his address 
and sent out his new cards to his old home. He's also unhappy about the poor service he 
received when contacting the bank to address this.
What happened
Mr C updated his address using the Halifax' mobile banking app. But as he had two profiles 
on the bank's systems, they didn't both update properly and his new cards were sent to his 
old address. Fortunately a friend still lived at the old address and so there was no financial 
loss and no loss of his personal data. Mr C was also unhappy that one of his cards had the 
wrong personal details on it and the other's contactless payment functions hadn't worked.
On contacting the bank to sort this out, he received poor customer service that made him 
feel like he was lying about having changed his address. The Bank accepted that it was at 
fault for the failure of its systems to properly update Mr C's address. And it apologised for the 
poor service that it gave him. The bank cancelled both cards and sent Mr C new ones. It 
offered Mr C £350 compensation before he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr C's complaint and obtained evidence from the bank including 
recordings of calls he'd had with it. Mr C says he'd also had to visit the branch a few times 
and was unhappy with the effort to which he'd been put and the way he'd been treated. Our 
investigator agreed that the service provided by the bank was poor. Although she thought 
that the compensation the Halifax had already offered was the right amount for the trouble 
and upset which Mr C had been caused.
Mr C didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman's decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C will, I expect, be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator's assessment of 
this complaint and that £350 is a fair amount of compensation. I'll explain why.
The calculation of compensation awards isn't an exact science. What we endeavour to do 
here at the service is to assess the level of upset and inconvenience to which a customer 
has been put. We then compare this with other similar situations with which we've dealt and 
then generally look to make equivalent awards. The banks with whom we deal do a similar 
thing and here the Halifax has agreed to pay Mr C £350 - which I consider to be about the 
sum that we would have awarded had it not offered him anything in the first place.
There's no question here that the Halifax did something wrong and need to pay 
compensation to put things right. Mr C fortunately didn't suffer any financial loss and, unlike 
some customers whose complaints we consider, he didn't have the long term worry that his personal financial information had been compromised - that's because luckily his friend was 
still living at the property. That doesn't mean it wasn't a serious failure of the Halifax' 
systems. But the effect on Mr C wasn't as long term as it might otherwise have been.
What Mr C did sadly have to endure was the trouble of contacting the bank multiple times 
and going into the branch. He had poor customer service on a number of occasions and was 
understandably put out by this. I also hear that he's now felt the need to move his accounts 
elsewhere as a result, so is still suffering some inconvenience.
Putting things right
Taking all the above into account, and thinking about awards we've made in similar 
circumstances, I think that the £350 the Halifax has already offered Mr C is an appropriate 
amount of compensation for the trouble and upset he's experienced.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland Plc has already offered to pay Mr C £350 to settle his complaint. I consider 
this to be fair compensation. If it hasn't already, I require that Bank of Scotland Plc pay Mr C 
£350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman