DRN-4346016
The complaint
Miss G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
Miss Gs Tesco credit card application was approved in April 2017 with a credit limit of 
£2,600, despite her saying she was already using a large amount of credit elsewhere and 
her credit file showing missed payments. Miss G made a complaint to Tesco.
Tesco did not uphold Miss Gs complaint. They said when she applied, she confirmed her 
net monthly income was £1,170 and after her total outgoings were deducted (which included 
the repayment for the new account), she had disposable income available. Tesco said that 
while there had been a missing/late payment showing on her credit file, this also showed no 
arrears, no defaults, no County Court Judgements (CCJs), no Individual Voluntary 
Arrangements (IVAs). Miss G brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint. He said her income had been verified as £1,170 
per month, and Tesco calculated her total monthly outgoings to be £1,156 per month. This 
suggests shed have just £14 disposable income after all of her essential expenditure. While 
this simple calculation suggests the credit was technically affordable, he didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect consumers to spend such a small amount on non-essential 
expenditure over the period of a month. And he said other factors couldve easily made this 
unaffordable. He said Miss Gs total existing debt was very high and almost equivalent to her 
net annual income.
Tesco asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they had verified Miss 
Gs income as she had declared £1,500 net monthly income on her application, but this did 
not match with the gross income of £16,000 she also declared. They said they used a set 
30% assumption for mortgage/rent (which would be £351 a month), despite Miss G saying 
she was living with parents and paying £200 a month. So if they used what Miss G actually 
declared, then this would increase her net disposable income by £151 a month. 
Tesco said that using her net monthly income of £1,170 and deducting her outgoings such 
as £132.30 a month for existing credit card payments (5% of her existing balance), her loan 
monthly repayment of £303, her declared housing costs of £200 a month and living 
expenses (which they model at a set 30%) and the repayments for her new Tesco credit 
card which would be £130 a month (5% of the available credit), then she would still have a 
net disposable income of £53.70.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Miss G, Tesco needed to make proportionate 
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no 
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to 
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances. 
Ive looked at what checks Tesco said they did prior to accepting Miss Gs application. They 
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Miss G 
had gave them, such as being employed, earning a salary of £16,000 with a net income of 
£1,500, living with parents and they looked at her credit file. Tesco said that Miss Gs credit 
file showed she had external unsecured outstanding debt of £15,429 (£12,603 loan balances 
and £2,646 in revolving balances  such as credit card balances). 
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Miss G had no defaults, CCJs, IVAs, 
or bankruptcies, but it did show a late/missed payment within the last six months of her 
application to Tesco. Due to the income of £1,500 net per month being inconsistent with a 
gross salary of £16,000, then Tesco contacted Miss G to verify her actual net income. And 
this was £1,170. So this had been overstated by over 28%.
So Ive considered if the checks that Tesco carried out were proportionate to the level of 
credit that Miss G was given. And Im not persuaded that they were, and Ill explain why. In 
considering her existing accounts, Tescos data shows that Miss G was utilising 72% of her 
existing credit lines. So while the data showed that her revolving credit balances were 
£2,646, she would have had access to more than this prior to her Tesco application. I 
calculate her credit limits prior to the approval of the Tesco credit card to be £3,675. So 
when she was approved for the Tesco credit card, she would have a total revolving credit 
limit of £6,275. Based on her net annual income of £14,040 (£1,170 x 12), then her total 
credit limit would have been nearly 45% of her net annual income and this is without 
factoring in her outstanding loan balance. 
Miss Gs credit file also showed a late or missed payment within the last six months. While 
this could simply have been an oversight, and Miss G did have no arrears at the time of the 
application, this also could have indicated that she was having financial difficulty. And Miss 
G had nine accounts (although it is unknown what all nine of these were and when they were 
opened). Miss G had also overstated her income by 28%, so Im not persuaded that Tesco 
should have taken the other figures she provided them at face value (such as housing 
costs), when she had already given them very different figures to what she actually earned. 
So based on all of these factors, I would have expected Tesco to make further proportionate 
checks to ensure the credit limit was affordable and sustainable for her. 
Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, Tesco should have requested 
information from Miss G to discuss her finances, to ensure that she had enough disposable 
income to be able to afford and sustain repayments to the credit card. For example, they 
could have, as part of a proportionate check, asked Miss G to provide her bank statements 
for proof of outgoings, to see if she could afford the proposed credit limit. 
Our investigator previously asked Miss G for her bank statements around this time. But she 
didnt respond to him. I considered asking her for her bank statements again to see what 
these would have shown. But Ive also had to be aware that the lending decision was over 
six and a half years ago, and banks would not be required to keep the statements for this 
long. There is also information within the checks Tesco carried out which enables me to 
make a decision based on what Tesco should have known at the time they approved her 
application.
Ive considered what Tesco has said about Miss Gs outgoings and that she would have had 
a net disposable income even if they calculated 5% of her available balance as a repayment. The figures they provided to our investigator show for revolving balance payments (both 
existing and new payments) they calculated that her outgoings would be £262.30 a month. 
But based on the total credit limits of £6,275, 5% of this figure would be £313.75 a month, so 
£51.45 higher. So given that Tesco said there was £53.70 net disposable income per month 
for Miss G, this would technically give her a £2.25 a month net disposable income if I 
adjusted this for 5% of her total revolving credit limit available to her (eg credit cards). Even 
a slight increase in her living expenses could make this credit card unaffordable for her if it 
was to be paid in a sustainable manner, with her not making just minimum (or slightly over 
minimum) payments. 
In addition to this, Tesco have used Miss Gs figure of £200 a month for housing expenses. 
Although she was living with parents, given that she had overstated her net income by 28%, 
without further proportionate checks with Miss G (such as seeing her bank statements), Im 
persuaded that it would have been proportionate for Tesco to use their set modelling 
outgoings for this, which would have been £351 a month for housing costs. So although Im 
persuaded that the credit limit approved by Tesco was not a fair lending decision based on 
the previous paragraph, Im satisfied that by Tesco using the lower figure for Miss Gs 
housing costs, when she had already given inaccurate figures as part of her application, then 
instead of Tesco either verifying this as part of a proportionate check, or to use the higher 
modelling figures, this meant that the £2,600 credit limit for the credit card they approved for 
Miss G was not affordable and sustainable for her. So it follows Ill be asking Tesco to put 
things right for Miss G.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should 
do the following:
Tesco should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a debt 
recovery agent or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out below is carried out 
promptly;
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (not already
refunded) that have been applied;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss G along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding this account from
her credit file;
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an
affordable repayment plan with Miss G for the remaining amount. Once Miss G has cleared
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from
her credit file.
Im satisfied this is reasonable in the circumstances.
*If Tesco consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss G how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Miss G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should settle the complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman