DRN-3517602
The complaint
Mrs C complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs (HSBC) refusal to refund the money she has 
requested.
What happened
Mrs C is represented in her complaint but for ease of reading Ill refer to all submissions and 
responses as if they came from Mrs C directly.
Mrs Cs daughter instructed a firm of solicitors, Ill call the solicitors R. Mrs C gave her 
permission for her credit card to be used to make several payments to R to pay for this work. 
The credit card that was used was provided by HSBC. 
Mrs Cs daughter became dissatisfied with the quality of the work the solicitors provided and 
she withdrew her instructions. Mrs C complained to HSBC, she indicated that she wanted it 
to help her to get a refund of the money shed paid to R or refund her directly itself.
HSBC looked into Mrs Cs complaint. It considered two routes for getting Mrs Cs money 
back, chargeback and a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75).
Chargeback is a process which in certain circumstances allows customers to ask their bank 
for a transaction to be reversed if there is a problem with goods or services that they have 
paid for. There is no automatic right to a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice for 
a financial business to consider carrying out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this 
provided that there is fair chance the chargeback will be successful. There are certain 
deadlines that apply under the chargeback rules. HSBC indicates it could not instigate 
chargebacks in relation to the payments Mrs C had made to R as the deadlines had been 
missed.
In relation to Mrs Cs claim under Section 75 HSBC considered that she was not entitled to 
the protection of this provision. Therefore, it declined to take her claim any further.
Dissatisfied Mrs C complained to our service.
When the complaint came to us HSBC offered £50 for the level of service it provided whilst 
investigating Mrs Cs claim and complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Cs complaint. Our investigator concluded that 
HSBC had not provided the level of service Mrs C was entitled to expect. She also 
concluded that this was likely to have caused Mrs C to experience distress and 
inconvenience. On this basis our investigator recommended that HSBC ought to pay Mrs C 
£100 for distress and inconvenience.
HSBC accepted this recommendation, Mrs C did not. In summary, Mrs C indicated she 
rejected the recommendation for the following reasons. Our investigator concluded that Mrs 
Cs request for chargebacks may not have been out of time in relation to all of her 
transactions. However, on balance it made no difference that HSBC had not raised 
chargebacks for all of the transactions this was because the chargebacks would most likely 
have failed. But Mrs C did not agree this was the most likely outcome because she said 
there had been a first chargeback which had resulted in the money being refunded to her 
account. It followed therefore, in her opinion, that any subsequent chargeback attempts 
would likely have been successful too.
Moreover, Mrs C mentioned that our investigator had not talked directly to her about her 
dealings with R. Instead our investigator had only spoken to Mrs Cs representative. Mrs C 
suggested that our investigator had made a mistake in taking this approach. Specifically, Mrs 
C indicated that if our investigator had spoken to her then she would have been informed 
that:
1) Mrs C had to speak with [R] and inform them that the payments were made using her 
credit card, to purchase services from R, as a gift to.., her daughter, this meant that..[Mrs C] 
benefited from the services provided by [R] and a contract between them had been entered 
into following the principles of contract law  an offer was made, it was accepted, a 
consideration was paid.
2) law firms cannot take payments from any person/credit card, they have to check the name 
on the card and ask to speak with the cardholder, the cardholder has to confirm that s/he 
authorise payments to be taken from his/her credit card;
3) since there was a contract and direct relationship between [Mrs C] and [R] by failing to 
provide services to a reasonable standard and misrepresenting the service, [R] breached the 
contract it had with [Mrs C], it breached the Consumer Credit Act 2015 and there had been 
misrepresentation, under such circumstances, a valid D-C-S link was established.
Mrs C indicated that she wanted an ombudsman to take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
HSBC declined to carry out chargebacks because it said the request came too late. But 
looking at the date of the transactions, the date Mrs C contacted HSBC and the relevant 
rules, I am not satisfied that Mrs C had missed the relevant deadlines in relation to all the 
transactions although she had for some.
That said, a chargeback can only succeed if there is a valid chargeback reason. I cant see 
that under the rules there was a relevant chargeback reason. Moreover, chargeback isn't a 
mechanism for determining the underlying dispute between the merchant and the 
cardholder. But this was what Mrs C was asking HSBC to use the chargeback process for. 
Moreover, I also think R would have defended its position given what Ive seen about its 
stance. Based on what Ive seen it is unlikely an arbitration which would have been the next stage, would have been successful. In these circumstances, it follows I think it is likely that 
any chargeback would have failed.
I recognise that Mrs C indicates that a successful chargeback was made on her behalf. But 
HSBC suggests otherwise. From the information I have seen a third party had made a 
successful chargeback claim against R not Mrs C. It is not clear on what basis that claim 
succeeded. In any event, Mrs C made a number of points about the failings of R in her 
chargeback request indeed she describes the dispute as complex. Given the number of 
issues in dispute, it is possible that with the successful chargeback R conceded on one 
limited ground and not on all the other issues. But each chargeback request would have had 
to have to be looked at on its individual merits. Therefore, it does not follow that because a 
chargeback request by a third party may have been successful any chargebacks initiated on 
Mrs Cs behalf would, on balance, have succeeded too.
For all these reasons I dont agree I have any proper basis for saying HSBC acted 
inappropriately in relation to Mrs Cs chargeback requests.
Ill turn now to Mrs Cs point about the rights she suggests she has under Section 75 against 
HSBC. I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a 
financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might 
have under Section 75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Cs complaint, Ive taken 
Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mrs C pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. This service is an informal alternative to the courts.
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mrs C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier, she can also bring a like claim against HSBC provided 
certain conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there must be a very specific relationship in place that is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. For this to be in place Mrs C must be the debtor, 
HSBC the creditor and R the supplier. It follows therefore there needs to be a contractual 
relationship between Mrs C and R.
Ive seen contractual documents between Mrs Cs daughter and R. But Ive seen no 
contractual documents that demonstrate that Mrs C and R entered into a contractual 
relationship, which I might have expected to see in the circumstances if they were 
contracting parties.
Moreover, Mrs Cs complaint form makes it clear that only Mrs Cs daughter instructed R. 
She says in that document My daughter.instructed [R] to represent her on a contentious 
legal matter. 
I note Mrs C suggests our investigator should have talked directly to her about her 
relationship with R. But where a consumer asks us to deal with their representative that is 
what we do, rather than talk to them directly. In any event, I am satisfied that when Mrs C 
paid R she was merely discharging her daughters obligation to pay R she was not 
instructing R in her own right. I dont agree that because Mrs C discharged her daughters 
obligation to pay R this made her contracting party. Neither do I find that simply because Mrs 
C authorised R to take payment from her credit card for this purpose this made her a 
contracting party. Nor would Mrs C have become a party to the contract if she benefited from 
it.
Moreover, I am satisfied that if Rs fees had remained unpaid. R would have pursued Mrs 
Cs daughter for payment not Mrs C. Which underlines who are the contracting parties.
For all of these reasons, I cannot fairly or reasonably say that HSBC has acted incorrectly in 
relation to this part of Mrs Cs complaint.The thrust of Mrs Cs complaint is not about the level of customer service she received. 
However, HSBC accepts it did not always provide the level of customer of service she was 
entitled to whilst dealing with this matter. On this basis it has already accepted that it should 
pay Mrs C £100 for the distress and inconvenience this most likely caused her to 
experience.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mrs C £100 for distress and 
inconvenience as it has already accepted it must do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman