DRN-2422719
The complaint
Ms K complains, on behalf of the estate of Mr K, that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G) declined a claim on Mr Ks life assurance policy, cancelled the policy from the 
start and refunded the premiums.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr K applied for a 30-year fixed term life assurance policy with L&G via an 
independent financial advisor (IFA).
In his application Mr K disclosed a testosterone condition. And after reviewing some further 
information from Mr Ks GP in connection with this, L&G confirmed to the IFA it would offer 
Mr K the policy on standard rates. On 6 April 2017, the IFA emailed Mr K to ask him to 
confirm when hed like the policy to start and that there had been no change in his health or 
other circumstances since he completed the application. Mr K responded the same day 
confirming thered been no changes in his circumstances and asking for the policy to start on 
22 April 2017.
On 10 April 2017 Mr K visited his GP. His GP records show he had a growth which was a 
little itchy, sore and bled at times. Hed been treating it as an infection linked to his 
testosterone condition but that was ineffective. Mr K was referred to a urologist. 
On 21 April 2017 Mr K had his appointment with the urologist. He was referred for a biopsy 
as well as an operation related to his testosterone condition. The urologist letter to his GP 
written that day noted that hed explained to Mr K that the raised area, referred to as a 
lesion, could be due to the existing testosterone condition but that they needed to rule out a 
malignant change. The letter to the GP also noted: He is booked to go for a holiday in the 
next 4 weeks and we had a discussion regarding this. I explained that it is better to have the 
operation before his holiday because I am not certain that the lesion is entirely benign.
On 25 April 2017 L&G told us it received confirmation from the IFA that Mr K wanted the 
policy and it sent Mr K an email the same day asking him to log on and confirm his details.
 
On the 26 April 2017 Mr K logged into the online platform and confirmed the details hed 
given were correct.
In early May 2017 Mr Ks biopsy results confirmed he had cancer. Sadly, in March 2019 
Mr K died as a result of the cancer.
 
Following his death, Ms K tried to claim on the policy. To help its assessment of the claim, 
L&G requested information from Mr Ks GP. After reviewing the evidence received, it 
became aware of the appointments in April 2017. It said these showed a change in Mr Ks 
health which he had an ongoing duty to tell L&G about until the policy started on 22 April 
2017. L&G said had it known about the ongoing investigations it would have postponed 
cover and cover would eventually have been refused given Mr Ks later diagnosis of cancer. 
L&G felt Mr K had carelessly misrepresented his circumstances by failing to share this 
information. And so, it declined the claim, avoided the policy (cancelled the policy from the 
start) and refunded the premiums. 
Ms K didnt think this was fair, so she complained. But L&G didnt uphold this. Ms K then 
brought her concerns to our service.
Ms K noted Mr K wasnt diagnosed with cancer until May 2017. She made the following 
points in relation to the complaint:
Mr K thought he just had an infection which were sometimes caused by Mr Ks 
testosterone condition. 
Ms K said Mr K was told by the urologist that the growth looked like it was part of the 
testosterone condition but that a biopsy would be taken to rule out anything sinister. 
The consultants record from 10 April 2017 make note of this condition.
Ms K also suggested to L&G that it may have just slipped Mr Ks mind to tell L&G 
about the biopsy with everything else he had going on.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought L&G had acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. Ms K didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach the same decision as the
Investigator buy for slightly different reasons. I shared my provisional findings with L&G and 
the estate of Mr K so both had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further 
evidence. My provisional findings were:
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry for Ms Ks loss and would like to pass on my condolences.
Ive taken into account the appropriate industry guidance that was in place at the time L&G 
made their decision. This is called, Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI 
Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income
Protection Insurance Products April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
The code states insurers should consider all of the circumstances when assessing a claim. 
Insurers should think about the clarity of the questions asked at application and whether an 
intermediary was involved. Consideration should also be given as to whether the customer 
had the opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately 
prominent. 
The code outlines that for a misrepresentation to be categorised as careless, a reasonable 
person would have had to considered that the information was relevant to the insurer and 
the consumer must have failed to take reasonable care. 
For an insurer to avoid the policy and return the premiums, the code also says the careless 
misrepresentation/s would also have to have resulted in the application being declined.
was there a careless misrepresentation?
L&G wasnt told about Mr Ks appointments in April 2017, the possible concerns identified, or 
the tests requested and undertaken. And it thinks it should have been. It thought this was 
careless misrepresentation by Mr K.So, Ive thought about the circumstances surrounding Mr Ks application. L&G hasnt raised 
any concerns about the content of Mr Ks initial application. But it said that based on the 
information within the application form, Mr K ought to have known he had an ongoing duty of 
disclosure until the policy started.
When Mr K applied for the policy, he used a financial advisor. So, I dont know how these 
questions were relayed, in particular whether he was read the requirement in the declaration 
saying I will immediately inform Legal & General in writing if there are any changes to any 
answers on the application before the policy starts. So, I dont think it would be fair to simply 
look at the initial application when assessing whether Mr K took reasonable care here.
But on 25 April 2017 Mr K received an email asking him to confirm his details and provided 
instructions for doing so online. L&G have provided evidence to show this email advised:
Although your policy has been accepted, please let us know if there have been any changes 
to any of your answers you gave on your application since it was submitted as it could affect 
any claim. If your policy has started, we still need you to confirm your details are correct. 
To do this, follow the instructions below.
On 26 April 2017 Mr K logged into his online account and confirmed the accuracy of his 
details. The confirmation page warned:
It is very important that all of the information youve provided is full and accurate.
Available to Mr K on this page was the document containing the application questions and 
Mr Ks answers  it opened separately. This document also had two separate warnings 
within it about ensuring the accuracy of the information contained within. It said:
Important Information 
You must answer the application questions truthfully and accurately.
DECLARATION 
It's important that you read the following carefully. By accepting this I agree that:

 The information given in this application has been provided truthfully and accurately.
 I am aware that the information provided will form part of the legal relationship between us 
and if any of it is found to be incorrect it may mean that a claim is not paid or the policy is 
amended or cancelled.
 I will immediately inform Legal & General in writing if there are any changes to any answers 
given on the application before the policy starts.
Given this, Im satisfied that at this point Mr K had direct access to his application, the 
questions asked and his answers. Ive noted that Mr K logged in at 10:32:30 and confirmed 
his answers at 10:33:43  so I think its unlikely he carefully read through the eight-page 
document. But I think he was given sufficient advice about the importance of doing so. And I 
also think it was clear Mr K needed to ensure this information was accurate at the point the 
policy started. 
So, Ive considered the questions Mr K was asked and the information provided. 
The questions L&G thought Mr K answered incorrectly at the point he confirmed his details 
were:
1. Apart from anything you've already told us about, during the last 2 years have you: 
been referred to, or been under the care of, a hospital specialist?
Yes
i) Is this for something you have already told us about on this application?Yes
ii) Under which section did you tell us about this?
Other
iii) Have you anything else to tell us about under this heading?
No
Under the other section to which Mr K had referred, hed detailed his low 
testosterone condition. He was then asked follow-up questions about this condition, 
including:
iv)Please give details, including dates and results, of any tests or investigations for 
this.
I was diagnosed with low testosterone and since then have a blood test and 
testosterone injection every 12 weeks
v)Please give details of any treatment you had, or are having, for this.
I was diagnosed with low testosterone and since then have a blood test and 
testosterone injection every 12 weeks
vi)Please give details of when you last suffered any symptoms and whether you are 
fully recovered.
Fully recovered 
vii)Have you anything else to tell us about under this heading.
No 
2. During the last 3 months, have you had: unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or 
growth?
No
3. During the last 3 months, have you had: any other symptom for which you may see a 
health professional about for the first time during the next 4 weeks?
No
Looking at the first question listed here, its clear that prior to the start of the policy, Mr K had 
been referred to a hospital specialist  a urologist. And this was within the last two years. 
But Ms K said Mr K thought this was linked to his existing testosterone condition  which he 
declared. And I can see why he may have thought this. The urologists letter to the GP 
following the consultation did reference that this might be due to Mr Ks testosterone 
condition. But the letter clearly states Mr K was told it might not be linked. So, I dont think it 
would have been reasonable to assume these were linked for the purposes of this form, 
particularly given the investigative biopsy was outstanding. I say this noting that the 
application clearly told Mr K When answering the following questions, if youre unsure 
whether to tell us about a medical condition, please tell us anyway. Taking this into account, 
I think its fair for L&G to suggest Mr K ought to have disclosed the urologist referral here.  
Id also note that even if Mr K had considered that the growth fell under the already disclosed 
testosterone condition, he didnt provide details of the recent investigations into this, or that 
he had recently experienced this as a symptom  which I think its reasonable to expect him 
to have done in response to these specific questions. So, either way, I think its fair for L&G 
to suggest Mr K didnt take reasonable care to disclose relevant information here. 
In relation to question two above, I think the medical evidence does show Mr K had an 
unexplained lump  referred to by the GP as a growth. I note the urologist used the word 
lesion, but he also referred to a raised area, so I think a reasonable person would consider 
this to be a lump. I appreciate Mr K initially thought this was linked to his testosterone 
condition, but a urologist later referred him for a biopsy to establish the cause. So, I think its 
fair for L&G to conclude Mr K ought to have known the lump was unexplained. I also think Mr Ks growth was potentially covered by question three. I say this as this was a 
new lump which hed visited the GP about for the first time within the last four weeks. But I 
think the phrasing of the question here suggests the consumer should only detail conditions 
they have not yet disclosed. And had Mr K disclosed details of this growth under previous 
questions as discussed above, I think its likely hed have answered no to this question.
Mr K is no longer with us, and so Im not able to ask him why he didnt include this 
information. Ive noted that Ms K has said he may have simply overlooked this given the 
amount he had to deal with at this time. And this may well have been the case, particularly 
given the short amount of time Mr K took to log-in and confirm his details. I do think its fair 
for L&G to find Mr K failed to take reasonable care with his answers here. The code says a 
careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight or an 
inadvertent mistake to serious negligence. And given these medical referrals were made just 
a few weeks before Mr K confirmed these details, I do think theyd have been fresh in his 
mind. So, I think this is a fair categorisation of the misrepresentation.
was it fair for L&G to avoid the policy?
Where there has been a careless misrepresentation, L&G should look at what it would have 
done had it had all of the information available to it at that time. L&G has said it would have 
postponed cover pending the outcome of the biopsy and then declined cover following the 
confirmed cancer diagnosis. And I have seen underwriting evidence which supports this. 
So, I think L&G acted reasonably in avoiding the policy and refunding the premiums. 
Response to my provisional findings
L&G had nothing further to add. 
The estate of Mr K didnt accept my provisional findings and noted:
Mr K was told the biopsy was precautionary but that the likely cause was the 
testosterone condition. The letter from the urologist to Mr Ks GP is unlikely to reflect 
the wording that was used when speaking with Mr K.
Mr K never had or complained of a lump - he had a raised patch of skin and it was 
not in any way a lump. The urologist did not refer to this as a lump, but rather as a 
growth  which is the medical term for an abnormal formation of tissue.
Mr K and the urologist thought the raised patch of skin was related to his 
testosterone condition. This was not unusual for Mr K and the only differing feature 
was that it wasnt responding to his usual treatment.
Ms K felt Mr K wasnt being judged as a reasonable consumer but with the benefit of 
hindsight.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that the wording between medical professionals is unlikely to be the same as the 
wording used to patients. But the letter to the GP from the urologist directly comments on 
what Mr K was told. So, whilst Mr K may have still thought the probable cause was the 
testosterone condition, the evidence indicates he was told by a medical professional it may 
not have been. Given this, I dont think it would have been reasonable for him to make this 
assumption for the purposes of the form.Ive carefully considered the points made here about whether Mr K had a lump. But even if I 
were to accept that Mr K did not view this as such, the question asked about a lump or 
growth?. And growth was the term used by the GP to describe Mr Ks skin condition. So, I 
still think its fair for L&G to suggest Mr K ought to have disclosed this here.
And even if I could conclude Mr K reasonably thought the two conditions were linked and 
that the skin problem was not a lump or growth, the outcome would ultimately be the same. 
Mr K didnt provide L&G with details of the recent investigations into this raised patch of skin, 
or that he had recently experienced this as a symptom. And there were clear specific 
questions about this. So, either way, I think its fair for L&G to suggest Mr K didnt take 
reasonable care to disclose relevant information here. 
Whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms K, Im not persuaded to change 
my findings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman