DRN-3832058
The complaint
Ms S complains because Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON (Aegon) declined critical 
illness claims under her life and critical illness insurance policies.  
What happened
Ms S holds two life and critical illness insurance policies, with decreasing benefits. 
Unfortunately, Ms S was diagnosed with myeloma and she made claims for critical illness 
benefit under her policies with Aegon. Aegon declined the claims. It initially said Ms Ss 
diagnosis was classed as a pre-cancerous condition which wasnt covered under the terms 
and conditions of her policies. But Aegon said, as Ms S was being monitored on a watch 
and wait basis, it would contact her again in 12 months time for an update on her condition. 
Aegon also said Ms S could contact it in the meantime if she wished to discuss any changes 
to her diagnosis. 
Ms S disputed this and she appealed to Aegon, who requested further information from Ms 
Ss consultant haematologist (who Ill call Dr H). After considering Dr Hs response, Aegon 
maintained its stance and said Ms Ss policies excluded less advanced cases of cancer  
and it considered her diagnosis to be a less advanced, pre-malignant and pre-invasive case. 
But, Aegon said it would be able to pay Ms S's claims when her condition progressed to a 
diagnosis of multiple myeloma.  
Unhappy, Ms S brought her complaint to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and issued several opinions explaining why 
she didnt think Aegon had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Ms Ss claims. 
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators opinions, so the complaint has been referred to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Ms Ss diagnosis. This must have been a very stressful and 
upsetting time for Ms S and her family, and I have no doubt this continues to be the case. I 
wish Ms S the best for the future.  
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive had regard to these 
rules, as well as to other relevant considerations such as the Association of British Insurers 
(ABIs) Statement of Best Practice for Critical Illness Cover in force at the time and the 
definitions set out in the ABIs Guide to Minimum Standards for Critical Illness Cover 2019, 
when making my decision about Ms Ss complaint.
Ms Ss policies provide for the payment of a benefit in the event of a cancer diagnosis 
(excluding less advanced cases). The policies terms and conditions define this as:
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and 
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue.

For the above definition, the following are not covered:
all cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following:
-pre-malignant
-non-invasive
-cancer in situ
-having either borderline malignancy, or
-having low malignant potential
This wording mirrors that set out in the relevant ABI guidance which Ive referred to above. 
So, Ms Ss policies dont cover all malignant tumours  there are exclusions. Its for Aegon to 
demonstrate that its likely, based on the available medical evidence, that Ms Ss condition 
falls within the policy exclusions. 
When deciding whether I think Aegon has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Ms Ss 
claims, its not for me to reach my own medical conclusions about Ms Ss condition or to 
substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, Ive considered whether I think 
Aegon has made a fair decision based on the available medical evidence. For the avoidance 
of doubt, the available medical evidence in this case isnt just that from Dr H. The opinion of 
Aegons chief medical officer is also medical evidence which I think its reasonable for both 
Aegon, and for this service, to take into account. 
I should say that its not in dispute that Ms Ss myeloma is malignant and that the myeloma is 
likely to progress. And, whether Ms S needs treatment isnt a consideration  the policy 
wording which Ive quoted above doesnt refer to treatment. The issue for me to decide is 
whether I think the medical evidence supports Aegons conclusion that Ms Ss condition is 
non-invasive. 
Id generally consider that the information provided by a treating medical professional at the 
initial point of claim is persuasive medical evidence. I note that, on the claim form completed 
by Dr H, Ms Ss condition was described in the following terms:
Multiple myeloma 
-smouldering/asymptomatic Myeloma  malignant plasma cells  no bony 
lesions

Staging not appropriate for smouldering myeloma
In terms of future plans, Dr H wrote:Watchful waiting
Likely to progress within a year or so -  - however currently being closely monitor 
[sic] for development of symptomatic myeloma before treatment commenced
And, Dr H answered no in response to the following question:
Is the tumour classed as pre-malignant, non-invasive, or as cancer-in-situ?.
So, Dr H initially said that Ms Ss claim didnt fall within the exclusion quoted above. 
However, Aegons chief medical officer disagreed. 
In a follow-up letter dated 6 May 2022, Dr H set out the diagnostic criteria for smouldering 
myeloma and multiple myeloma (which are different) and confirmed that Ms S had 
smouldering myeloma. Ive quoted below what I believe is a key extract from the letter: 
The International Myeloma Working Group diagnostic criteria for multiple myeloma is 
a clonal bone marrow plasma cell percentage greater than 10% and one of the 
following myeloma defining events:

Bone lesions present on CT scan or x-ray.
Aegons chief medical officer for oncology has said there is no invasion of adjacent tissue as 
there are no boney lesions on imagingWe are agreed that the level of clonal plasma cells 
in the bone marrow fit with smouldering myeloma and not multiple myeloma. Aegon says 
this means the claims arent covered because Ms Ss policies exclude both non-invasive 
cancer and cancer in situ.
I appreciate that Dr H originally said Ms Ss condition wasnt non-invasive but, based on the 
follow-up explanations provided by Dr H and the evidence of Aegons chief medical officer, 
Im satisfied that Ms Ss condition is likely to be considered non-invasive. This means that I 
dont think Ms Ss claims are covered under her policies and I dont think Aegon acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining the claims. 
It may have been helpful if Aegon had given Ms S more precise and/or detailed reasons for 
declining her claims from the outset. However, our service has an inquisitorial remit which 
allows me to consider the subject matter of a complaint as a whole and it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Aegon to pay claims that I dont think are covered under the 
policy wording  regardless of the reasons which Aegon initially gave Ms S for declining her 
claims. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ss comments about the fact that her policies provide for 
decreasing benefits, but this doesnt change my decision. Ive seen no evidence that Ms Ss 
claims have been considered any less favourably than they would have been if shed held 
level benefit policies. And, whats relevant here is whether I think Ms S is entitled to claim a 
benefit under her policies now. The fact that Ms S may be very likely to be entitled to claim 
benefits in the future doesnt mean that Aegon should pay her claim now, in circumstances 
where her policies dont cover the claims  this isnt how these policies work.  
The example case which Ms S has quoted isnt a relevant consideration when making my 
decision, as the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt bound by precedent and makes 
decisions based on the individual circumstances of each complaint. But, in any event, I dont 
agree that Ms Ss condition is similar to a listed condition/exclusion  I think Ms Ss condition falls within the exclusion set out in her policies. 
After our investigator issued her initial opinion about this complaint, Ms S sent us an extract 
from a letter where her medical history is described as Smouldering/asymptomatic multiple 
myeloma. If Ms S wishes for Aegon to consider new medical evidence, as it has previously 
offered to do, then shed need to send that evidence in its entirety to Aegon directly for it to 
review. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, and I know this wont be the outcome she was hoping for, but I 
wont be directing Aegon to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman