DRN-3047350
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to switch her pension to a 
SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
Mrs T, through her representative, complained to Alexander David Securities Limited in May 
2020. I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred it to us and it was passed to one of our investigators to 
consider. 
The investigator asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it 
wanted us to take into account. However no files or evidence or arguments were received. 
The investigator therefore sent his assessment of the complaint to both parties based on the 
evidence that was available. 
The investigator said he understood that Mrs T had been cold called by St Pauls Marketing 
and was promised greater growth than shed receive in her existing pension if she switched 
to a SIPP with a particular provider. 
At the time of the advice Mrs T was in her mid-50s, employed, with an income of between 
£10,000 to £25,000 per year. She had a personal pension valued at approximately £23,500.
The investigator said that Mrs T had no investment experience or knowledge of financial or 
pension markets. 
The value of the personal pension was switched to the SIPP in June 2016.. A stockbroking 
account was set up and the majority of the money was transferred into it and invested in Just 
Loans debentures.
The investigator said he thought that St Pauls Marketing had made a personal 
recommendation to Mrs T to switch and invest as she did. This was based on her testimony 
that this was what had happened, that Alexander David hadnt disputed it, and he thought it 
was consistent with the other evidence available. This included that the original pension 
provider had copies of letters from St Pauls Marketing requesting the switch; the SIPP 
provider had confirmed that Mrs T had been introduced to it through St Pauls Marketing; and 
he thought it was unlikely that someone with Mrs Ts investment experience would seek this 
particular SIPP and investment of her own volition.
The investigator thought that recommending Mrs T invest her entire pension into one 
business lacked diversification. He said he didnt think the advice to switch and invest as she 
did was appropriate advice. She had an income of no more than £25,000, a low attitude to 
risk, and didnt have the capacity to accept the losses that could result from investing in the 
high-risk manner that the investment presented.
The investigator said he understood from the evidence that St Pauls Marketing had arranged 
the investment for Mrs T. He said his understanding was that the investment was a non-
readily realisable security. He said COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs Ts 
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product 
offered.
The investigator said he thought that if an appropriateness test had been completed he 
didnt think it would demonstrate the investment was suitable for Mrs T given her experience 
and knowledge. He said overall, he didnt believe Mrs T would have switched her pension 
and invested in the way she did had she been told the pension and investment wasnt 
appropriate for her. 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt 
provide a response. The investigator e-mailed both parties on 14 September 2021 explaining 
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman to review and make a final decision. 
The investigator subsequently e-mailed both parties on 10 and 18 November 2021 setting 
out a revised methodology for calculating fair compensation. 
Mrs Ts representative said that if Mrs T hadnt originally been advised to invest by 
Alexander David she wouldnt have re-invested the funds in January 2019. So it thought that 
there was an ongoing loss, and the end date for the calculation of compensation shouldnt 
be the date of re-investment.
No further evidence or arguments were presented by Alexander David. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mrs Ts original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer (technically known as a switch) and investment. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available, including Mrs Ts recollection of 
events. The investigator set out his thoughts on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what he said or provided any further evidence or arguments. 
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset and following its input Mrs T transferred her pension to the SIPP 
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mrs Ts 
background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this 
type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and subsequent 
investment. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated it. 
The investigator said he didnt think the investment strategy St Pauls Marketing had 
recommended was suitable for Mrs T. The firm hasnt disputed this. For the same reasons 
as set out by the investigator, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did 
advise Mrs T to transfer and invest in the debentures. 
The debentures were listed on a smaller overseas exchange, had limited liquidity, and the 
firm behind them were operating in a relatively new market and had a limited track record. In 
my view investing the majority of Mrs Ts pension in a single asset increased the degree of 
risk the transaction presented. Overall, I think the transfer and investment into the 
debentures presented significant risks, and I dont think it was suitable for Mrs T in her circumstances; particularly given her low attitude to risk, that she had no capacity for loss 
and limited investment knowledge or experience.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mrs T, I think the evidence shows 
it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable 
security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs Ts knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered 
or demanded so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her. 
Mrs T said she had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. 
Ive seen no evidence of Mrs T having a history of making this type of investment. The 
debentures presented significant risks and were speculative. In my view they werent 
appropriate for Mrs T given her knowledge and experience and this should have been clear 
to St Pauls Marketing. 
In my view the investment strategy lacked diversification, was subject to potential illiquidity 
and significant investment risks. Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, 
I think it was clear that the investments werent suitable or appropriate for Mrs T. Im satisfied 
that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mrs T to transfer and invest in the debentures, or if 
it had told her they werent suitable or appropriate for her, she wouldnt have transferred and 
invested in them. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mrs T to transfer and 
invest in a product that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mrs T has claimed.
Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs T as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mrs 
T would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Ts 
circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mrs T fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should compare the 
performance of Mrs Ts investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value 
is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is 
a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mrs Ts pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Limited 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Ts pension 
plan it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ts actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age.
I think Mrs T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs T would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
25 
January 
2019The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 25 January 2019 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mrs Ts 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should: 
Pay Mrs T £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her.
Provide details of the calculation to Mrs T in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment).Fair value 
This is what the transfer value would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line 
with the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or 
other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mrs Ts circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in her complaint Mrs T said she had a low attitude to risk.  In all the circumstances, I 
dont think Mrs T would have transferred but for St Pauls Marketings failures. However her 
existing pension was invested in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than she has said 
she was prepared to accept. So I think its likely Mrs T would have switched to funds better 
aligned to her risk profile if suitable advice had been given. I dont know exactly how she 
would have invested. But I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate 
benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Mrs T was willing and able to 
take.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Ts risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only prepared 
to take a limited level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mrs T into that position. 
It doesnt mean that Mrs T would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort 
of return Mrs T could have obtained from investments suited to her objectives and risk 
attitude. 
Mrs Ts representative has said that it doesnt think the end date for the calculation should 
be when Mrs T re-invested in January 2019; if it hadnt been for Alexander Davids original 
advice she wouldnt have re-invested. 
However my understanding is that in January 2019 the debentures matured and had paid 
the interest as intended. The information about re-investing wasnt provided by Alexander 
David, and Mrs T could have sought advice from it or another source at the time she chose 
to re-invest. I dont think Alexander David is responsible for Mrs Ts decision to re-invest, and 
Im satisfied the January 2019 end date for the calculation (with additional interest added to 
any loss from that date), is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs T on 
the basis I set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman