DRN-3890297
The complaint
Mr D complains about a default recorded on his credit file by NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua.
 
What happened
Mr D had a credit card with Aqua that fell into arrears. On 29 September 2017 Aqua sent Mr 
D a Default Notice that said he had until 21 October 2017 to clear the arrears on his credit 
card. The default notice explained that if arrears werent cleared before 21 October 2017 the 
credit agreement would be terminated, credit card closed and balance would become due 
immediately. The default notice also said the debt could then be sold to a third party. 
No payment was made before 21 October 2017. On 15 November 2017 Aqua sent Mr D a 
letter confirming the credit agreement had been terminated and that the full balance was 
due. Aqua went on to refer the account to a firm of debt collectors. The file was returned to 
Aqua from the debt collectors in February 2018. Aqua recorded a default on Mr Ds credit file 
dated 28 February 2018. 
Mr D complained and said Aquas default had led to a mortgage application being declined. 
Aqua sent a final response but didnt agree it had made a mistake when terminating the 
credit agreement or recording a default. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint and upheld it. The investigator 
thought the arrears on the credit card were reasonable grounds for Aqua to terminate the 
credit agreement and record a default on Mr Ds credit file. But the investigator thought Aqua 
had waited too long after issuing the default notice to take the step of terminating the credit 
agreement. The investigator asked Aqua to backdate the default to 21 October 2017, in line 
with the default notice. Aqua didnt agree and asked to appeal. Mr D confirmed he was 
willing to accept. As Aqua asked to appeal, Mr Ds case has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the account correspondence and information provided by both sides. I 
understand there were genuine reasons why Mr Ds payments werent made. Ive 
considered whether it was reasonable of Aqua to take the step of terminating the credit card 
and recording a default on Mr Ds credit file. And Ive considered when the fairest point to 
record the default was. 
Aqua received a payment from Mr D at the beginning of July 2017 but no further payments 
were made. Industry guidance says businesses can look to default a credit agreement thats 
between three and six months behind. Given the arrears that built following the last payment 
made, Im satisfied there were reasonable grounds for Aqua to look at Mr Ds account and 
consider terminating it. 
Theres no set guidance on when a business has to terminate a credit agreement. But Ive 
looked at the information Aqua sent Mr D. Aquas Default Notice said it would terminate the 
credit agreement on 21 October 2017 if the arrears werent cleared in full. The Default Notice 
confirmed the status of the account would be shared with the credit reference agencies. The 
arrears werent cleared in full by that date so Aqua sent a termination notice on 15 
November 2017 that confirmed the credit agreement had been terminated. 
Despite confirming the credit agreement had been terminated and not receiving any 
payments from July 2017 onwards, Aqua didnt record the default on Mr Ds credit file until 
February 2018  after a debt collector tried to arrange payment on its behalf. Im not 
persuaded thats fair. Aqua says it was following its normal approach. Whilst that may be the 
case, I have to apply the process to Mr Ds case to see whether hes been treated fairly or 
not. And Im not satisfied Aquas approach was right for Mr D. 
In my view, it wouldve been fairer to terminate the credit agreement in line with the date 
given in the default notice, rather than wait another four months. The credit agreement was 
terminated within a few weeks of the date given in the default notice. I think the default date 
should reflect that, not when the account was returned by debt collectors acting for Aqua. 
Our investigator asked Aqua to amend the default date to 21 October 2017, the date given in 
the Default Notice. Im satisfied that date more fairly reflects the account activity and 
decision to terminate Mr Ds credit agreement. So Im going to proceed on that basis and 
direct Aqua to amend Mr Ds credit file to reflect a default date of 21 October 2017. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
amend the default date recorded on his credit file to 21 October 2017.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman