DRN-2759446
The complaint
Miss E complains about a term assurance policy she was sold. Responsibility for the sale 
now sits with Health-on-line Company UK Limited. Ill use HOL in my decision to mean 
them, and their predecessors.
What happened
Over the course of five calls and some emails in February 2015, Miss E bought a term 
assurance policy through HOL. She said on the calls that she wanted the policy to run until 
she was 80. HOL sold her a policy with an 18-year term. That means the longest the policy 
can run for is 79 years and one month after Miss E was born.
Miss E realised in 2020 that her policy wasnt going to run to her 80th birthday, so she raised 
her complaint. In response, HOL said that although the sales calls had initially discussed a 
policy that ran till Miss E was 80, the cost led to Miss E choosing one with an 18-year term. 
They also felt the documents sent after the sale explained the policys duration. 
Miss E wasnt happy with that response, so the matter came to us. Our investigator found 
the policy term could only be set in whole year increments, and couldnt have been set to run 
past Miss Es 80th birthday. So he felt the actual policy was as it needed to be. But he felt 
HOL should have done more to make the situation clear to Miss E at the time. To recognise 
the trouble and upset the confusion had caused her, our investigator said HOL should pay 
Miss E £300 compensation. 
Miss E accepted this view, but HOL didnt. Theyve repeated that they feel the calls and 
emails were clear about the 18-year term and the end date of the policy. As theres no 
agreement to resolve the complaint, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find HOL have caused some confusion here, and should pay Miss E 
compensation to acknowledge that. Ill explain why.
Listening to the calls in 2015, its clear cost was an important factor for Miss E. But I dont 
agree with HOLs response to the complaint that this was why the policy didnt run until 
Miss E was 80. She was clear on the calls that she didnt want the term reduced. Instead, 
the discussion looked at changing the sum assured  how much the policy would pay if 
Miss E made a claim.
Its not clear when HOLs representative decided to change the term of the policy to 18 
years. They dont explain the reasoning for it at any point in the calls. But I accept its for the 
reasons our investigator found  because the policy provider wouldnt set a policy up with a 
term of 18 years and 11 months, or which ran past Miss Es 80th birthday. 
By not explaining the reason for this change, HOLs representative has made the references 
to the policy running until Miss E was 80 and it having an 18-year term sound like they are 
the same thing. HOL should have done more to make it clear they werent. 
Failing to make this clear has led to Miss E having an unwelcome surprise later on  when 
she realised the policy would end before her 80th birthday. 
There were perhaps other occasions when Miss E could have realised what the true 
situation was though. For example, when she received the emails confirming the policy had 
been set up. These clearly showed its end date  before Miss Es 80th birthday.
But I find the fact Miss E spent five calls and a lot of time discussing the policy with HOL 
would have  understandably  given her a strong impression that things were as shed told 
HOL she wanted them. I feel this highlights even more why HOL should have done more to 
make it clear to Miss E that the policy wasnt going to be exactly as she wanted. 
Without more from HOL to draw Miss Es attention to the impact the 18-year term would 
have on the policy she was discussing with them, I can understand why she didnt realise 
until later that there was a problem. 
Putting things right
If the service had been reasonable, Miss E would have been able to decide if she was happy 
with the policy ending when it does, before she committed to having it. But it may not have 
been possible for her to have a policy that went exactly to her 80th birthday, without the cost 
increasing by a relatively large amount. 
So Im not going to have HOL try to construct some other policy for Miss E, or make them 
give her an indemnity for the 11 months where she wont have the cover she expected. 
But Ive heard from the calls how important it was for Miss E to have the policy set up as she 
wanted it. She wanted peace of mind for the future, and to be comfortable with the overall 
cost to her if she ended up not needing to make a claim. That feelings been undermined by 
the failing here, even though the policy probably isnt too different to what Miss E would have 
had, if the service had been reasonable. 
Compensation doesnt take these sorts of unwelcome surprises away. But it can recognise 
and acknowledge the emotional impact of a businesss mistakes. Even then, putting a figure 
on emotions and inconveniences is a matter of opinion. 
Ive decided the £300 figure our investigator suggested is the right one. To me, it balances 
how Miss E feels about her complaint, against my view that ultimately the policy shes ended 
up with is probably quite close to what she would have had if the service had been 
reasonable. Its also broadly in line with the figures we  as an ombudsman  tend to direct 
for this sort of impact. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint about Health-on-line Company UK Limited. They should pay 
Miss E £300 to put right the emotional impact their error had on her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Paul MellorOmbudsman