DRN-3319621
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has allowed large scale and long-term fraud to take 
place by his ex-partner, due to it not following correct procedures. This has ruined him 
financially and has left him with large debts to repay. 
Mr H is being assisted in his complaint by his wife, Mrs H. 
What happened
Mr H asked us to look into a complaint concerning the allowance by Lloyds for three 
mortgage advances, a credit card, a loan and a number of transactions to be carried out by 
his ex-partner, which he says he didnt know about or otherwise authorise. This matter has 
also been the subject of a police investigation but as of yet no charges have been brought, 
and the matter has been in abeyance waiting on further information from Mr H for some time.   
On 3 November 2021, I issued a jurisdiction decision setting out that all of Mr Hs complaint, 
aside from that about a £20,000 over-the-counter transaction carried out in 2007, had been 
made out of time and so not something we could consider. 
Our investigator went on to consider that complaint but didnt uphold it. He found the 
withdrawal slip completed was noted to show the branch staff had spoken with Mr H over the 
phone about the transaction. He was therefore satisfied there was insufficient evidence to 
conclude this transaction wasnt authorised by Mr H. 
Mr H has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, Mr and Mrs H 
have said:
Mr H never called the branch about the transaction. And he never agreed for his ex-
partner to deal with his finances; she did this behind his back. 
They have provided lots of evidence that branch staff by-passed security procedures. 
They consider the branch staff wrote they had spoken with Mr H to cover up not 
having a third-party mandate for his ex-partner to make transactions on the account. 
Mr H knows he didnt give permission for this withdrawal and therefore knows that 
proper processes werent followed. 
Even if the bank is arguing that branch staff were given permission to carry out the 
transaction at the time, this wasnt enough bank security to remove £20,000 out of 
his Mr Hs account. He says he should have signed the slip as the only person 
entitled to remove money from his account. 
The slip is an over the counter slip, and its ludicrous to suggest that £20,000 was 
withdrawn in cash and subsequently handed back over to deposit into a different 
account. That Lloyds latterly describe the slip as being used for an internal transfer is 
a false statement as they were told by branch staff when raising this matter that it 
was for over-the-counter withdrawals. And it was the same branch staff who provided 
a copy of the withdrawal slip, it wasnt obtained as a result of a SAR. 
The reverse of the withdrawal slip hasnt been provided. This was supposed to be an 
ID checklist and an encashment checklist. The branch staff didnt complete this 
correctly showing it didnt follow correct processes. 
The mortgage advances and credit balances were arranged by the same member of 
branch, and there were a number of discrepancies during those processes which 
need to be taken into account and are evidence of branch staff not following the 
proper processes.  
They dont accept the bank only has a retention period for bank procedures of 10 
years given they have been provided with documentation, including for the further 
advances, from longer ago than that. 
They have researched procedures for withdrawing such an amount, which wouldnt; 
be allowed over the phone; Lloyds website shows the maximum possible is £10,000. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only summarised the complaint, and 
the evidence and arguments provided, I have read and considered everything provided. That 
I havent listed all that has happened, or every point made, is reflective of my only being able 
to consider the complaint about the £20,000 withdrawal from Mr Hs account in 2007; having 
already decided that the remainder of this complaint falls outside of our jurisdiction as it was 
made outside of the time limits that apply. 
I understand Mr H feels very strongly about his complaint. But I need to bear in mind his 
allegations against his ex-partner have yet to be proven; so there is no independent 
corroboration that he has suffered domestic and economic abuse, or that his ex-partner has 
actually stolen from him. As I made clear in my jurisdiction decision, it is not my role to make 
findings about that. 
My consideration here is solely in relation to the £20,000 withdrawal and whether anything 
went wrong during that process that means Lloyds is liable for reimbursing Mr H. In order to 
make such an award, I would need to be persuaded that there was a wrong act or omission 
by Lloyds and that act or omission led to Mr H suffering a loss. 
This transaction happened many years ago  over 11 years prior to Mr H complaining about 
it. That means there is very little evidence available from that time for me to consider. The 
only documentation that remains is a withdrawal slip and statements showing the money 
went from Mr Hs account into his ex-partners account.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute this transaction took place in branch. So this was an 
over-the-counter transaction even if cash wasnt handed over and handed back; the money 
was likely transferred from one account to the other electronically. There also doesnt appear 
to have been a third-party mandate for Mr Hs ex-partner to operate the account; if there 
was, there wouldnt have been a need for branch staff to annotate the withdrawal slip at all.  
The withdrawal slip says:
Spoke to Mr H by phone  well known customer [I have changed the name on the 
slip so Mr H cant be identified]  
This appears in the signature section of the slip  the slip also has an instruction for it to be 
signed in front of the cashier. Mr H has argued that he should have been required to sign the 
slip, as the only party entitled to remove money from the account. 
I understand the point Mr H is making but I dont agree. Providing it can be shown that 
authorisation has been given for a transaction to take place, other parties would be able to 
withdraw money from an account. Mr H clearly wasnt present for this transaction and so its not possible for him to have signed the slip. Such a signature is usually required to show its 
their actual customer that is making the request, but if a bank can verify the withdrawal 
request another way, then I wouldnt find it had done anything wrong. Im not persuaded the 
absence of a signature from Mr H is evidence the transaction was unauthorised. 
Mr H says he didnt authorise this request as he knows a call didnt take place and, therefore 
he knows that the bank didnt follow its correct processes [his emphasis]. Im afraid even the 
best memories fade over time, that Mr H doesnt recall the call  which isnt surprising given 
how long ago it took place  doesnt mean it didnt happen. Indeed, during this complaint Mr 
H alleged a further advance had taken place without his knowledge  but contemporaneous 
evidence showed he signed the title deeds in front of witnesses. So Mr Hs memory of the 
events complained about is fallible.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, like here, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is most likely to have happened given the evidence 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances. Having done so, Im satisfied its most 
likely this call did take place. I say this because:
Mr Hs ex-partner dealt with all of the household finances. Although he has latterly 
said his ex-partner dealt with his accounts behind his back, that wasnt Mr Hs 
original complaint submission. In that, Mr H explained that his ex-partner took control 
of the finances whilst he concentrated on the business and he understandably 
trusted her. I prefer Mr Hs original testimony about how finances were managed, to 
his testimony after receiving a non-uphold view from our investigator.  As Mr Hs ex-
partner was handling the household finances then it stands to reason that would, on 
occasion, involve his sole account. Therefore his ex-partner moving money to, or 
from, his account wouldnt be unusual, providing the bank had his authorisation to do 
so. Making a call to Mr H is one way of obtaining that authorisation. 
As set out above, the slip was annotated by branch staff to say they had spoken with 
Mr H. I would question why they would add that, if that isnt what happened. It 
couldnt have been known to staff that it would be many years before the transaction 
was questioned, when records would be limited. If they hadnt spoken with Mr H, that 
matter could have come to light very quickly, phone records checked and if a call 
hadnt taken place the branch staff would be at risk of losing their job, or at the very 
least disciplinary action. Im not persuaded its likely staff would take such a risk over 
their livelihood. 
The transaction took place in 2007. This was at a time when Mr H had been signed 
off as being unfit to work. It was shortly before this that Mr H lost a very close family 
member and there might have been negligence involved. I think it fair to say that Mr 
Hs mind would have been on other matters and so its understandable he doesnt 
recall such a call taking place. And given Mr H has said this money was part of an 
inheritance, I consider it unlikely he wouldnt have known what had happened to it. 
When questioned by police, the staff member who completed the withdrawal slip 
couldnt remember the transaction, which isnt surprising given the sheer number of 
transactions that must have occurred in the intervening years. But they were satisfied 
that if they wrote on the slip that they had spoken with Mr H, then that was what had 
happened. I find it highly unlikely the branch staff wouldnt have given an honest 
statement to the police, given the implications of not doing so. 
Mr H has argued that even if branch staff were given permission to carry out the transaction 
that wasnt enough bank security to remove £20,000 out of his account. Im not sure of the 
basis on which Mr H makes this argument. He hasnt provided any evidence to show that 
obtaining permission in this way was contrary to any bank processes or procedures at the 
time. Im satisfied that if the bank was able to verify they were speaking with their actual 
customer and they were given authorisation for the transaction to take place, then the transaction could proceed.   
We did ask Lloyds if it had documentation setting out its procedures from 2007. It has told us 
that these have a retention period of 10 years and as that time has passed it no longer has 
any information. Mr H doesnt believe what Lloyds is telling us is correct. He has cited it 
telling him it didnt have any mortgage information, yet he was able to obtain this. And as the 
mortgage documentation is over 10 years old, he believes it should also have process 
information. 
I do understand why Mr H is making the point he is, but customer data  i.e. the mortgage 
applications and offers etc  is entirely different to a banks internal processes and 
procedures. It doesnt follow that customer data being available means a banks internal 
governance documents setting out processes and procedures would be. And we need to 
remember this was an entirely different legal entity  Lloyds TSB  which no longer exists. 
Mr H has also argued that part of the withdrawal slip has been completed in a different pen 
which he considers clearly suggests that branch staff added part of the annotation in at a 
later date. He appears to be implying that branch staff have fabricated evidence; this is a 
very serious allegation which shouldnt be made lightly and without supporting evidence.   
And Mr H hasnt provided any persuasive evidence in support of what he says, only his 
belief. That something appears to be in a different pen doesnt automatically mean it was, or 
that it was added at a different time  this could easily be explained away by a pen running 
out at the time the slip was completed, the copy of the slip being a poor photocopy or the 
photocopier ink being uneven.  
Mr H has also been researching banks processes and procedures now, looking at 
withdrawal slips and what amounts can be transferred using telephone banking. But I dont 
find any of this information persuasive. Mr H is now looking at different legal entities, and 
some 15 years later.  Procedures now are unlikely to be the same as 15 years ago. And this 
wasnt a telephone banking transaction, but a branch transaction where branch staff spoke 
with Mr H over the telephone to obtain authorisation for the transaction to go ahead.
Mr H has also asked us to look at the mortgage documentation as evidence of discrepancies 
and the bank not following proper processes.  However, Mr H is aware that the complaints 
about the further advances do not fall within our jurisdiction. If I were to consider that 
information and draw a conclusion that there were discrepancies or process wasnt followed, 
in support of a later transaction not being completed correctly, I would in effect be making a 
finding about those further advances. To do so would be acting outside of my powers.   
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, and fully understanding he is unlikely to 
accept my decision, Im satisfied it was more likely than not that Mr H gave authorisation for 
the transaction to take place. It follows that I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman