DRN-2576416
The complaint
The representatives of Mrs Ks estate have complained that ReAssure Limited, which owned 
the property, failed to claim on the insurance policy in place to protect the property when 
there was an escape of water. They put forward the policy was in ReAssures name and so 
the insurer wouldnt accept a claim from them. They are unhappy that while the insurance 
claim remained unresolved, interest continued to accumulate on the cash loan that Mrs K 
took as part of the arrangements with ReAssure. Mrs Ks estate also raised concerns about 
the suitability of the insurance policy as they didnt consider it was fit for purpose.
The estate is represented in the complaint by Miss S.
What happened
The late Mrs K arranged a home income plan on her property in 1990, whereby ReAssure 
became the owner of the property and she retained a 19% interest in it. She had a lease to 
remain in the property for life and received an annual income from the plan. In addition, 
Mrs K took out a cash loan, on which interest was payable throughout. During Mrs Ks 
lifetime the interest was paid via a deduction from the monthly income paid to her by the 
plan. 
As part of the home income plans terms and conditions, Mrs K had to maintain buildings 
insurance to protect the property. ReAssure asked for proof of insurance and when this 
wasnt provided in 2008, it added the property to its block policy with a large insurer. The 
property was insured in Mrs Ks name when this was done.
In 2012 it came to light that Mrs K had been insuring the property and had her own 
insurance policy in place. As such, the two insurers refunded half the premiums paid during 
the period of dual insurance in line with normal industry practice for such situations. It was 
confirmed at that time that Mrs K wanted to continue with the policy ReAssure put in place. 
No advice was given by ReAssure either when the policy was originally arranged in 2008 or 
when the decision to continue with it was made in 2012.
In January 2017 ReAssure was told by Mrs Ks family that she was in care. They asked for 
details about the arrangements and subsequently asked if Mrs Ks family could buy the 
property direct from ReAssure. ReAssure provided information about the property and 
process for selling it. It also said the property would need to be placed on the open market, 
but the family was welcome to make an offer once it was. It also confirmed the property 
value, as at the previous summer, had been £350,000.
Shortly thereafter, ReAssure was told Mrs Ks move into care was permanent. ReAssure 
was asked about the process was for selling the property. 
A few days later, it was discovered a pipe had burst in the roof of Mrs Ks home and there 
was considerable water damage. ReAssure was asked for its guidance. ReAssure asked 
that a claim be made under Mrs Ks buildings insurance policy and repairs arranged before 
the lease on the property was released to ReAssure, thereby allowing the property to be 
sold. ReAssure sent various documents to Mrs Ks family member, which were needed at 
various points before the property could be sold.
A claim was made under Mrs Ks insurance policy and the insurer offered to repair the 
property. However, Miss S on behalf of the estate asked for a cash settlement so the family 
could arrange the work themselves. The insurer agreed to a cash settlement, but there were 
disagreements about the detail of the offer made. In 2018 Miss S told ReAssure that she 
wasnt happy with the cash settlement offered for the insured repairs. She had complained 
and, because she was unhappy with the complaint response, had referred a complaint about 
the insurer to this service. 
ReAssure periodically asked for updates throughout 2017 and 2018 on the insurance claim 
and repairs. It also suggested it could take over the claim if Miss S was struggling to deal 
with it or alternatively it could arrange the repairs and deduct the cost from the sale price. It 
was also questioned whether the property had been cleared of Mrs Ks belongings and could 
be sold in an unrepaired state. 
Miss S raised a complaint against ReAssure with this service about the interest still accruing 
on the loan linked to the plan and about making the claim to the insurer. As it was apparent 
the complaint hadnt been made to ReAssure, we forwarded the complaint to it and asked it 
to respond. It did so. It explained that whilst it arranged for the property to be insured as part 
of the home income plan arrangements, the policy had been in Mrs Ks name. As such, it 
had been for Mrs K, or her representatives, to make a claim under the policy. It was satisfied 
the insurer was dealing with the claim and it would be for Miss S to continue to deal with the 
claim. 
ReAssure confirmed that the cash loan attached to the plan was still accruing interest and 
would continue to do so until the property was sold and the loan repaid. It didnt consider it 
was reasonable for the estate to want the loan to be redeemed at the 2017 amount, as 
ReAssure hadnt caused any delays. It also pointed out that it had offered to take over 
dealing with getting the property repaired. 
Miss S wasnt happy with ReAssures response and again asked us to consider the 
complaint. In addition to the complaint made on the complaint form previously sent to us, she 
confirmed that she also considered the insurance policy ReAssure arranged was not fit for 
purpose. ReAssure consented to us considering the new aspect of the complaint, without it 
doing so first.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She asked that the complaint be 
escalated to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first deal with the matter of the policy not being fit for purpose and unsuitable for 
Mrs Ks needs. As I have detailed above, ReAssure requires under the terms of the home 
income plan buildings insurance to be arranged to protect the property. In 2008 it arranged 
what appears to be standard buildings insurance for the property when Mrs K didnt confirm 
shed arranged insurance. This wasnt unreasonable and the policy clearly provided the 
cover ReAssure required  to protect the fabric of the building for certain events - which is all 
it needed to do. Subsequently, Mrs K and her representative decided to continue with the policy ReAssure 
had arranged rather than the one Mrs K had previously arranged. At that time Mrs K would 
have received several sets of policy documents for the policy, which detailed the cover 
provided by the policy. Mrs K made her own decision about which policy to continue, based 
on information she had about the policy, rather than based on any advice given by 
ReAssure. As such, I cant find ReAssure responsible if the policy didnt provide all the cover 
Mrs K or her family wanted it to. 
Whilst Miss S raised the issue that ReAssure should have made the insurance claim, I dont 
agree. The policy was arranged in Mrs Ks name and so it was for her, or her 
representatives, to raise the insurance claim. On a practical point, it was necessary for them 
to do so, as ReAssure didnt have access to the property  Mrs K had a lifetime lease on the 
property and ReAssure wasnt entitled to interfere with the property until her death or the 
lease had been released. Although there has been mention that the insurer didnt want to 
deal with Mrs K or her representative, but wanted to deal with ReAssure, I have seen no 
evidence of this. Had that been the case, I would have expected to see contact from the 
insurer on ReAssures file, but I havent seen any evidence of this. In addition, given the 
complaint to this service about the claim settlement, it is clear the insurer did progress the 
claim made by Mrs Ks representatives.
Miss S has said that she thinks it would be reasonable for ReAssure to have stopped 
charging interest on the cash loan balance when it was told about the property being 
damaged and couldnt be sold. As is normal for such arrangements, interest accrues on the 
cash loan until it is paid off. 
Had the reason for the delay in selling the property been due to an error on ReAssures 
apart, then I might consider it unreasonable for it to continue to charge interest, but thats not 
the case here. Indeed, ReAssure made offers to try to assist getting the property repaired 
and ready for sale, including paying for the repairs itself and deducting the cost from the sale 
proceeds, while Miss S continued to negotiate the claim settlement with the insurer. In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied ReAssure did nothing wrong when declining to waive the 
interest on the loan for the period of the insurance claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mrs K to accept or reject my 
decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman