DRN-2983086
The complaint
Mr T complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans provided him with a 
loan which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Buddy Loans provided Mr T with a loan as follows:
Loan Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountTypical  
monthly  
repayment*APR
1 April 2019 60 £4,000 £158.10 49.9%
When Mr T complained to Buddy Loans that this loan was unaffordable for him and 
insufficient checks were carried out at the time it was approved, Buddy Loans didnt uphold 
his complaint. It said sufficient checks were carried out and that the loan was affordable for 
him. So Mr T brought his complaint to us.
To resolve his complaint, Mr T (as I understand it) would like to pay monthly repayments 
minus the interest and he would like his guarantor removed from the loan. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and she set 
out the steps she said Buddy Loans should take to put things right. Our investigator didnt 
mention Mr Ts guarantor or make any recommendation about the guarantors continuing 
involvement. 
Buddy Loans disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that during the application 
process its checks included full credit searches of both borrower and guarantor, a bank 
check, income verification and an affordability check using statistical data as well as 
information gathered from the borrower. Buddy Loans said Mr Ts loan followed this process. 
So it didnt agree that the loan was unaffordable and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ts case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ts loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did Buddy Loans then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I think Buddy Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts 
loan application and it gathered enough information to gain a fairly detailed understanding of 
his financial situation. Buddy Loans asked Mr T about his income and expenditure. Buddy 
Loans checked Mr Ts bank statement to verify his income and was satisfied that it could rely 
on him receiving an income of around £1,850. 
After doing its own checks and allowing for the amount Mr T would be spending on credit as 
well as his other regular monthly outgoings Buddy Loans worked out that Mr T should still 
have disposable income of approximately £105. 
Like the investigator, I dont think Buddy Loans made a fair lending decision when it lent 
to Mr T based on the information it had gathered.I say this because when I look through the credit search Buddy Loans carried out 
when Mr T applied for this loan, I can see that it shows Mr T was already having 
serious problems managing his finances. Buddy Loans saw that Mr T had five recent 
defaults (all within the previous 16 months  the most recent just 5 months ago). Three 
of those defaults were on credit card accounts, one was on an unsecured loan and the 
other concerned another short term loan. The combined balances owing on those 
defaulted accounts came to more than £14,700 and it was evident that Mr T was 
making token monthly repayments that ranged between £5 - £20 towards this debt.
Buddy Loans credit checks showed Mr T had a county court judgement registered 
within the last two months  it appeared that Mr T was paying £10 per month towards 
a debt of £1,765. As well as this, his credit history showed three other unsecured loans 
were delinquent  in other words, payments werent being made in full and on time. In 
total, Mr Ts existing credit balance (not counting this loan from Buddy Loans) was 
£16,745  which I think was already a significant amount of money for Mr T given his 
apparent money problems and the financial difficulty that Buddy Loans could see he 
was experiencing.
From looking at its credit checks and the bank statement that Mr T provided to Buddy 
Loans, it could also see that Mr T had recently taken out other expensive short term 
credit  two loans in February 2019 (total £126) and two more in March 2019 (total 
£690).
I dont think Buddy Loans thought carefully enough about what this credit history 
showed about Mr Ts overall financial situation. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mr T wasnt managing to 
repay his debt and he was having serious problems managing his finances whilst at the 
same time he appeared to be relying on new credit more recently obtained. I think 
Buddy Loans ought to have realised that Mr Ts loan application reflected his reliance 
on this sort of expensive credit and it was unlikely that Mr T could repay further credit 
sustainably without experiencing more adverse consequences. I dont think, based on 
what Buddy Loans had in front of it, I can fairly say that Buddy Loans saw enough to 
reasonably be satisfied that Mr T was going to be able to make the loan repayments in 
a sustainable way  particularly bearing in mind that the disposable income that Buddy 
Loans worked out Mr T would have was insufficient for him to be able to make any 
meaningful impact on his outstanding credit debts within a reasonably foreseeable 
period of time, even after some debt consolidation. 
I dont think the fact alone that this expensive loan was taken out to repay other expensive 
credit means it was fairly provided. The total amount payable under this loan agreement was 
£9,525.52 if it ran to term. Overall, I dont think Buddy Loans could reasonably have satisfied 
itself that providing this loan to Mr T wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his 
overall debts and tying him into a high cost credit deal that he had signed up to pay for the 
next five years. 
And given his recent borrowing, there was a real risk that Mr T might use this loan to help 
him meet his immediate need to make loan repayments with the result this loan would simply 
add to his existing debt. So I dont think Buddy Loans shouldve provided this loan. 
As Mr T has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Buddy Loans did wrong. So, I think Buddy Loans needs to put things right.In coming to my decision, I've taken into account that Mr T would like the guarantor to be 
released from any further obligations under the loan. Our investigator didnt say anything 
about this in her view and as far as I can see, she wasnt able to speak to Mr T on the 
phone to talk through what shed said and deal with any queries that Mr T might have. 
Mr T hasnt said whether he is happy with what our investigator has recommended in 
terms of redress. So Id like to take this opportunity to explain that removing the guarantor 
from the loan isnt something that automatically follows just because we agree a loan 
shouldnt have been provided. The guarantors liability ends as soon as the loan is 
repaid. But I understand this loan isnt yet repaid. If the guarantor would like us to 
investigate whether Buddy Loans acted fairly and reasonably when it signed up the 
guarantor to the loan agreement then this is something we can investigate. The guarantor 
should first complain to Buddy Loans so it has a chance to respond to the complaint  
and if the guarantors complaint cant be resolved by agreement then the guarantor can 
bring a complaint to us and we will investigate that as a separate complaint to this one.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr T has confirmed he has nothing further to add. 
I havent heard anything further from Buddy Loans by the deadline for responses.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think Buddy Loans acted unfairly towards Mr T in 
any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr T to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr T shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
With this in mind, Buddy Loans should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr T received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr T made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr T having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr T bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ts credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman