DRN-3300635
The complaint
Ms G complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (CFL) arent taking into account her 
personal circumstances by refusing to write off the balance on her loan. 
What happened
Ms G applied for a loan of £6,000 with CFL in 2020. This was granted and Ms G says her 
financial circumstances were better at that time as she was getting more help from Universal 
Credit and was able to work more overtime. Then in 2021, Ms G says her circumstances 
changed, she was in financial difficulty and also living with a mental health condition. Ms G 
called CFL for help but they initially told her they could only put her account on hold for 30 
days. Ms G says CFL shouldve been aware she was struggling as she had missed 
payments a few months before. Ms G felt CFL werent helping and werent taking her 
personal circumstances into account, so she complained and asked them to write-off the 
balance on her loan. 
CFL responded and referred to the phone call Ms G had with their agent. They said, Ms G 
had asked for additional borrowing of £1,000. They explained theyre unable to provide Ms G 
with this amount as they dont have the system functionality to add funds to an existing loan. 
They disagreed they told Ms G there was nothing they could do to help with her repayments. 
They said the agent Ms G spoke with did explain Ms G could complete an income and 
expenditure assessment so they can understand Ms Gs situation which would then allow 
them to offer support tailored to her. They said, as Ms G didnt want to complete this at the 
time, they were unable to agree to any formal arrangements and offered a 30 day hold on 
the account to provide Ms G with time to seek advice. 
CFL said, based on the information they had, they couldnt agree to write off the debt. CFL 
said they had since received an income and expenditure assessment from Ms G so their 
payments team would contact Ms G to let her know about the tailored support available.     
Our investigator looked into things for Ms G. During our investigation, Ms G provided a letter 
from her doctor which talks about Ms Gs mental health and the impact on her. CFL 
considered this and maintained their position not to write off the debt. Our investigator 
thought it wasnt unfair for CFL to not write off the debt but felt CFL should offer Ms G a 
payment plan where, going forward, the payment comes off the capital with no interest being 
charged. CFL agreed to this but Ms G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Ms G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.   
Communication with CFL
Ill start by saying, Im sorry to hear about Ms Gs personal circumstances. I acknowledge 
there have been some significant events in Ms Gs personal life and I do appreciate it was a 
difficult decision for Ms G to reach out and ask CFL for help. I understand Ms G feels CFL 
didnt offer her any help or support and didnt take her personal circumstances into 
consideration. We do expect lenders to treat consumers, who are experiencing financial 
difficulty or are vulnerable, sympathetically and positively. So, Ive carefully considered      
Ms Gs communications with CFL to see whether they treated her fairly and took into 
account her personal circumstances. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call Ms G made to CFL where she explains shes struggling 
to repay the loan with CFL and also a credit card with another lender. She asks if she can 
have another £1,000 credit to help pay off her credit card balance. The agent explains Ms G 
will need to clear her loan balance first before theyre able to offer any further credit. The 
agent explains they can do an income and expenditure assessment with Ms G to consider 
what support options are available. The agent asks questions about Ms Gs mental health 
condition to understand the impact on her. Ms G explains shes only working minimum hours 
at the moment and not working overtime. Ms G explains she has approached a debt charity 
and they recommended she discuss her mental health condition with CFL. The agent 
explains they could consider placing the account on hold for 30 days depending on what the 
income and expenditure assessment shows, but Ms G explains she knows what her 
disposable income is and a hold on her account wont help. The agent explains if Ms G finds 
herself in a position where she cant make her next repayment then she can contact CFL. 
Ms G then emails CFL to say she didnt feel CFL had helped her during the call. Ms G says 
CFL shouldve been aware she was struggling as she had missed payments a few months 
before. Ms G asks CFL if they would consider writing off the balance on her loan. CFL then 
raise a request to write off the balance and ask Ms G for further information. This includes 
medical evidence of her mental health condition, her employment status and an income and 
expenditure assessment. Ms G responds and explains her mental health had worsened due 
to suffering multiple bereavements in a short space of time. She also completes an income 
and expenditure assessment. Ms G hadnt at this point provided any medical evidence of her 
mental health condition.  
CFL then email Ms G and explain the income and expenditure assessment she provided 
shows she had a monthly disposable income of £111 after her expenses have been paid 
which is enough to cover her loan repayment of £66.07. CFL offer Ms G a reduced payment 
arrangement for three months. They say this will be reported and would show on Ms Gs 
credit file. Ms G felt CFL still werent taking her personal circumstances into account and 
how she was working through the pandemic while living with a mental health condition. CFL 
respond and say they understand Ms G is concerned theyve threatened to report her to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) but her income and expenditure assessment shows 
she has enough disposable income to meet her contractual repayment. They say they did 
however inform Ms G that if she couldnt make the full repayments, she could make reduced 
payments but this would be reported to the CRAs. 
CFL say it wasnt their intention to threaten Ms G but, as a responsible lender, theyre 
required to share accurate information about a customers account with CRAs.
Ms G responds and says shes completed a new income and expenditure assessment and 
this shows she isnt left with a disposable income. Ms G says she feels CFL are 
discriminating against her due to her mental health. CFL respond and explain theyve 
passed the new income and expenditure assessment to their payments team wholl be in 
touch with Ms G to discuss what support theyre able to offer. CFL then email Ms G and explain the income and expenditure assessment shows she has a monthly disposable 
income of £21 and they can reduce payments if a smaller payment will be manageable. 
CFL again explain this will be for three months and the portion of the payment not being paid 
will be added to an arrears balance each month. They say, a lower repayment arrangement 
will be reported to the CRAs. They say, once the arrangement ends, theyll start reporting  
Ms Gs loan dependent on the arrears balance she has at the time. They say an arrears 
balance of £68.08 or above will cause a missed payment report, and an arrears balance of 
£136.16 or above will cause the loan to be reported as in arrears until Ms G is able to bring 
the arrears balance below this amount. They ask Ms G to let them know what lower 
repayment amount would be affordable for her. Ms G responds and says things come up 
each month unexpectedly so she wont have the £21 as disposable income. Ms G says CFL 
are discriminating against her due to her mental health.     
Theres further communication between Ms G and CFL where they ask for medical evidence 
of Ms Gs mental health condition and Ms G explains this will attract a fee from her doctor. 
CFL then offer to cover any costs. Ms G explains this will be £25 and CFL say theyll be 
arranging for this money to be sent to Ms Gs account. CFL also confirm theyve applied a 
hold on Ms Gs account which will stop any further payment reminders being sent while our 
service looks into Ms Gs complaint. Ms G then confirms she has attended her doctor who 
will be sending her a letter for which there will be no charge.  
I understand Ms G found it frustrating and upsetting to complete the income and expenditure 
assessments. Ms G was in financial difficulty so I acknowledge why completing an 
assessment where shes required to detail all income and expenses will be upsetting for her. 
I cant however say CFL have been unreasonable in asking for this. Ms G has mentioned 
financial difficulties and personal circumstances which mean shell struggle to make 
repayments. In these circumstances, we would expect a lender to offer help and support. 
But, a lender generally will only be able to consider what support options are available once 
they get a better understanding of a customers financial circumstances. So, I dont think it 
was unfair for CFL to ask Ms G to complete an income and expenditure assessment as this 
would enable CFL to determine what, if anything, would be an affordable monthly repayment 
amount for Ms G. I think it was right, and appropriate, that CFL took the information from the 
assessment into account when deciding how they can help Ms G.  
I note Ms G feels CFL acted in a threatening manner when they said they would report any 
reduced payment plan to the CRAs. I do understand why this upset Ms G and, particularly 
so, during a time when she was asking CFL for help  but I dont believe it was their intention 
to threaten or upset Ms G. Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual 
information about customers to CRAs. Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete 
and up to date. I believe CFL were explaining the process to Ms G so she could make an 
informed decision on whether to accept their offer of a reduced payment arrangement. 
Looking at the steps CFL have taken, the information Ive seen shows theyve considered 
the information on Ms Gs income and expenditure assessment and offered a reduced 
payment arrangement which includes asking Ms G what repayments she feels would be 
affordable. CFL offered to place a 30 day hold on Ms Gs account to give her some time to 
seek advice. And, CFL say theyve given three months worth of repayment holidays which 
Ms G accepted and were applied to her account. I can see CFL have also, on a number of 
occasions, signposted Ms G to various organisations who might be able to help provide 
further support. So, taking this all into account, I think CFL have been sympathetic to Ms Gs 
personal circumstances and treated her fairly by offering options to help Ms G. I can see Ms G received messages from CFL reminding her to make payments. Ms G says 
this caused her mental health to worsen. CFL agreed to place a hold on Ms G receiving 
these messages but one was still received. CFL apologised and explained this was down to 
their automation system taking a bit more time to apply the change in account status when 
sending scheduled communications. They confirmed the issue had been fixed and I cant 
see Ms G received any further messages over the period CFL agreed to hold off.  
Writing off the debt
I understand Ms G says shes paid off £3,500 of her loan and, given her personal 
circumstances, CFL should write off the outstanding balance. CFL asked for medical 
evidence of Ms Gs mental health condition so they could take this into account when 
deciding whether to write off the balance. 
Ive seen the letter from the doctor and this confirms Ms G is living with a mental health 
condition and she is struggling particularly this year due to a number of significant 
bereavements as well as financial concerns. The doctor says, as one of her lifestyle 
changes, in order to address her mental health, Ms G has decided to cut back on picking up 
extra work shifts and is therefore taking a financial hit. The doctors letter concludes, This 
letter is to request your consideration of extenuating circumstances with regards to clearing 
the rest of her loan debt. I feel this would be tremendously beneficial for [Ms G] and I can 
fully appreciate that she has not come to this conclusion easily herself. I feel that taking this 
worry from her will improve her situation and she will be able to get back on her feet an awful 
lot sooner.     
Its not in dispute that Ms G is struggling with her mental health and financial circumstances. 
And, the doctors letter supports this. CFL have considered the doctors letter but they 
maintain their position that they wont be writing off the debt. CFL say, while the doctors 
letter refers to Ms Gs health worsening over time, they feel its not severe enough to deem it 
appropriate to write off the loan balance. When considering whether CFL should write off the 
debt, I think its important to assess the doctors comments in the context of whether Ms G 
will ever be able to repay the balance, or any part of it, in the future. 
The doctors letter says writing off the debt will be beneficial for Ms G and will help her get 
back on her feet sooner. I havent however seen any evidence which suggests Ms G will 
never be in a position to repay some, or all, of the loan balance back at some point in the 
future. I have to be fair to both parties and directing CFL to write off the debt now means it 
would close the possibility of them trying to recover the loan balance if Ms Gs circumstances 
change. 
While the doctor appears to be suggesting the presence of the loan balance might well mean 
it takes longer for Ms G to get back on her feet, not writing off the debt means CFL are able 
to look into any suitable and appropriate arrangements to recover the debt  or any part of it 
- when Ms G might be in a position to restart any repayments. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms G and I do acknowledge she has been through very upsetting 
events in her personal life. But, given that Ive seen no evidence that Ms G will never be in a 
position to make any further repayments at any point in the future, I cant fairly ask CFL to 
write off the loan balance. 
Steps going forward    
I can see CFL have agreed with our investigators recommendation for them to continue 
supporting Ms G with a repayment plan where any payment Ms G makes comes off the capital  with no interest charged going forward. CFL have confirmed they havent charged 
interest since November 2021 and the total balance outstanding is £2,656.63. Its clear Ms G 
isnt in a position at this moment in time to continue any repayments but I dont think its 
unreasonable for CFL to continue to monitor this and, at the point Ms Gs financial 
circumstances change and she might be able to continue making repayments, CFL should 
consider a repayment plan which is affordable for Ms G. 
I can see CFL say Ms G hasnt made any payments on her loan for three months and, if no 
payment was made in February 2022, they would be issuing a default notice. I havent been 
provided with any information to show whether CFL have issued a default notice. The ICO 
says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a default 
may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer 
is six months behind with their payments. So, given Ms G hasnt made any payments 
towards the loan balance for three months, I cant say its unfair for CFL to take steps to 
issue a default notice. Should CFL decide to default the account sooner rather than later, I 
acknowledge this might be upsetting for Ms G but I cant say it will be wholly detrimental. I 
say this because its clear Ms G cant make any repayments at this present time. So, Ms G 
wont be able to bring the account up to date in the near future, so the sooner the default is 
applied, the sooner it will be removed from Ms Gs credit file. 
Discrimination 
I note Ms G holds strong feelings about what she feels is a lack of help and support from 
CFL. She feels CFL have discriminated against her on the grounds of her mental health. I 
am sorry to hear Ms G feels she has been treated unfairly and that she feels this is down to 
her mental health. Ive carefully considered this point, but I dont agree CFL have treated    
Ms G unfairly or otherwise treated her in a way they wouldnt have treated any other 
customer in the same position. The information shows CFL did take into account Ms Gs 
personal circumstances and offered help and support in line with what I would consider to be 
fair and reasonable for a customer in Ms Gs position.     
Putting things right
CFL have agreed to charge no interest going forward and to offer a repayment plan which is 
affordable for Ms G when shes able to make any repayments, and I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint. Chetwood Financial Limited must take 
the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman