DRN-4135838
Complaint
Mr W has complained about the overdraft charges which AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) added 
to his account. 
Background
Weve already explained to Mr W why we can only look at the charges applied to his account 
from August 2016.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws concerns. She didnt think that AIB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts AIB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a respondent firm 
charges for services is a commercial decision and this isnt something for me to get involved 
with.
That said, while Im not looking at AIB charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr W if it applied these interest, fees and charges to his account in 
circumstances where it was unfair to do so. Mr W says it was unfair for AIB to charge him 
the fees it did here because it ought to have seen they were causing difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether AIB charged Mr W even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it 
ought to have realised this was the case. 
Ive looked through the account statements provided. And I cant see that AIB ought to have 
been aware that Mr W might have been struggling. Mr W didnt really use his overdraft much 
during this period. Furthermore, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over Mr W expenditure, it seems clear to me that he had funds to clear the 
balance.    
I accept that Mr W might have been experiencing financial difficulty earlier than this. But 
even if this is the case, weve already explained why we cant look into matters earlier than 
this. And crucially there isnt anything in Mr Ws account management or the transactions in 
themselves, in the period Ive looked at, which ought to have alerted AIB to potential 
financial difficulty and which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable not to have 
applied the charges here. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr W, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for AIB to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think AIB charged Mr W in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was 
unfair to do so. 
Overall and having thought about everything, I dont think that AIB unfairly charged    Mr W 
in circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty. This means that I dont think that AIB treated Mr W unfairly or that it needs 
to refund any interest, fees and charges. And Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I note that 
AIB has made an offer to refund £281 to Mr W. and I leave it up to Mr W to decide whether 
he wishes to accept this offer.
I appreciate that this decision will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman