DRN-4326899
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) didnt deal fairly or reasonably with claims she made under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in 2008 and it failed to 
carry out proper checks before lending.
The credit provided by BPF was in Mrs Rs sole name. This means shes the complainant 
eligible to bring a complaint to our service and thats why Ive referred to her alone in this 
decision.
Mrs R is represented by a claims management company (that Ill call P) but Ill refer 
(generally) to everything thats been said on her behalf as if Mrs R said it herself, to keep 
things simple.
What happened
In October 2008 Mrs R and Mr R purchased a holiday club membership of Club Heritage
International (CHI) that cost £5,500 with credit provided by BPF (at the point of sale) under a
credit card agreement in Mrs Rs name. Mrs R and Mr R are unhappy with what happened
when they made the purchase and Mrs R wrote to BPF (on 19 August 2020) complaining
that the broker who arranged the credit (which she said was an entity called Heritage
Resorts) wasnt authorised to do so.
BPF rejected the complaint stating that any claim under section 75 CCA would need to have
been raised within six years of the date of sale under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) so it was
out of time. Unhappy with this response, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service,
with the assistance of P. In a letter dated 29 March 2021 P stated that the credit broker (who 
it said was CHI) wasnt authorised, BPF had failed to address this issue and, under section 
75 CCA, BPF is equally responsible with the product supplier for misrepresentations made 
and breach of contract. P also stated that the relationship between Mrs R and BPF was 
unfair under section 140A CCA and BPF failed to carry out proper credit checks before 
lending.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence and she didnt recommend the complaint
should be upheld. She said the credit broker didnt need authorisation by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) as FCA regulation only started in April 2014. And she didnt think
BPF was required to carry out credit checks because Mrs R paid for the purchase using a
credit card, which had a much higher limit. She thought a section 75 claim was likely out of
time under the LA and it wasnt unreasonable for BPF to rely on this when it rejected that
claim. She considered the section 140A claim was probably made in time under the LA but
she wasnt persuaded there was enough evidence to find the relationship between Mrs R
and BPF was unfair.
Mrs R didnt agree. She asked for an ombudsman to review the matter and P sent further
detailed submissions. In summary, P said:-
the investigator failed to address various arguments raised - such as the brokers
authority - and BPF has never explained who the broker was, which is unfair;
there was an obligation for the credit broker to be properly licensed by the Office of
Fair Trading (OFT) in 2008 or the credit agreement is unenforceable;
the investigators analysis of the timescales for bringing the relevant claims is wrong -
Mrs R couldnt have known about the details of the complaint she was making when
she made the purchase, there was nothing to alert her to the facts which could have
started time running for the purpose of limitation and she couldnt have found this out
by the exercise of reasonable diligence until much later;
Mrs R had an ongoing liability for maintenance fees and she continued to pay these
until 2018, which is not only unfair but also inconsistent with her being aware of
misrepresentations made at the outset;
this service deals with complaints, not causes of action, our jurisdiction is
inquisitorial not adversarial and there is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman 
can operate; and
theres no material difference between a loan and the sort of running account credit
provided by BPF as regards the ombudsmans decision making - as both types of
credit are governed by the CCA.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I considered additional 
issues. I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings in the circumstances 
and respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision so I issued a provisional 
decision on 11 August 2023. Ive set out what I decided provisionally (and why) below (in 
italics)  this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence
and the wider circumstances.
Mrs Rs representatives have made detailed submissions which include references to
various regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of
law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) good industry practice at the relevant time, when I make my decision. And I
want to assure the parties, if I dont address every single point thats been raised, its not
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to
us but Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
The scope of the complaint
The original complaint letter (that Mrs R sent to BPF in August 2020) refers to the
question of the credit brokers authority only. BPFs response (in March 2021) doesnt
address that issue directly but it does reject any claim made under section 75 CCA, on the
grounds this was made too late under the LA. And Im satisfied that BPF had the chance to
consider both the section 75 and the unauthorised broker claims before this matter was
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
I think the letter P sent near the end of March 2021 seeks to expand the complaint - as this 
includes claims of an unfair relationship under section 140A CCA and unaffordable lending. 
This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been made to 
the relevant financial business first - so the business has the change to investigate and respond. I cant see that the section 140A claim or the affordability issue were raised with 
BPF before Mrs R brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I note our 
investigator has included these wider issues in her view - so BPF has had some time to 
consider them.
BPF has objected to us looking at the complaint  but it did so on the grounds this was 
raised too late under our rules, not because it didnt have the opportunity to deal with every 
issue. A different investigator wrote to BPF to explain why she thought the complaint falls 
within our jurisdiction and asked if BPF had any further objections. BPF said it doesnt object 
to this service looking at the complaint about the section 75 claim or the brokers
authority but didnt comment further on the remaining issues - or explain why (if thats still
the case) it objects to this service considering those elements.
For the reasons Ive set out below in more detail, I dont think Mrs Rs complaints were
brought to this service too late. Im satisfied that BPF had the chance to consider the
additional issues, raised after the investigator issued her view. And, given the age of this
matter, I think its likely to be in everyones interests if I deal with the everything in this
decision. If either party disagrees, its open to them to make further submissions in response
to this provisional decision.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
BPF says Mrs R was out of time to raise her complaints with this service because shes
complaining about events that took place in 2008 and it was more than six years after that
before she brought the matter to this service, in March 2021. BPF has told us it doesnt
object to us looking into Mrs Rs complaint about her section 75 claim and the authority of
the credit broker, so I only need to consider whether her complaint about the additional 
issues comes within our jurisdiction.
The rules about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook.
These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mrs R is
complaining about exactly. I think she considers BPF extended credit to her irresponsibly
and the acts and omissions of the product supplier resulted in an unfair relationship between
her and BPF - which amounts to a claim under section 140A of the CCA. Having considered
the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of took place at the point of sale in
2008 and the fairness of the debtor-credit relationship whilst the credit was ongoing. I cant
reasonably conclude that this part of Mrs Rs complaint was brought to us within the six-year
period set out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So Ive gone on to consider
the second limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mrs R knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that
she had cause for complaint - to see if this extends the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b).
Mrs Rs representatives suggest that she first became aware she had cause for complaint
when she sought professional advice, in or around 2020. From the evidence Ive got, taking
into account the acts and omissions complained about, I think Mrs R should reasonably have
known that something might have gone wrong before that but I accept this isnt the same as
Mrs R knowing that she had cause for complaint against BPF. And, whilst Mrs R may have
known that something might have gone wrong with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable
to assume that she would have realised this might have made the relationship between herand BPF unfair or that she had grounds to complain about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mr R would have needed to know there was a problem that
caused her to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). On the current
evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs R knew (or ought to have known) that she had cause
for complaint against BPF before she sought advice in 2020. Im satisfied she brought her
complaint to us within three years of that and Im minded to find this part of the complaint
comes within our jurisdiction.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time under the LA?
Our investigator thinks that any right Mrs R has to bring a claim under section 75 is probably
out of time under the LA. If thats correct, I consider its something BPF could reasonably
take into account when it declined this claim. I should make it clear however that Im not
deciding if any right that Mrs R may have to bring any claim has expired under the LA. Thats
a matter for the courts. In this decision, Im considering whether BPF should reasonably
have accepted Mrs Rs claims.
Mrs R says misrepresentations were made at the point of sale and, essentially, she wouldnt
have bought the timeshare using credit provided by BPF if that hadnt happened. I think
sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for
damages under section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to
causes of action for sums recoverable under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose
a limitation period of six years from the date a cause of action accrues  which is the point in
time that everything needed to make a legal claim occurred.
Like the investigator, I think the date on which the cause of action accrued here will be the
same as the date upon which the misrepresentations alleged under section 75 became
actionable. And thats the date the damage is suffered - as any relevant damage would have
been incurred when Mrs R bought the timeshare and made the payment on her credit card.
Among other things, it was at this stage she paid for the benefits which she says were
misrepresented and thereby incurred any financial loss. It follows I think that Mrs R would
have needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date of the
timeshare transaction itself, in 2008.
Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since that date before Mrs R contacted
BPF in August 2020. I think the period within which she had to bring an action under section
75 had likely run out by this point. I dont think its unreasonable for BPF to take that into
account in this situation. And I cant fairly find it was unreasonable of BPF to decline Mrs Rs
section 75 claim.
Was the claim under s.140A CCA brought in time under the LA?
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I
think this is relevant law so I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mrs R had to bring a section 140A claim is six
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. As this sort of claim is about the
fairness of the relationship, its possible to argue thats likely to be when the debtor-creditor
relationship ended - in other words when the debt associated with the purchase was repaid.
BPF has confirmed that the credit here was repaid on 20 May 2009. P seems to agree and I
think this date is probably right - because the interest free BNPL period was due to end
around that time and its reasonable to assume that Mrs R would have wanted to repay what
she owed before interest was applied.In light of the above, I think its arguable time started running, for the purpose of any section
140A claim, in May 2009 - so Mrs R would have needed to bring any relevant claim no later
than May 2015. Even if Im wrong about that however, BPFs internal records show that the
credit account closed on 26 January 2013. Im satisfied this brought the relationship between
Mrs R and BPF to an end and shed need to raise any relevant claim by January 2019 at the
latest. Mrs R didnt raise her s140A claim until after that. And Im minded to find any right she
had to bring such a claim had likely expired under the time limits set under the LA.
P has referred to Mrs Rs liability for maintenance fees, which it says continued long after
2013 when the credit account closed and rendered the relationship between Mrs R and BPF
unfair. P has supplied copy correspondence relating to maintenance charges levied as
recently as 2018. However I think these fees probably relate to a different membership that
Mrs R and Mr R acquired in 2012. That purchase was funded by a different lender and the
relevant (2012) purchase application states that it supersedes the 2008 agreement. Ive
seen nothing to show that Mrs R had any ongoing liabilities arising out of the 2008 purchase
funded by BPF after the related credit agreement ended. And I dont think a court would be
likely to consider any liability for charges arising out of the later agreement means the
relationship between Mrs R and BPF was unfair.
BPF didnt consider Mrs Rs section 140A claim specifically (as Ive explained above) but I
think its unlikely to have been upheld if BPF had done so. I cant fairly find it would be
unreasonable for BPF to rely on the LA in these circumstances and Im not presently
persuaded that I can reasonably require BPF to do anything further in this regard.
Authority of the credit broker
P says the credit agreement that Mrs R entered into with BPF is unenforceable because it
was arranged by an unauthorised and unidentified broker. The name of the credit broker isnt
set out specifically in the credit agreement so we asked BPF for a bit more information about
that. BPF says Heritage Resorts was the retailer and it held the requisite licence at the time
 under a number which the investigator has supplied to P separately. I have no reason to
question this, from the information Ive got. And, as Ive explained in more detail below, it
seems to be in line with Mrs R and Mr Rs own evidence that they were told at all times, that
it was Heritage who were making the arrangements for them, in particular where the loan
was concerned.
The retailer identified in the credit agreement is Heritage Resorts. On the current evidence,
I think this probably refers to Heritage Resort Sales Limited (HRSL)  the company named
in the purchase application. And, based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded theres
enough evidence to reasonably find the credit broker wasnt authorised to arrange the credit
that BPF provided to Mrs R in October 2008.
Arguments on limitation
A number of arguments have been raised in relation to limitation. I dont accept that they all
apply. P makes reference, for example, to the date when Mrs R had the knowledge required
to bring her complaint. I think this may relate to the rules of our service  which Ive referred
to above. These rules apply to regulated complaint handling and activities and they set out
the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business  which, in this
case, is Mrs Rs complaint that BPF unfairly turned down her claims. Thats the complaint Im
considering in this decision and, as Ive explained, Im not persuaded her complaint was
brought too late under our rules.
I think its reasonable to take the operation of the LA into account when Im deciding if BPF
provided a fair and reasonable response to Mrs Rs claims - thats why Ive referred to the LA
in this decision. The LA doesnt have a provision allowing any claim to be brought within
three years of a claimant realising they could start a legal action. I accept it does howeverprovide that time limits may be extended in some situations and Ive given some thought to
this below.
Section 14A LA, for example, allows for a second period in which a claim for negligence can
be made in certain circumstances. For section 14A to apply to Mrs Rs claims, BPF would
need to owe her a duty of care. Having considered what happened here carefully, Im not
persuaded that such a duty arose - or advice was provided  that could give rise to a claim
to which section 14A could apply.
Ive also considered section 32 LA. This relates to the extension of time for starting an action
if fraud, mistake or deliberate concealment are found - or could with reasonable diligence
have been discovered. But Im not persuaded this assists Mrs R in these particular
circumstances either.
P suggests that Mrs R has more time to bring her section 140A claim under section 32
because the identity of the credit intermediary was concealed. P states that Heritage
Resorts seems to be the nominal term used to describe resorts within the Heritage Group
and this cannot, on its own, be the actual credit intermediary. Somewhat confusingly
however, P goes on to say (in an email in May 2023) it was Heritage Resorts that
introduced the possibility of finance and Mrs R and Mr R were told at all times, that it was
Heritage who were making the arrangements for them, in particular where the loan was
concerned.
As Ive explained above (under the heading authority of the credit broker) BPF told us
Heritage arranged the credit here and it was duly authorised to do so. I have no reason to
question that on the current evidence. And, given Mrs R and Mr R have acknowledged (via
P) that they were told Heritage was making the loan arrangements, I cant reasonably
conclude that this information was concealed from them.
In light of my provisional findings, Im not persuaded that the primary time limits under the LA
referred to above can be extended in these circumstances. I appreciate Mrs R may say she
didnt know about the relevant time limits but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as
grounds for prolonging the limitation period.
Irresponsible lending
P also states that BPF failed to undertake proper checks before lending. I dont have much
information about the decision to provide Mrs R with this credit but, even if I were to accept
that BPF failed in its obligations, Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for
Mrs R at the relevant time. Mrs R hasnt supplied any evidence to persuade me thats likely. 
Ive seen nothing to show that there were any affordability issues - such as late or missed 
payments or other financial problems. I can see she repaid the borrowing within the BNPL 
six month period, which doesnt suggest there were any such issues. And, on the current 
evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs Rs complaint can be upheld on these grounds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any new
comments or evidence that I hadnt seen before by 25 August 2023 and Id make my final
decision after that.
Both parties have now responded. Mrs Rs representatives told us she had nothing further to 
add. BPF accepts most of my provisional findings but it disagrees with my provisional conclusions under the heading jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. BPF says 
(in summary) Mrs R ought reasonably to have been aware that she had cause to complain  
when BPF accepted the loan application - not when she was advised that she could bring 
her complaint against BPF. She knew that BPF was the loan provider and the loan 
agreement details how to make a complaint to BPF so she would have understood she could 
bring a complaint about the loan to BPF from the outset.
I have considered BPFs comments and reviewed all of the available evidence. Nothing 
thats been said has persuaded me to change my mind. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional findings, Im not persuaded that Mrs R knew (or ought to have known) that she 
had cause for complaint against BPF before she sought advice in 2020. And I remain of the 
view there arent enough fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman