DRN-3684225
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as 
Likely Loans, lent to him three times irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Oakbrook, here is a brief loan table: 
Loan Taken Amount Repayment terms 
and raterepaid
1 12 December 2019 £500 12 x £53.25 24 July 2020  
refinanced into 
loan 2
2 24 July 2020 £793.85 18 x £66.26 4 May 2021 
refinanced into 
loan 3
3 4 May 2021 £1,072.39 24 x £70.27 -
Oakbrook has explained in detail that it verified Mr Ps income and it did carry out a credit 
search but it cannot send to us a document in a report from that date. So, it has sent to us 
two credit reports from a specific credit reference agency (CRA) dated from the time of the 
complaint in January 2022. That, it says, dovetails with its own findings about Mr Ps credit 
situation at the time of the loans from which it analysed information using its own systems. 
It seems that during the Oakbrook investigation Mr Ps representatives sent to it copies of 
bank statements covering the periods of each loan application. Those have been sent on to 
us. For living costs, Oakbrook estimated Mr Ps outgoings using Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data. This ONS estimate includes an estimate for rent/mortgage. 
After Oakbrook had issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it did not uphold Mr Ps 
complaint, it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint and thought that Oakbrook had carried out proportionate checks and 
so did not think that Oakbrook needed to do anything to put things right for Mr P. Mr P 
disagreed and so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Oakbrook completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr P  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Oakbrook did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Oakbrook to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr P. In practice this meant that Oakbrook had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oakbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loan 1
Oakbrooks submissions to us includes some more detail of what it had discovered about 
Mr Ps credit/debt situation was. It was summarised to us as follows: 
Account Type Balance At Time Of Application
Water £0.00
Mail Order £0.00
Unsecured loan (personal loans etc) £91.00
Unsecured loan (personal loans etc) £16.00
Unsecured loan (personal loans etc) £5,311.00*
Unsecured loan (personal loans etc) £112.00
Multi Communications £0.00
Current accounts £348.00
Communications £0.00
Unsecured loan (personal loans etc) £4.00
Credit card/Store card £499.00Total £6,381.00
*this was with a bank 
And Oakbrook calculated that Mr Ps total expenditure including the Oakbrook loan 
repayment figure for loan 1 was going to be £1,204.51 per month. So according to 
Oakbrook, Mr P would have had £450 a month left over. 
For a £500 loan and in the circumstances where Mr P was a new customer then I think that 
the checks it carried out were proportionate and so I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about 
this loan. 
Loan 2
Loan 2 was a top-up loan, meaning Mr P was applying for a further amount before his first 
12 month contract had ended. It was about 7 months into the loan 1 contract (24 July 2020) 
and he used some of the principal borrowed on loan 2 to repay loan 1.
The analysis I have been provided with of Mr Ps debt and credit account situation was in a 
similar format to the debt table I duplicated for loan 1. So, I do not set it out again and I can 
see that Mr Ps debt level was about the same and the number of accounts he had open had 
reduced from 11 to 9. 
Oakbrook had increased what it considered to be his living expenses and had recorded that 
his active debt payments figure had increased from £360 a month to £411 a month. All 
these calculations translated into the position where Oakbrook had a reduced figure of £246 
of money left over after all items had been paid off including his Oakbrook loan 2. And so, it 
considered that the loan was affordable, but I have noted that the disposable income margin 
had reduced. 
However, I do not consider that Oakbrook did anything wrong and the information it used did 
not reveal anything likely to have caused it a concern about Mr Ps financial situation. So, 
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan 2. 
Loan 3
For loan 3 the same analysis was undertaken and the same sort of records have been 
provided to me. The application was for £600 and for loan 2 to be refinanced into loan 3.
Ordinarily Id consider that for a third loan in relative quick succession where loan 3 would 
have been the second top-up loan and where the previous loan was paid off by the new 
loan, to have been a concern. But the research Oakbrook had carried out showed that 
Mr Ps overall debt situation had reduced remarkably to around £1,100 (from around £6,700 
for loan 2). And his overall active debt repayments figure was down to £81 a month from 
£411 a month. Mr Ps number of active credit accounts which were open had reduced to 
four. 
Oakbrook did choose to increase his living costs figure and yet with such a reduced overall 
credit commitment it calculated that Mr P was able to afford the £70 a month for 24 months 
and so it approved his loan application.
Overall, I am satisfied that Oakbrook carried out proportionate checks and satisfactorily 
calculated that Mr P was able to afford this and all the loans.
Oakbrook had been sent  as part of the complaint  copies of Mr Ps bank account 
statements for the period surrounding his applications. And Oakbrook have submitted to us, 
which I agree with, that Mr Ps income increased by the time he was applying for loan 3. And that he was not on furlough due to the Covid-19 pandemic special arrangements for loan 1 
which is what he had maintained. Because Loan 1 pre-dated the start of the furlough 
schemes. And it further confirmed that Mr P had never contacted it to inform it of any 
concern surrounding his employment and /or that he was in any financial difficulties. 
I have reviewed the bank statements to which Oakbrook refers and I can see that Mr P was 
taking some high cost instalment credit loans when he applied for loan 1 but this appears to 
have been listed in the analysis carried out by Oakbrook (see the debt table duplicated 
above) and so I think it was aware of those. They were not for high sums. And that use of 
that other lending company reduced over the lending relationship. 
I reviewed the bank statements for April 2021 to May 2021 as that was the period leading up 
to loan 3. If I did consider that Oakbrook ought to have carried out further checks then one 
way to have done that would have been for Oakbrook to review Mr Ps bank statements. And 
as I have copies for that period, then it seemed fair to review them. 
I can see that Mr Ps salary had increased significantly to about £2,248 a month. I have seen 
reference to one other high cost lender. There was credit from a credit union on 7 April 2021 
for £1,499. Most of that money seemed to be paid out to another person a few days later. 
And credit unions are a different type of lender. Mr P does seem to be paying to that other 
person quite a lot each month. It looks to have been regular and she was an individual  not 
a lender. All other transactions seemed usual household spending. 
But in the end, the loan 3 sum was only for £600, Mr P had a good repayment record with 
Oakbrook for the previous two loans, his salary had increased and Oakbrooks research on 
his credit commitment showed to it that it had changed in nature and had reduced.
In the circumstances I do not consider that Oakbrook lent irresponsibly. 
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman