DRN-3011882
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of, T, a charity, complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim 
under Ts business protection insurance policy.
What happened
T has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mr S made a claim on that
policy to cover Ts losses arising out of the closure of its physical shop from March 2020 due 
to the national Government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid-19. 
Covea declined the claim because it said T didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Mr S didnt agree. He said this led to a significant loss of revenue for T and that Ts 
policy covered it for infectious or contagious disease as well as a list of specific diseases 
such as SARS and that Covid-19 is a form of SARS. Because of this he felt the policy should 
be interpreted in Ts favour.
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld.
He said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation T found
itself in. Mr S doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on T. But for
the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain
why.
The type of cover T is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks.
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The
starting point is to consider the specific policy T took out. As such Ive considered every
aspect of the policy it holds with Covea to determine whether there are any sections that
would require Covea to meet the claim like the one Mr S is making.
Mr S has told us that T wasnt able to operate its physical shop from March 2020 due to the 
government-imposed lockdown. The policy provides cover for several things, including 
infectious diseases, public emergency, denial of access and damage. Ive considered those 
sections below.
Infectious Diseases
The Covid-19 pandemic was intended to be controlled by way of a Government-imposed
lockdown. Mr S feels that this section of Ts policy offers cover in these circumstances. Ive
considered what hes said about this and though I accept this section offers cover in certain
circumstances, I dont believe any of those apply here.
Under this section the policy covers:
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local
authority as a result of any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by 
any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
The term Disease is defined as:
 any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis, acute 
infectious hepatitis, acute meningitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, botulism, brucellosis, 
cholera, diphtheria, enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid), food poisoning, haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome(HUS), infectious bloody diarrhoea, invasive group A streptococcal 
disease, legionellosis, leprosy, malaria, measles, meningococcal septicaemia, mumps, 
plague, rabies, rubella, SARS, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhus, viral 
haemorrhagic fever (VHP), whooping cough and yellow fever.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy
provides T with cover in the current circumstances, as Covid-19 isnt one of the specified
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Covea
might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and
updated on a Government defined list. Ts policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are
covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover
for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and
effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses.
I know that Mr S feels strongly that Ts claim should be covered because the policy covers
SARS as a species. He says Covid-19 is caused by the same species. Hes made a number
of detailed submissions which he feels supports this. He also says SARS is broadly defined
so should cover any disease caused by SARS-associated coronavirus.
SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), is a viral respiratory illness caused by the
SARS-associated coronavirus, SARS-CoV. In this decision, when I refer to SARS I am
referring to the disease. Covid-19 is a disease caused by another coronavirus, SARS-CoV-
2. Both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses. Mr Ss submissions are 
essentially that that they are caused by different viruses within a species. I agree that SARS 
is a type of coronavirus and that both are viral infections. But I dont think that means the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering Covid-19.
The insuring clause is headed Infectious Diseases and covers T for any human 
infectious or contagious Disease manifested by any person within a specified area. 
Disease is a defined term and means any of a list of diseases. As a result, my view is 
that the repeated references to diseases, rather than causative agents or species, means 
that the policy is intended to cover diseases. The other items in the list are all diseases or 
conditions, which supports this view. And as Mr S accepts, SARS and Covid-19 are 
separate diseases.
Whilst the policy does not define what SARS is, it does have a specific medical 
classification and is an infectious disease in its own right. SARS also appears as a 
specified disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases as distinct from Covid-19. 
This is confirmed by the World Health Organisation who acknowledged that whilst the two 
illnesses were related, they were different. Because of this I dont agree that Covid-19 can be treated as SARS for the purposes of attracting cover under the policy terms. Rather I 
think the term SARS used in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised 
medical illness. And whilst I appreciate that the diseases are part of the same family, I 
think to interpret them interchangeably would render the list Covea has set out, 
redundant.
The fact that SARS is listed separately and that Covid-19 is different in its make up is, in 
my view, enough for me to determine that Covid-19 does not fall within this term in the 
policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to treat the policy as 
if it did. 
This position is also supported by recent case law. In Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers 
Insurance Company Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 the Judge was presented with an argument 
that Covid-19 fell under various other diseases listed in an insurance policy. It was held 
that the key to cover was the disease itself and not how it was brought about.
For the avoidance of doubt, theres nothing in the make-up of the terms Ive quoted that 
leads me to conclude they should be construed any differently. And all in all, although I 
agree that T had to close its physical shop due to a Government order and that there may 
well have been a case of Covid-19 either at the insured premises or within 25 miles of it, I 
dont think the Infectious Diseases section of the policy covers his claim because Covid- 
19 does not fall within the definition of Diseases set out by the policy.
Public Emergency
The policy also covers the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an 
emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which 
prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises; excluding
4) infectious or contagious diseases.
Covea have relied on the infectious or contagious disease exclusion to turn down cover 
under this section of the policy. 
Policy terms are defined with reference to a capital letter at the start of the word, except 
otherwise stated. In the Loss of Income section of the policy the word Disease is defined 
as I have noted under my paragraph headed Infectious Diseases above. Whereas the 
exclusion applicable in this section of the policy isnt capitalised. So, it doesnt limit cover in 
the same way that defined Disease does. Because of this I dont think it can be read to 
exclude Covid-19 in the same way the defined list defining Disease does in the previous 
section of the policy.
This position was confirmed in the FCAs test case on an issue. That section of the 
judgment wasnt subject to appeal. On 15 September 2020 Lord Justice Flaux said (at 
paragraph 376 of the judgment):
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local authority, 
and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an infectious 
disease. Accordingly, the [exclusion] applies and there is no cover under [t is policy] 
wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the premises.Denial of Access and Damage
Ive also thought about whether the business interruption and denial of access sections of 
the policy apply here but I dont think they do.
The business interruption section only responds when there has been an Incident as 
defined, caused by specified risks under the Material Damage section of the policy. 
Incident is defined as an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business 
carried on at the Premises. And Damage means physical loss or destruction of or 
damage to property. Equally, the Denial of Access section of the policy requires there to be 
Damage, as defined, in the vicinity of the business premises which prevents or hinders the 
use of or access to the Premises before a claim can be considered. Nothing in those 
sections extend to damage caused to the business itself by way of Disease as defined by 
the policy, a disease such as Covid-19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they 
refer to physical damage. Because of Because of that I cant say either of these sections 
would respond in the circumstances of Ts claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S on behalf of 
T to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman