DRN-3092362
The complaint
Mrs G is complaining MBNA Limited hasnt refunded losses she incurred after a flight 
provider went into liquidation. She brings the claim under S75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(S75).
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs G entered into contract with a third party  who I shall refer to as T  to buy 
some flights. She bought flights for six people  herself, her husband, her three children and 
her mother-in law. The flights were one-way tickets to travel in November 2019. The total 
cost of the flights was £1,575.94. She paid for the flights on her MBNA credit card.
In September 2019 T went into liquidation and the flights Mrs G bought were cancelled. 
Mrs G says she had no choice but to buy replacement flights for her and all passengers with 
a different airline, because her outbound flight and hotel were non-cancellable contracts. The 
total cost of the replacement flights was £4,348.55.
Mrs G later contacted MBNA and asked it to refund the amount she paid to T. She also 
wanted it to refund the extra shed paid for the replacement flights. MBNA successfully 
processed a chargeback claim and Mrs G received back the £1,575.94 shed paid to T. But 
MBNA said the terms and conditions of the contract excluded any liability for consequential 
losses as a result of T not providing the flight. So it said it didnt have to refund what Mrs G 
paid for the replacement flights. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
Mrs G paid for the flights T was supposed to provide on her MBNA credit card. S75 sets out 
that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, MBNA can be jointly liable for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by T.  
I think there are three things for me to consider in this decision:
1. Is MBNA liable for Ts breach of contract under S75; if so 
2. Is it liable for her consequential losses; and
3. If it is liable for her consequential losses, does it have to refund everything Mrs G paid?
I shall consider each point separately.
Is MBNA liable for Ts breach of contract under S75?
As I said above, in order for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied  
one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between the parties. 
In essence, the key here is that its the debtor who is entitled to make a claim against the 
creditor, and their claim against the creditor is the same as their claim against the supplier. 
So, if the debtor doesnt have a claim themselves against the supplier, they cant hold the 
creditor liable for any breach of contract with the supplier.
Mrs G paid for the flights with her MBNA credit card, so there is a contractual relationship 
between her, MBNA and T. But there were six parties on the booking. Mrs G paid for all the 
flights herself and the booking is in her name. In doing so Mrs G entered into a contract with 
T under which T promised to fly her and her travelling party. Mrs G was considered the lead 
passenger and effectively acted as an agent for all the travelling passengers in arranging 
the flights with T. But I understand that T provides each passenger with their own ticket 
which means they have their own individual contract with T  their Conditions of Carriage. 
And its these contracts that T has breached. So I need to consider whether MBNA is liable 
for losses arising from all the contracts.
While there are effectively six separate contracts of carriage, Mrs G is only a contracting 
party on one. However, I think Mrs G can still claim under S75 if she derived a joint benefit 
from the contract or the contracting party is considered a dependant. Where a person makes 
a contract on behalf of those they are financially interdependent with, they have a financial 
interest in the success of the contract, and they can (in the event of a breach) claim for 
losses experienced by those other individuals.
Given this, I think MBNA is liable for losses arising from the contracts with her, her husband 
and children. But I dont think I can say that MBNA is liable for losses arising from her 
mother-in-laws ticket and Ill explain why. As I said above, in considering whether MBNA 
has a liability for Ts breach of contract, I need to think whether the debtor  Mrs G  would 
have a right to claim against T in regards to this ticket. But, as she was not a party to that 
particular contract I dont think she would have a right to claim  that right would rest with her 
mother-in-law. 
Does the contract exclude liability for consequential losses? 
Theres no dispute T has breached the terms of the contract with all passengers as it 
cancelled the flight. Clause 26.5 of the contract says T will arrange an alternative flight for 
Mrs G, but it further says she may be entitled to a refund if she didnt want the alternative 
arrangements. Further to this Clause 28.5 says that, where it cancels the flight, it will refund 
the cost of the ticket. In this case, as T had gone into liquidation, it didnt provide a 
replacement flight or a refund of the cost of the ticket.  
MBNA believes the remedies Mrs G is entitled to under these two clauses is the limit to Ts 
liability. And it says, as Mrs G has already received the cost of the flights back through her 
chargeback claim, it doesnt have anything further to pay under S75. The issue I need to 
consider now is whether I think it was fair for MBNA to say the terms of the contract excludes 
liability for consequential losses.
I think the key consideration here is to think about the normal principles of contractual 
interpretation. Im aware that the principles of contractual interpretation were helpfully set out 
and summarised in The Ocean Neptune [2018] EWHC 163 (Comm)  which is further 
endorsed in Chitty on Contracts at 15-052. This sets out that:
The court must consider the language used and ascertain what a reasonable person, that is a person who has all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to the parties in the situation in which they were at the time of the contract, would 
have understood the parties to have meant. The court must consider the contract as a whole 
and, depending on the nature, formality and quality of drafting of the contract, give more or 
less weight to elements of the wider context in reaching its view as to the objective meaning 
of the language used. If there are two possible constructions, the court is entitled to prefer 
the construction which is consistent with business common sense and to reject the other.
Ive also had consideration to the comments of Briggs LJ in Nobahar-Cookson v The Hut 
Group [2016] EWCA Civ 128 [18-19] where he said:
Ambiguity in an exclusion clause may have to be resolved by a narrow construction 
because an exclusion clause cuts down or detracts from the ambit of some important 
obligation in a contract, or a remedy conferred by the general law such as (in the present 
case) an obligation to give effect to a contractual warranty by paying compensation for 
breach of it. The parties are not lightly to be taken to have intended to cut down the 
remedies which the law provides for breach of important contractual obligations without 
using clear words having that effect.
Ive particularly taken note that the above sets out a requirement that a contracting party 
must use clear words when seeking to reduce or remove liability for losses that would 
ordinarily be recoverable under standard contract law. Further to this, I think an additional 
crux of this matter that I have to decide is whether the intention of the contract was clear and 
what a reasonable person would have understood what the contract was intended to say. 
There are a number of clauses in the contract that need to be considered here. As a starting 
point Clause 26.5 sets out what T offered to do where it cancels the flight  namely to 
provide an alternative flight  and explains what the customer must do to obtain a refund. 
And, as I said above, Clause 28.5 further sets out that T is contractually required to provide 
a refund of the cost of the ticket where it cancels a flight.
In my opinion, I think the purposes of Clauses 26.5 and 28.5 are clear  insomuch as setting 
out what Ts responsibilities are when it cancels a flight and explains what Mrs G needs to 
do to claim a refund. However, I think Clause 33, by contrast, serves the opposite purpose. 
This says: 
Our liability to you shall be limited to the rights and remedies set out in these Conditions of 
Carriage and we will have no further liability to you unless otherwise provided by Regulation 
2027/97, the Warsaw Convention or the Montreal Convention (as applicable).
On the face of it, it would be possible to read the above clause that T has sought to limit its 
liability as to what MBNA believes  namely to be required to provide an alternative flight or 
a refund of the cost of the flight and nothing further. But I think this also needs to be read 
alongside clauses 53 and 57.2 of the conditions of carriage. These set out:
Our [Ts] liability to you 
53.1 The liability of each carrier involved in your journey will be determined by applicable 
law and the carriers Conditions of carrier. Applicable law comprises Regulation 
2027/97, the Convention and/or local law in individual countries.
57.2 Except as may be specifically provided otherwise in these Conditions of Carriage or 
by applicable laws, we will be liable to you only for recoverable compensatory 
damages for proven losses.I think its clear that Clauses 53 and 57 are intended to be read together and Clause 53 
expressly accepts that T can be liable under the local law of individual countries  i.e. 
under English Law in this case. And I think its important to note that normal English contract 
law allows Mrs G to claim for damages arising from a breach of contract  including her right 
to recover damages to compensate her for proven, recoverable consequential losses. I think 
this is effectively acknowledged by Clause 57.2 when read in its full context and together 
with the applicable principles of contractual interpretation.
Im particularly conscious that both clauses 26.5 and 28.5 are silent on whether Ts 
responsibilities in the event of it cancelling a flight is limited to the remedies expressly set out 
in these clauses  i.e. it doesnt say that a refund of the cost of the ticket is Ts sole 
responsibility in the event of it cancelling the flight. I think it would go against the principles of 
contractual interpretation if it was considered that this meant Mrs G was excluded from a 
fundamental right  i.e. to be entitled to claim for consequential losses owing to Ts breach of 
contract. And given what I said above in regard to previous court rulings, where a business 
wishes to exclude such a right, it must use clear words to that effect. Im not persuaded T 
has done so  if it has in fact used any words to exclude this at all.
With this in mind, Ive thought about the language in clause 57.2 which I think potentially 
adds a further layer of compensation and effectively raises the possibility that the refund is 
only the starting point, as I think clause 57.2 could be interpreted to say its contractually 
confirming Mrs Gs right to common-law damages. This would mean, if she has suffered 
recoverable compensatory damages for proven losses which exceeds the value of the 
refund, then potentially these losses are also recoverable as an additional remedy for the 
breach of contract.
MBNA disputes this interpretation of clause 57.2 as it maintains the conditions of carriage 
limits liability under the contract to the cost of the ticket  i.e. it doesnt set out any additional 
right or remedy to the refund. I accept that its possible an alternative interpretation of clause 
57.2 is that it doesnt give a further compensatory right, but it acts as a further limit to 
compensation  namely the total amount that Mrs G can claim in damages is limited to items 
that are both recoverable in law and proven.
I think both interpretations are potentially a reasonable way of considering the effective 
operation of the clause. So to consider this matter further, I think its important to ascertain 
what liability T accepts under Clauses 26.5, 28.5, 53 and 57.2 respective, because, as I said 
above, Clause 33 seems to seek to limit Ts obligations to Mrs G.
As I said above, Clauses 26.5 and 28.5 are silent as to whether Ts liability to Mrs G in the 
event of cancellation doesnt extend further to what was set out in these clauses  i.e. to 
provide an alternative flight or a refund. There isnt anything in these clauses to say that T 
wont be liable for any additional costs if Mrs G goes ahead and arranges alternative flights 
herself. I dont think such an exclusion can be implied into the contract  the contract needed 
to expressly set out these losses werent covered if T intended to do so.
Ive thought about MBNAs assertion that Clauses 33 and 57.2 does the above  i.e. to limit 
Ts liability. But, as I said, I think there are two reasonable ways of interpreting the intention 
of Clause 57.2. I think normal contractual principles favour the interpretation that the clauses 
gives further rights to Mrs G for the following reasons:
As I said above, I think Clauses 53 and 57 are intended to be read together  they both 
fall under the contract heading of our liability to you. Clause 57.2 is part of a series of 
clauses that sets out Ts liability to Mrs G. So I think its reasonable to think, considering 
the purpose of the surrounding terms, the clause should acknowledge that T may bear 
liability for compensatory damages, rather than being read purely as limiting the amount of liability under other clauses.  
I think its reasonable to read Clause 57.2 as an acknowledgement of liability under the 
general local law, but only for compensatory damages for proven losses. And I think 
reading it this way the clause fulfils two functions: (1) allows Mrs G to claim for 
compensatory damages under local law for proven losses; and (2) to exclude punitive or 
exemplary damages, which arent compensatory in nature and dont necessarily require 
proof of any loss.
As I set out above, its a standard principle of contractual interpretation that parties need 
to use clear words if they intend to cut down valuable consumer rights under the general 
law. I dont think Clause 57.2 does so. So, it follows, that I dont think it can be read as 
excluding such damages. 
While I think the crux of this matter turns on the principles of contract interpretation, I also 
think consideration should be given to Section 69(1) of the CRA which states that if a term 
in a consumer contract could have different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable 
to the consumer is to prevail.
I note MBNA disputes Section 69(1) should apply in this case. Its set out the Supreme Court 
in the case of Arnold v Britton [2015] UKSC 36 confirmed that, when looking at the 
interpretation of an ambiguous clause in a written contract, a court would try and find out the 
parties intentions by reference to what a reasonable person (having all the background 
knowledge) would think. And it said the court wouldnt just find in the favour of the consumer 
without looking at other considerations  namely:
the nature and ordinary meaning of the clause
any other provisions of the contract;
overall purpose of the clause and the contract;
the facts and circumstances known or assumed by the parties at the time the contract 
was entered into; and
commercial common sense.
But I dont think this changes what Ive set out above. Ultimately MBNA suggests that, just 
because Mrs G had to pay more for her new flights, it doesnt mean the contract should 
automatically be read in her favour. Ive considered MBNAs comments in respect to this and 
I agree with MBNA that Arnold v Britton may give a useful guide as to how courts might 
apply Section 69(1) when considering ambiguity  particularly regarding Mrs Gs case. 
However, we need to be mindful that this was considered before the CRA came into effect. 
And the CRA, alongside other court findings, gives clear guidelines as to how ambiguity 
should be considered.  
I think one of the key considerations here is whether the intention of the clause was clear. As 
For the reasons I set out above, Im not persuaded its sufficiently clear what T meant from 
the clause, as I think both interpretations of the clause are a reasonable interpretation of Ts 
intention. 
Further to this, I think it would generally be regarded as commercial common sense that a 
contracting party wouldnt give away their important rights available under the general law 
without the contract clearly stating as such. The terms of the contract dont clearly take these 
rights away. So, I think its entirely in line with commercial common sense that Mrs G should 
still be entitled to her normal contractual rights to damages for consequential loss.  
So I think it is fair to apply Section 69(1) in this case. Clearly in this case the interpretation of 
the clause granting an additional compensatory remedy to Mrs G is the most favourable to 
her.However, even if any of what Ive said above wasnt the case, I think a court is likely to find 
that a clause which removes a right to standard common law damages would probably 
constitute an unfair term under section 63 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). I say as 
such because it would relieve T of its responsibility to fulfil its contractual obligations and 
leave Mrs G with no right to compensation.
In thinking about this Im conscious Schedule 2 of the CRA gives examples of terms that 
might be considered to be unfair. I think the following examples are relevant here:
Para 2 
A term which has the object or effect of inappropriately excluding or limiting the legal rights 
of the consumer in relation to the trader or another party in the event of total or partial non-
performance or inadequate performance by the trader of any of the contractual obligations
Para 3 
A term which has the object or effect of making an agreement binding on the consumer in a 
case where the provision of services by the trader is subject to a condition whose realisation 
depends on the trader's will alone.
So, even if I was to accept that Clause 33 contract did limit Ts liability to exclude liability for 
consequential losses, which I dont, I think its likely a court would find it unenforceable. I 
think the presence of this limitation creates a significant imbalance in the parties contractual 
rights and obligations to Mrs Gs detriment  namely Mrs G can have no recourse where she 
suffers a loss due to Ts failure to fulfil its contractual requirements. I say as such because in 
effect  as has happened in this case  T would be able to cancel the flight, breach its 
required to provide an alternative flight, which would mean the consumer has to make their 
own arrangements. But the consumer wouldnt be entitled to claim compensation for any 
losses she suffers as a result of this due to the alleged restrictions set out by Clause 33. I 
think this is the sort of situation Para 2 and Para 3 Ive set out above intended to refer to.
In actuality, I think, given the considerations of S63 of the CRA, this further indicates to me 
that the terms of the contract cant properly be read as excluding Ts liability to pay damages 
under common law.
So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think it was fair for MBNA to say Mrs G wasnt 
able to recover her consequential losses.
Is MBNA liable for all of Mrs Gs losses?
Ive now thought about what losses Mrs G could have claimed had MBNA handled her S75 
claim fairly. Mrs G is looking to recover the extra amount she paid to buy replacement flights 
through a separate company  namely £2,772.61. In assessing whether I think Mrs G can 
claim for consequential losses, I need to ask myself three questions:
1. Is the loss a direct result of the breach of contract;
2. Is the loss a reasonably foreseeable loss flowing from the breach of contract; and
3. Did Mrs G take reasonable steps to mitigate her losses?
I dont think it can be disputed that the need to buy replacement flights is a direct result of Ts 
breach of contract. Similarly, I think its reasonably foreseeable that Mrs G would look to buy 
replacement flights at an additional expense once T cancelled the flight. So the issue for me 
to consider is whether Mrs G took reasonable steps to mitigate her losses.
The flights Mrs G bought were return flights for a holiday. Shes separately booked flights out 
to the destination and a hotel for the travelling party to stay in. I understand these were non-cancellable contracts. And Mrs G had paid around £5,000 for these. Mrs G has said it was 
more cost effective to buy replacement flights as, otherwise, shed lose the £5,000 shed 
paid. This seems a fair and reasonable approach to take. So Im satisfied that she took fair 
steps to mitigate her own and her travelling parties losses.
Ive now thought about whether MBNA is liable for everything Mrs G paid for the 
replacement flights. As I said above, Mrs G has already received the refund for the cost of 
the flights T was supposed to provide. I think the total loss to the traveling party is the extra 
that Mrs G paid  i.e. £2,772.61. However, it doesnt follow that MBNA is liable for the full 
loss.
While I accept Mrs G paid the full cost of the replacement flights and is out of pocket for this 
amount, I dont think MBNA needs to refund this full cost. As I said before, MBNA is only 
liable for consequential losses arising from contracts between Mrs G and T. And this extends 
to contracts which she derives an actual benefit from or to a contracting party who is 
considered a dependant of Mrs G. So, for the reasons Ive set out above, MBNA needs to 
compensate Mrs G for losses she incurred regarding the contracts involving her, her 
husband and children. But I dont think its liable for the consequential losses arising from the 
breach of contract on her mother-in-laws contract. I recognise this is Mrs Gs loss as she 
paid for her mother-in-laws flight. But it relates to a contract between her mother-in-law and 
T. As Mrs G is not a party to this contract, MBNA isnt liable for any losses arising from that 
contract. So it follows that I dont think MBNA is liable for the cost of that ticket.
Mrs G paid £4,348.55 in total for all the replacement flights. We dont know the exact 
breakdown for each individual passenger. On average this works out as £724.76 per 
passenger. But I think its likely the cost of the childrens tickets would have been less than 
the adults tickets  especially given £4,348.55 isnt equally divisible between six. Mrs G 
doesnt have a breakdown of how much each ticket cost. So we cant know for certain what 
the precise loss is per ticket. Given this, I need to estimate what the loss is reasonably likely 
to be. 
As theres no exact way to calculate the exact cost of Mrs Gs mother-in-laws ticket, Im 
taking a pragmatic approach. Taking everything into consideration, I think the fairest way to 
resolve this is MBNA refunds £3,600 of the amount Mrs G paid for the flights  estimating 
the adult ticket to be around £748.55. 
Mrs G paid for this using her MBNA credit card and I think she should get this money back. 
So I think MBNA should reconstruct her credit card as if she hadnt paid for these flights. If, 
after doing so, it finds she is out of pocket it should refund this. It should also pay 8% simple 
interest on any amount due from the date she was out of pocket until she gets it back. 
Ive also thought how the refund Mrs G received from the chargeback should be used as part 
of the reconstruction of the credit card. Had T not breached the terms of the contract and 
provided the flight, Mrs G wouldnt have had to receive a refund for the cost of Ts tickets or 
buy the replacement flights. So, when considering the reconstruction of the credit card, I 
think MBNA should treat the money credited back to the account from the chargeback as a 
part-payment towards the cost of the replacement flights.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and said they didnt have anything further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything new to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require MBNA Limited to reconstruct Mrs Gs credit card reducing the amount she paid for 
the replacement flights by £3,600. MBNA limited can treat the amount credited back from the 
chargeback as a payment towards the cost of the replacement flights. If, after doing so, it 
finds she is out of pocket at any point it should refund this. It should also pay 8% simple 
interest on any amount due from the date she was out of pocket until she gets it back.
If MBNA Limited thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from the above interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman