DRN-2412587
The complaint
 Mrs M and Mr M (the complainants) are represented. They say a representative of 
TenetConnect Limited (TCL) gave them unsuitable advice in 2014 leading to their 
investment of £140,000, jointly, in a Skandia Collective Investment Bond (the bond). They 
say the bond was unsuitable for the complainants because of the following reasons:
It exposed too much of their assets to investment risks. [issue 1]
As the bond was held with one provider (Skandia), it lacked diversification. [issue 2]
Two of the four funds within the bond had medium to high risk profiles with majority 
exposure to the equities market(s) which mismatched their cautious investor profile. 
[issue 3]
What happened
 TCL disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
The complainants had a risk profile scored at 3 to 4 (Cautious  Moderately 
Cautious) out of 10 (Aggressive); at the time of advice they had assets totalling 
£257,000 (a total of £24,000 in their Cash Individual Savings Account (ISAs), 
£54,000 in a Cash Bond, a cash total of £163,000 in bank accounts and £17,000 in 
shares); they sought to invest £140,000 over 10 years and to retain £60,000 on 
deposit as a contingency fund; the advisers initial recommendation was for the 
complainants to use a total of around £11,500 for further ISA investments and then 
invest the remainder of around £128,500 in a Skandia Open Ended Investment 
Company; they declined this recommendation and, on an insistent client basis 
(reflecting their instruction), the adviser recommended the alternative investment of  
all £140,000 in the bond (as they wanted an onshore bond investment).
Issue 1 is defeated by the fact that after the complainants investment in the bond 
they had £100,000 (around 40% of their assets) remaining in cash savings, which 
more than catered for their objective of retaining £60,000 as a contingency fund. 
They were not overexposed to investment risks and this allocation did not mismatch 
their objectives, risk profile or capacity for loss.
With regards to issue 2, the bond gave exposure to a wide range of 
funds/investments in the UK and overseas, and a wide range of asset classes  so it 
was sufficiently diversified. 
The risk scores/profiles for the four funds in the bond were as follows  2, 5, 3 and 2. 
The amount of £35,000 was invested, equally, in each fund. In this context only one 
fund was above the complainants joint risk score/profile of 3-4, whilst one was within 
their score/profile and two were below. Overall, and in response to issue 3, the bond 
was consistent with their attitude to risk and did not mismatch it.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She agreed that the bond was sufficiently 
diversified, for broadly the same reasons as those given by TCL, and she noted that the 
advisers recommendation of Skandia as the bond provider was well reasoned (including 
comparisons with other providers) in the suitability letter given to the complainants at the 
time of advice. She also agreed that three of the underlying four funds were consistent with 
their attitude to risk. 
However, she considered that the fund that mismatched their attitude to risk was unsuitable, 
that it was not justified simply because the other three were suitable, that the mismatch and 
higher risks in the fund should have been made abundantly clear to them in order for them to 
make an informed decision, that the adviser did not do this at the time and that, as such, the 
bond was unsuitable for them. The investigator proposed redress based on a benchmark 
comparison exercise aimed at reflecting the complainants cautious profile.
TCL disagrees with this outcome. It retains its position on the complaint issues and it 
highlights that information about all funds  including fact sheets with information about their 
risk profiles  were available to the complainants prior to their investment, so their 
investment was well informed. It also says the adviser recalls having a number of 
discussions with them about all the funds and fact sheets.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I find as follows:
I agree with TCLs position on issue 1. The complainants were not overexposed to 
investment risks. At least £100,000 of their total assets of £257,000 was retained by 
them in cash. I appreciate that £17,000 of the remainder was already invested in 
shares and then £140,000 of the remainder was invested in the bond. However, 
having an overall cash reserve of around 40% (of total assets)  which is what the 
above allocations amounted to  does not depict an overexposure to investments. In 
addition, and as TCL says, this cash reserve allocation more than catered for the 
complainants objective to retain £60,000 for contingency purposes.
I agree, again, with TCL on issue 2. As TCL and the investigator have noted, despite 
investing with a single bond provider the complainants investment in the bond gave 
them exposure to a variety of funds and asset classes (including what could be 
termed as mainstream asset classes) in the UK, in mainland Europe, in the United 
States, in South Africa, in Australia and in the Far East. I also agree with the 
investigators observation that the recommendation of Skandia, as the bond provider, 
was well reasoned.
With regards to issue 3, it is evident that the two funds with risk scores/profiles at 
level 2 were suitable for the complainants. In reaching this conclusion, I have not 
relied only on their scores, their factsheets show that, overall, whilst they had equities 
contents, they were mainly weighted in fixed interest securities (and therefore less 
risky). This was not the case for the fund that was scored at level 3, where fixed 
interest securities appear to have accounted for the minority content (around 24%); 
and this was not the case for the fund that was scored at level 5, which had around 85% exposure to equities.
I understand TCLs point about the overall balance of the bond and about judging it 
on this basis  not on the basis of isolated views about the individual funds. In many 
cases, this would be the approach taken in this service. However, it remains 
important to address each case on its individual facts and merits. In doing so, in the 
present complaint and perhaps on a finely balanced basis, I am not persuaded to 
conclude that the advisers recommendation was suitable. For the sake of 
completeness, I have noted that the bond investment was made in the insistent 
context that TCL has described, but I do not consider it a point that affects whether 
(or not) the bond matched the complainants attitude to risk  which is an issue that 
stands or falls on its own merits. 
I am mindful that, prior to the investment, the complainants held such a profoundly 
cautious profile that only £17,000 of their total assets of £275,000 was invested. The 
overwhelming majority remainder  a total of over £250,000  was essentially held in 
cash (in bank accounts, a cash Bond and in cash ISAs). That was a substantial cash 
holding and one which, I consider, defines the extent to which they valued being 
cautious with their assets. 
It is also important to reflect how their 3-4 risk score was defined. Investors in 
category 3 were defined as those who preferred  not to take any risk with their 
investments, but  can be persuaded to do so to a limited extent; and those who 
 would prefer to keep their money in the bank, but may realise that other types of 
investments are likely to be better for the longer term. Those in category 4 were 
similarly described, with slight differences in the references to being uncomfortable 
taking risks but being willing to do so to a limited extent.
Overall and on balance, I consider that the complainants joint profile and the risk 
score categories that applied to them required the avoidance of funds that were not 
inherently cautious. The complainants appear to have been inherently and firmly 
cautious investors who expected this to be reflected in their investment and I am not 
persuaded that the two funds  or, at least, the fund with the 5 risk score  which 
were mainly (and, for at least one of them, overwhelmingly) weighted in equities 
matched this expectation. Overall, I am also not satisfied that the bond was exposed 
to the risks in equities to a limited extent. The bonds exposure in this respect was 
more than to a limited extent. It is not enough for TCL to say the fund fact sheets and 
discussions at the time informed the complainants. Evidence is not clear on precisely 
what was discussed. It is also reasonable to conclude that the complainants relied, 
ultimately, more on the advisers recommendation than on the details of the 
components of the four funds. It is also the case that responsibility for suitability of 
the recommendation rests with the adviser (and TCL) and the extent to which the 
complainants were informed does not automatically dilute that.
For the above reasons, I am persuaded to uphold the complainants complaint.
Putting things right
 fair compensation
In deciding what is fair, my aim is to put the complainants as close as I can to the position 
they would probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice. I consider that 
they would have invested differently, but because it is not possible to say precisely what they would have done differently the benchmark comparison exercise ordered below is 
appropriate. I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given the complainants joint 
profile at the time of advice. 
what must TCL do?
To compensate the complainants fairly, TCL must:
Compare the performance of the complainants investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the complainants the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, no compensation is payable. Pay interest as set out below. Income tax 
may be payable on any interest awarded.
Provide the details of the calculations to the complainants in a clear and simple 
format.
investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The 
complainants 
Skandia 
Collective 
Investment 
Bondsurrenderedfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds; and for the 
other half, the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior 
to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total 
Return Index)date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered 8% simple per 
year from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement 
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, TCL should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if TCL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
The complainants wanted growth and income, with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds, and would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that the complainants were in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objective. The 50/50 
combination above would reasonably put them into that position and it broadly 
reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from an investment suited to their 
profile.
The additional interest is for the complainants being deprived of the use of any 
compensation money since the end date.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs s and Mr Ms complaint. I order TenetConnect 
Limited to calculate and pay them compensation as set out above and to provide them with a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman