DRN-4121540
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement of a fixed sum loan agreement with Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance.
Throughout Mr S complaint he has been represented by a family member. For ease, Ill refer 
only to Mr S.
What happened
In January 2015, Mr S took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Mitsubishi, to pay for the 
installation and supply of a brand new boiler. Regular monthly payments were made under 
the agreement. But, in February 2020, arrears of £315.12 had accrued.
Mitsubishi agreed to accept a payment from Mr S of £183.69, to settle the arrears and close 
the loan account. Mitsubishi then wrote off the remaining balance and sent Mr S an email in 
March 2020, to confirm that the agreement was fully settled down.
Around two and a half years later, Mr S contacted his mortgage broker to find a new fixed 
rate for his mortgage. But, the broker explained to Mr S that an application for the rate he 
wanted, would probably be declined due to a default marker, applied by Mitsubishi. So, Mr S 
contacted Mitsubishi to try and get the default removed from his credit report.
At the end of September 2022, Mitsubishi confirmed to Mr S that the default had been 
removed and the status of loan account he held with them, had changed on his credit report 
to settled. However, in the time it took for Mitsubishi to make the changes, Mr S found that 
the interest rates for mortgage lending had increased. He says this meant the deals found 
for him by his broker, had become more expensive.
Mr S complained to Mitsubishi and asked them to consider paying him for the cost of the 
difference in the rates, in light of their oversight. Mitsubishi responded and apologised for not 
marking the loan as satisfied in 2020. 
But, Mitsubishi said Mr S wasnt guaranteed to get the less expensive interest rate, as the 
broker hadnt actually submitted a full application. So, they didnt agree to refund the 
difference in the cost of the interest rates. However, Mitsubishi offered Mr S £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in updating his credit file.
Mr S didnt accept Mitsubishis offer and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr S case and found that Mitsubishi hadnt treated him fairly. The 
investigator was persuaded that had Mitsubishi not made an error with the default marker, 
Mr S would have been given the less expensive mortgage interest rate.
So, the investigator concluded that as well as the £500 offered by Mitsubishi, they should 
pay Mr S the cost of the difference between the mortgage interest rate he wanted and the 
rate he was given. The investigator also said that Mitsubishi should add further interest to 
each amount, as Mr S wasnt able to use that money for something else.
Mitsubishi didnt agree and said it wasnt certain that the application for the mortgage interest 
rate Mr S wanted, would be accepted. They said other issues on Mr S credit report may 
have stopped the application from succeeding.
The investigator didnt change her findings, so Mr S case has now been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about a fixed sum loan agreement Mr S took out with Mitsubishi, which is a 
regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it
The settlement of the fixed sum loan
The crux of Mr S complaint sits with what he was told, when he agreed a reduced 
settlement amount for the fixed sum loan in early 2020. I can see from the evidence Mr S 
has sent to us, that he made a payment of £183.69 to settle the total outstanding debt of 
£315.12.
I can also see that Mitsubishi sent an email to Mr S on 5 March 2020 and said:
I can now confirm that your agreement has been fully settled down, thank you for 
your patience while this was done.
However, Mitsubishis records show that in July 2020, they explained to Mr S that the default 
appearing on his credit file, may not be removed. So, I think Mr S was given two pieces of 
conflicting information about the satisfied status of the fixed sum loan, within a few months of 
each other.
Mitsubishis final response letter in October 2022 seems to revert back to their initial stance 
on the settled status of the loan. In this letter, Mitsubishi apologised to Mr S and confirmed 
that the loan account should have been marked as satisfied.
Overall, I think Mitsubishi have acknowledged that Mr S fixed sum loan agreement should 
have been marked as satisfied in 2020, when he made the payment to settle the balance. 
Having considered all the evidence, I think Mitsubishi made an error in March 2020, which 
wasnt corrected until Mr S complained to them in September 2022. So, Ive gone on to 
consider the impact the error had on Mr S.
The impact on Mr S mortgage offer
Mr S says he wasnt able to take up a fixed rate mortgage deal in 2022, because Mitsubishi 
didnt mark his fixed sum loan as settled. Mitsubishi say that there were multiple variables 
involved to connect the settlement of the fixed sum loan, to any potential lending Mr S would 
go on to apply for.
I can see from the history of this complaint, that Mr S approached a mortgage broker at the 
start of September 2022. Weve spoken to the broker and weve seen a copy of the eligibility 
criteria for the fixed rate deal Mr S wanted to apply for. 
The fixed rate deal Mr S had in mind was for two years with monthly repayments of 
£1,154.44. Part of the criteria to be eligible for the deal, was that an applicant should not have any default markers showing as unsatisfied, in the previous two years. In other words, 
any defaults in Mr S name, needed to have been satisfied before September 2020.
Ive looked at a copy of Mr S credit file and I can see that the default marker from the fixed 
sum loan, was the only account that showed as unsatisfied, at the time he wanted to take 
out the mortgage deal. Im aware that Mitsubishi say there may have been other factors 
involved, that could have resulted in a failed application.
But, I can see from the application criteria where Mr S application would likely have 
succeeded, had Mitsubishi marked the fixed sum loan as satisfied in March 2020.
Ive also thought carefully about where both Mr S and his wife wanted to apply for the 
mortgage deal together. And Im aware that any successful application would depend on her 
credit history too. However, the broker has told us that the reason the application ceased, 
was because of what hed seen on Mr S credit file, rather than his wifes. 
On balance, Im persuaded by what the broker says here. I think Mr S contracted the broker 
to find him the most appropriate mortgage deal. So, the broker concentrated on what would 
be the most likely reason why an application may fail. And the broker found that to be with 
the information recorded about Mr S credit history.
Mitsubishi have said that the mortgage deal Mr S wanted, was an agreement in principle, 
rather than an offer from a mortgage lender. But, I can see where it may have been 
detrimental if Mr S and his broker had decided to proceed, knowing that the default marker 
for the fixed sum loan, was likely to have caused a problem. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Mr S not to submit the full application, after he had been given the agreement in principle.
Ive considered the full eligibility criteria for the mortgage deal, Mr Ss credit file and what the 
broker has said. Having done so, Im persuaded by the weight of evidence in Mr S case. In 
all the circumstances, on balance, I think the default for the fixed sum loan caused Mr S to 
miss out on the mortgage deal he wanted to apply for.
To look at the full impact on Mr S, Ive thought about what he went on to do, once Mitsubishi 
corrected the default marker.
Mr S has provided documents to show he entered into a mortgage deal on 26 September 
2022. This deal was for the same amount borrowed and over the same term as the 
mortgage deal he wanted earlier in the month. However, due to a higher rate, the monthly 
payments over a two year fixed rate period are £1,321. Mr S says he entered this mortgage 
deal on the same day Mitsubishi made him aware that his credit file had been updated.
Mitsubishi say they authorised the update to Mr Ss credit file on 21 September 2022 and the 
changes were made two days afterwards. Ive seen evidence to show where lenders 
increased fixed rate mortgage deals from 23 September 2022 onwards. And the broker says 
the lender stopped offering the deal that Mr S had originally wanted.
Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded by what Mr S says. I find it likely that the 
deal he wanted was removed on the same day as Mitsubishi say his credit file would have 
been updated. And I find Mr S actions consistent and credible, in that he looked to secure a 
two year fixed rate deal as soon as he says he became aware of the changes to his credit 
file.
Ive concluded that the default marker applied by Mitsubishi led to Mr S missing out on his 
preferred mortgage deal. Ive also found that Mr S went ahead and took a different deal 
when he was reasonably able to. So, Ive gone on to think about the loss suffered by Mr S and what Mitsubishi should do, to 
put things right.
The settlement of this complaint
Mr S has provided us with copies of the agreement in principle that he was given by his 
broker in early September 2022, and of the mortgage deal he took out at the end of that 
month. Nearly all the details are the same for each deal. However, there are differences with 
both the lender and the rate.
I can see from the evidence given to us that Mr S is due to pay a total of £31,842 over the 
whole of his current two year fixed rate mortgage deal. This is in contrast to the total 
repayment amount of £27,706.56, outlined in the document for the mortgage deal he missed 
out on.
So, given my findings, I think its fair for Mitsubishi to refund the difference between the two 
fixed rate mortgage deals, of £4,135.44.
Mr S has made payments to his current mortgage since October 2022. This means hes paid 
around £166 more than he would of every month, had he been able to take up the initial 
mortgage deal. It follows that Mr S hasnt had the use of those funds, in each month they 
were paid. 
In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Mitsubishi to pay Mr S interest at 8% a year simple 
on the difference between the monthly payments hes made, and the monthly payments that 
were outlined under the fixed rate deal he initially wanted. 
I think the interest should be added from the date each repayment was made, to the date 
this complaint is settled. Should Mitsubishi ask Mr S to provide proof hes made each 
payment to his mortgage lender, then I also think this is a reasonable request. 
There will be some payments due under Mr S current fixed rate deal which he has yet to 
make to his mortgage lender. I dont think Mitsubishi need to pay interest on these future 
repayments, as under this settlement, Mr S will not lose the use of these funds.
Finally, I agree that Mr S has been caused distress and inconvenience throughout the time 
he dealt with Mitsubishi about the default marker. 
I acknowledge that trying to secure a mortgage deal, with the aim of having a consistent 
monthly repayment would have been very important to him. I think this was even more 
relevant, when considering the borrowing conditions at the time and the likelihood of the 
changing of rates.
So, I think its fair for Mitsubishi to make a payment to Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience he has experienced. Mitsubishi offered to pay Mr S £500 when they 
responded to his complaint. Having carefully considered everything, I think Mitsubishis offer 
is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
For these reasons Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
should:
- pay Mr S £4,135.44 for the difference between the two year fixed rate given to him by 
his mortgage lender and the fixed rate deal he missed out on;- add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to the difference between each repayment 
made under Mr S current fixed rate deal and the deal he missed out on, from the 
date each monthly payment was made, to the date of settlement of this complaint; 
and
- pay Mr S £500 for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, 
trading as Novuna Personal Finance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman