DRN-2268101
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as RSAs handling 
of their escape of water claim.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs B discovered a flood at their property, which had caused damage 
to the utility room, kitchen and hallway of their home. They contacted RSA to make a claim 
under their home insurance policy and RSA accepted the claim. 
Repair work took longer than expected. Mr and Mrs B were disappointed that no project 
manager had been assigned to oversee their claim, and were unhappy with the delays in the 
process and the poor quality of the work that was carried out by RSAs contractors. So they 
complained to RSA about its poor handling of the claim. 
RSA instructed a surveyor to inspect the damage and report back about the quality of the 
work. The surveyor agreed that the workmanship was poor and so RSA upheld Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint. It agreed to cover the cost of alternative contractors to complete the 
repairs highlighted in the surveyors report, instruct a project manager to oversee the claim 
and pay Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the poor 
level of service they received, as well as a daily disturbance allowance.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with RSAs response to their complaint. They said they wanted 
the entire kitchen replaced including all units, even those which were not damaged, and 
financial recompense for the costs incurred, including time they had to take off work, as well 
as compensation for the emotional, mental and physical suffering theyd endured. So they 
referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and thought RSAs offer to put things right for Mr and 
Mrs B was reasonable. He didnt recommend they do anything further. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed with our investigators assessment and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the report by the surveyor and reports provided by Mr and Mrs B  and its 
clear from this evidence that the work to the property following the repair of the leak was 
substandard. RSA has not disputed this, nor has it disputed that it provided a poor level of 
service and caused unreasonable delays. So Ive considered whether I think its offer to put 
things right for Mr and Mrs B is fair.
While I do not doubt the impact this claim has had on Mr and Mrs Bs emotional, physical 
and mental wellbeing  and while Ive considered carefully everything theyve said about 
how much theyve suffered  I also have to consider that claims of this nature can take some 
time to deal with, particularly where drying of a property is involved and subsequently 
substantial repairs are required. I can see from the timeline of events in this claim that even 
in early September 2019, several months after the claim was reported, affected areas of the 
property were still giving high moisture readings and the property wasnt fully dry until the 
middle of September 2019. And the progress of the claim was also affected by issues 
relating to the pandemic. 
In light of this, Ive considered which delays in this matter were unavoidable and which 
delays were as a result of poor claims handling by RSA. And Ive taken account of the fact 
that some level of disruption and distress is inevitable in a claim like this. Mr and Mrs B have 
had the opportunity to send me any medical evidence which would indicate that the handling 
of the claim had a significant impact on their health, but have not provided any. So, taking 
everything into account, I think RSAs offer to pay £500 compensation for the delays it and 
its appointed agents were responsible for, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs B, is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B have said that RSAs offer to pay them a disturbance allowance of £20 per day 
doesnt cover the cost of all their meals, but I have to consider that a disturbance allowance 
is not meant to constitute compensation for all disruption caused as a result of the claim. 
This was offered as compensation for extra costs incurred by Mr and Mrs B due to them 
staying in the property while there were no kitchen facilities available. And I dont think 
RSAs offer to pay £10 per day per person is unreasonable. I say this because I dont expect 
RSA to cover the cost of Mr and Mrs Bs typical food expenditure  but rather to offer a 
reasonable contribution to recognise that Mr and Mrs B wouldve incurred some additional 
costs. Compensation for the distress and inconvenience of everything that happened  
particularly the delays which led to more time spent living in these conditions  was offered 
as part of the £500 compensation for poor service.
Mr and Mrs B say a claims manager shouldve been appointed to oversee the claim and 
ensure smooth progress. Whilst I agree that this wouldve been helpful, I cant say RSA have 
acted unreasonably by not appointing one from the start of the claim, as theres nothing in 
the policy terms and conditions that suggests that a project manager will be allocated to all 
claims. However, RSA have since agreed to appoint one and I think this is a fair resolution to 
this aspect of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say theyre unhappy about RSAs offer to cash settle, and instead have asked 
that a contractor of their choice is invited to the tender process  so that they can use local 
recommended tradespeople. But Mr and Mrs Bs policy says RSA will either use its network 
of contractors to carry out the work, or itll agree to cash settle so that customers can use 
their own contractor. And any cash settlement wont usually exceed the amount it would cost 
RSA to use its preferred supplier. So I dont think the options RSA have given to Mr and 
Mrs B are unreasonable  as these are in line with the terms and conditions of their policy.
RSA has made a cash settlement offer to Mr and Mrs B. And it says it awaits Mr and Mrs Bs 
response to that offer, as well as cost details for their damaged sink. RSA agreed to 
recalculate the disturbance allowance to cover the time Mr and Mrs B were without cooking 
and cleaning facilities and pay that to Mr and Mrs B as part of the settlement offered. And I 
think this is fair.
In relation to Mr and Mrs Bs point about the total value of this claim, Ive seen nothing on the 
file which suggests that RSA intends to overstate the true value of this claim. But I agree 
with Mr and Mrs B that RSA should only record the cost of rectifying the original damage caused as a result of the burst pipe, and not include in the value of this claim any costs 
relating to re-doing work, as RSA has accepted that these costs were as a result of poor 
workmanship, and not a direct result of the insured event.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but for the reasons Ive explained above, I wont be 
asking RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman