DRN-2676990
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Bank of Scotland plc has charged too much interest on her mortgages 
by keeping her on the standard variable rate (SVR). She says that BoS has put obstacles in 
the way of her applying for a new rate.
What happened
Mrs V has two residential mortgages with BoS. She complains that BoS have kept her on the 
SVR on both mortgages for ten years. This means she has paid more interest than she 
needed to, and has caused financial difficulty in trying to find higher payments. She also 
says that BoS has refused to deal with her husband or her financial adviser.
BoS said that both mortgages had been in arrears for much of the last ten years, and it didnt 
offer new interest rates where a mortgage was in arrears. It said that for a time in 2016, both 
mortgages were clear of arrears. It said that at that time Mrs Vs husband called about one of 
the mortgages and it explained it would need to speak to Mrs V direct. Mrs V then called but 
there was a problem with the phone line and she didnt call back. And it said there was no 
evidence of contact about the other mortgage when it was arrears free.
By 2019, both accounts were clear of arrears. Mrs V authorised her financial adviser to act 
on her behalf. But BoS said authority only allowed the adviser to get information  to make 
changes to the account she would need full power of attorney. It agreed to backdate a new 
interest rate if the adviser got power of attorney and re-applied. This was done, and new 
rates were applied to one of the mortgages from 1 September 2019. This resulted in a 
refund of overpayments on one of the mortgages and reduced arrears on the other.
However, BoS said Mrs V wasnt eligible for a new rate on one of the mortgages, since that 
property was let out. Although this was with BoSs consent, it said that customers with 
consent to let werent eligible for new interest rates. So the rate switch on this account 
shouldnt have gone through. It said it would honour and not remove the rate. But while the 
property was let out, Mrs V would be unlikely to get another rate when this one expires. 
Our investigator didnt think BoS had acted unfairly. He said it wasnt unfair that BoS 
wouldnt consider a rate while Mrs V was in arrears. But it was fair that it offered her a rate 
once she was clear of arrears and in a position to apply.
Mrs V didnt accept that, and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres only evidence in BoSs notes of an application for a new rate being made in 2016, 
until the successful application in 2019.
But Mrs Vs financial adviser has said that she applied for rates several times on Mrs Vs 
behalf, but was always told that she couldnt apply on Mrs Vs behalf without a power of 
attorney.
As I say, theres no mention of these conversations in BoSs notes. But I dont doubt the 
advisers recollection of them  and it does happen that not everything is recorded in the 
notes, especially where its an initial conversation that doesnt lead to an application.
In any case, what the adviser says is consistent with BoSs policy  that Mrs V would need to 
apply herself, unless a third party has power of attorney. A letter of authority isnt enough.
I dont think thats unreasonable. A new interest rate is a variation of the existing mortgage 
contract. And its not without consequences  while it might lower the interest rate, it also ties 
Mrs V into an early repayment charge (ERC). 
A letter of authority authorises BoS to speak to a representative. But a representative cant 
contract on Mrs Vs behalf on that basis. Only a full power of attorney allows someone else 
to enter into (or, as here, vary) a contract. So its not unfair that BoS needed either to deal 
with Mrs V direct  or with someone holding power of attorney for her.
And it seems BoS has been clear about that with Mrs V and her representatives for some 
years. So I dont think it was unfair that it wouldnt consider a new rate until that was in place.
Even if power of attorney had been granted sooner, Mrs V wouldnt have been eligible for 
new interest rates on her mortgages, because of arrears. 
BoSs policy is that it doesnt generally offer new rates to customers in arrears. Thats 
because a customer in arrears is more likely to have to sell their property  or even be 
repossessed  and were that to happen there would be a substantial ERC increasing the 
debt and reducing the equity in the property.
In some circumstances, though, a new interest rate might be the fair way to help a borrower 
in financial difficulty  especially if it makes the difference between the mortgage being 
affordable and unaffordable; being in arrears and being up to date.
But BoS wouldnt know whether a rate would make that difference without speaking to Mrs V 
and carrying out a review of her finances and circumstances. And  as the adviser says  it 
repeatedly told the adviser and Mrs Vs husband that it needed to speak to her to do that. 
Its not just a question of a rate automatically being affordable, or the right thing to do, 
because the payments would be lower. As I say, a new rate also includes an ERC. So its 
necessary to look at wider circumstances to see if the risk of the ERC outweighs the benefits 
of a new rate or not  and an important factor in that is whether the rate would make the 
mortgage truly affordable rather than merely reduce the arrears.
Ive not been provided with any evidence as to why Mrs V couldnt have contacted BoS 
herself to have that discussion. But it seems she only did so on one occasion, in 2016  
when a bad line led to the call ending, and Mrs V didnt call back.
I therefore dont think BoS acted unfairly in not giving Mrs V a new rate before 2019. Both 
mortgages were  apart from 2016 on one account, and 2014 to 2016 on the other  in 
arrears throughout. And BoS explained to her representatives that it needed to speak to her 
direct, but was never able to.By 2019, the mortgages were arrears free. BoS explained again to the adviser that it needed 
either to speak to Mrs V direct, or with someone holding power of attorney, to implement 
new rates. This time the adviser did get power of attorney. The power was granted at the 
end of August 2019. So BoS agreed to backdate rates on both mortgages to 1 September 
2019, the earliest they could have been granted without speaking to Mrs V herself.
I think this was fair. And I say that especially noting that Mrs V still wasnt eligible for a new 
rate on one of the properties because it was let out with consent. BoS made a mistake in 
granting a new rate  but decided to honour the rate rather than withdraw it when it realised 
its mistake. I think that was fair.
Im therefore satisfied that BoS has done what it could to assist Mrs V in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, and I dont think I can fairly uphold it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman