DRN-4293113
The complaint
Mr J complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) provided him with incorrect information 
about how the guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) on his pension would be paid. In addition, he 
also explained that they misinformed him about how the tax-free cash could be extracted 
from his plan.
Mr J says the misinformation resulted in him receiving a lower income than he initially 
thought. He went onto explain that he wants SWL to recompense him for the impact he says 
its had on his finances.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr J contacted SWL to discuss the options on his pension after receiving a 
wake-up pack from them earlier in the month. The pack highlighted his GAR would be lost if 
he didnt take his benefits by 14 October 2022.
Mr Js plan contained both unit linked and with profits investments but importantly, the GAR 
only applied to the with profits component. During the call, the SWL representative explained 
that Mr J would be able to take the majority of his tax-free cash from his unit linked fund first 
with the remaining balance being taken from the with-profits element. That would help 
ensure more of his with profits funds remained in the plan and benefited from the GAR.
During the discussion, SWL also provided Mr J with a number of annuity quotations that 
showed what his pension may provide if he took the income in different formats. They also 
explained that the final income he received would depend on the value of his plan at the time 
the annuity was purchased, so the figures quoted werent yet guaranteed. Following the 
discussions, SWL sent four annuity quotations to Mr J. After considering the illustrations, Mr 
J selected the option of an income paid monthly in arrears, on a level basis without 
guarantees and submitted the paperwork ahead of the deadline. He also decided to take the 
maximum tax-free cash from the pension.
After Mr J had received his policy schedule, he contacted SWL because he was surprised to 
see the income he would receive was lower than he initially thought. SWL explained how the 
GAR and tax-free cash had been applied but pointed out that the option hed selected hadnt 
resulted in the highest income available. They went on to explain that if hed wanted the 
largest income available, he shouldve opted for an annual income paid in arrears.
Shortly afterwards, Mr J decided to formally complain to SWL. In summary, he said the latest 
information that SWL had provided was different to what was given in their initial discussions 
back in August.
After reviewing Mr Js complaint, SWL concluded that theyd not been as clear as they could 
have been in their communications with him. They provided an explanation about how the 
tax-free cash had been debited from his plan  that was, across both unit linked and with 
profits elements in equal measures rather than weighted towards the unit linked fund. They 
also said, in summary, that they should have told him that to maximize the GAR, the annuity 
wouldve needed to have been paid annually, in-arrears, rather than monthly.
To say sorry, SWL offered Mr J £200 for the trouble theyd caused him. In addition, they 
explained that theyd be happy to reverse the transaction to put things right for him. 
However, as hed already spent the tax-free cash at this point, Mr J said that wasnt a 
suitable option for him. In addition, SWL said that theyd be happy to switch the income to 
annually, paid in-arrears, but Mr J would need to return the income that hed already 
received. Mr J explained that that also wasnt an option because hed already used the 
income that SWL had paid him to date.
Mr J was unhappy with SWLs response so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that he felt hed been misinformed by SWL. He went on to say that he 
didnt believe SWLs literature ever stated that hed need to take his income annually to get 
the best income possible. In addition, he felt it was clear from their paperwork that he could 
take the tax-free cash from the unit linked funds to preserve the GAR and with profits fund so 
that would ultimately provide a higher income.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that whilst 
SWL hadnt provided the correct information to Mr J at the time of their interactions, she was 
satisfied that following his complaint to them, the solutions theyd put forward to remedy 
things for him were fair and reasonable. She also said that despite being given the incorrect 
information, it wasnt reasonable to force SWL to provide an option to him that would never 
have been available in the first place to put things right.
However, Mr J disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that had he 
been given the correct information at the time, he wouldnt have taken the tax-free cash so 
he couldve received the maximum income possible from his annuity. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that Mr J had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy 
with that outcome, Mr J then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
After carefully considering both sets of submissions, I issued a provisional decision 
explaining that I wasnt planning on asking SWL to take any further action beyond what 
theyd already taken. Whilst my reasoning didnt differ significantly from that of the 
Investigators initial view, I added further context around why I felt SWL hadnt done anything 
wrong. For completeness, I repeat my provisional decision below:
My provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr J has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having very carefully considered both sets of submissions, Im broadly in agreement with the 
view set out by our Investigator and for the same reasons. Whilst Im upholding Mr Js complaint (on the basis he was originally provided with incorrect information), Im not going 
to ask SWL to do anything different beyond what theyve already done. I do appreciate thats 
likely to come as a disappointment to Mr J, but Ill explain why below. 
Mr J has said that he feels misled by SWL, particularly around the information he received 
about the guaranteed annuity rate that hed get when he took his pension income. SWL have 
apologised and tried to set the record straight. However, Mr J has pointed to recent literature 
that he believes suggests SWL arent correct, and he can take his income as monthly and 
still receive the original rate quoted.
Given the concerns Mr J has set out, Ive looked at what the terms and conditions of his plan 
say. Those conditions explain in detail what Mr J would be entitled to when he came to 
extract the benefits from his policy. Having looked at that document, whilst SWL did 
misinform Mr J in their August 2022 discussion, Im satisfied that what SWL have ultimately 
explained to Mr J in their complaint resolution letter corrects that and is reflective of what Mr 
J is entitled to. 
As Ive already highlighted, Mr J holds a pension that includes both with profit and unit linked 
funds. The guaranteed annuity rate was only payable on the with profits element of his 
investment. So, whilst I can understand, especially given most of Mr Js monies were in the 
with profits fund, why he wanted to take all the non-GAR element as his tax-free cash, this 
was never an option available to him, despite what the SWL representative told him in 
August 2022. 
According the 1988 terms that were in place at the time Mr J took his plan out, it states: 
6.5(b) to receive in lieu of part of the members pension under provision 6.4 or under 
option (a) above, as appropriate, a cash payment at the date of entry on pension 
provided that such cash payment does not exceed the maximum amount allowed under 
the rules. If the total amount includes values in respect of both unit-linked and with profits 
benefits, the balance remaining will be deemed to be split between those types of benefit 
in the same proportion as the total for the purposes of provision 4.4.
In addition, the brochure entitled Your guide to guaranteed annuity rates under your 
personal pension plus plan (published July 2011), section 9 states: What if I want the tax-
free lump sum?  The tax-free lump sum will reduce any portion of your plan entitled to a 
guaranteed annuity rate in the same proportion as the remainder of your plan. It also states 
the lump sum will not include any allowance for the GAR you are giving up.
So, whilst Ive paraphrased from the terms document, in summary that confirms any tax-free 
cash has to be deducted from across the plan (both unit linked and with profits funds) in 
equal proportion. Therefore, the tax-free cash calculation in SWLs letter of 1 February 2023 
appears to fairly reflect that approach.
In respect of the GAR on Mr Js pension, he understood from his discussions with SWL in 
August 2022, that hed receive an annuity that provided a rate of 11% from them at 
retirement. However, according to the terms of his plan, it explains that to benefit from the 
quoted GAR, the policy holder would have to take benefits on an annual, in-arrears basis, 
otherwise it would be actuarially reduced if he took it in any other format. It states in 
summary:
6.4 At the date of entry on pension the total of the value of any units allocated to the 
policy in respect of unit-linked benefit and any cash sum available in respect of with 
profits benefit will be applied to secure a pension payable yearly in arrear during the 
subsequent lifetime of the member, without final proportion to the date of death.6.5(c) to receive in lieu of the pension or pensions under 6.4 or under option (a) or option 
(b) above, as appropriate an actuarily equivalent (as certified by the Society) reduced 
pension or pensions (i) payable half-yearly, quarterly or monthly in arrear without final 
proportion to the date of death.
So, whilst Mr J was originally misinformed about how both elements of his pension would be 
paid, Im satisfied that what hes now been told is correct.
SWL have offered to unwind the annuity to put Mr J back in the position he wouldve been in 
had the mistakes not occurred. However, Mr J says thats not possible because hes used 
both the tax-free cash monies and hes also utilised the monthly income payments hes 
received.
Mr J says the annuity hes received provides £335 per year less than he originally thought. 
He wants SWL to compensate him for the incorrect information that they gave him that led 
him to make the wrong choice. He told our Investigator that he wants the lesser amount of 
the GAR being applied to the with-profits part only. However, I dont agree that they should 
do this and thats because he was never entitled to receive that level of annuity on a monthly 
basis. So, it would be unfair on SWL if I were to instruct them to give Mr J something to 
which he was never able to have in the first place. Whilst Ive looked closely at the 
paperwork that Mr J has submitted which he says proves SWL have misled him, Ive not 
been persuaded that thats the case. Thats because the terms of the policy take 
precedence. 
I think its important to remember that SWL didnt provide any advice during their interactions 
with Mr J. And, whilst I accept, some of the initial information they provided to him wasnt 
accurate, had he wanted personalised advice specific to his circumstances, he wouldve 
needed to seek professional financial advice. Had he done so, I well suspect the adviser 
wouldve highlighted the necessity of taking an income on an annual basis would most likely 
yield the largest income. Thats because the provider is able to hold on to those monies for a 
year before they have to pay those funds out. I appreciate that Mr J says he visited Pension 
Wise to seek information about his options. However, that service is able to provide 
information only rather than tailored advice specific to Mr Js own circumstances.
Deciding how and when to take benefits from a pension plan is a complicated business. 
Each individual will need to look at their own circumstances to determine the best way to do 
so. This is why providers signpost consumers to independent advice if they are in any way 
uncertain about how to proceed and SWL did just that.
Ive carefully considered the impact that this mistake has had on Mr J. I appreciate that when 
Mr J spoke to a representative at SWL in August 2022, he was given incorrect information 
about how his tax-free lump sum would be debited from his pension along with the incorrect 
fact hed receive an 11% income on a monthly basis. But, Im satisfied that SWL recognised 
that misinformation, set the record straight and offered to reverse the transaction to how Mr J 
wished. Ive thought about whether on the balance of probabilities, having the correct 
information in August 2022 wouldve made a difference to the outcome  and Im not 
persuaded it would have. 
Whilst I cant say for certain what wouldve happened, I still think that Mr J wouldve taken 
the tax-free cash. Mr J has already explained that his circumstances at the time  the 
pressing need to help his family out financially  necessitated it. In addition, I think had SWL 
told Mr J the difference between a yearly and monthly income, its more likely than not that 
he wouldve selected a monthly income. Thats because industry experience shows most 
consumers dont want to wait a year before receiving their income and taking the monies 
monthly aides with budgeting. But, more specifically from what Ive seen, I think Mr Js finances at the time appear to point towards him needing the funds to support his monthly 
expenditure. Thats reflected in the fact that when SWL offered to unwind the plan and 
restart the annuity on an annual basis, theyd need Mr J to return the paid contributions to 
them. By that point, he wasnt able to do so. 
So, I cant say that SWL prevented Mr J from making a newly informed decision or that they 
acted unfairly.
Using financial services wont always be hassle free. Mistakes sometimes happen but when 
they do, its important that businesses put things right for consumers. Whilst Mr J is unable 
to accept the solutions that SWL have put forward because of his current financial 
circumstances, that doesnt mean SWL have to take another course of action. As Ive 
already explained, Im satisfied that what SWL offered Mr J is fair in the circumstances, even 
if he is unable to make use of those choices. I also think that the £200 that SWL have 
already paid to Mr J to say sorry is reasonable. Its also in line with what I would have asked 
them to pay to Mr J had they not already done so. Therefore, I wont be instructing SWL to 
take any further action beyond what theyve already offered Mr J.
Responses to my provision decision
After considering my provisional decision, SWL stated that they had nothing further to add.
Mr J responded, saying in summary, that all of the verbal information and written 
documentation he received stated that no matter how he took the pension, it wouldnt affect 
the GAR and the tax-free cash could be taken solely from the unit linked part of his plan. He 
wanted to understand how this service could draw the conclusion it had when he was told 
something different and, in his opinion, so had the paperwork that SWL had provided him 
with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mr J, having carefully 
considered his subsequent comments, Im not persuaded to alter my original thinking.
In his response to the provisional decision, Mr J highlighted a document that he felt 
suggested no matter how he took the pension, it wouldnt affect the GAR and the tax-free 
cash. Mr J referred to that piece of paperwork as document 5 - a single page photocopied 
out of a larger document. The relevant part of the document Mr J refers to states: if you take 
a cash lump sum instead of part or all of your pension then the cash taken will not include 
any allowance for the guaranteed annuity rate. Normally, up to 25% of your pension fund 
can be taken as a tax-free lump sum. From 6th April 2015 the remainder can also be taken 
as a lump sum, though this will be subject to tax. However, I believe that SWL are stating 
that there will be no additional gain from the GAR in relation to any tax-free cash taken. 
That same document also states: you wont get your guaranteed annuity rate if you dont 
take it in the form thats specified in your policy provisions. And, as Ive already highlighted 
in my provisional decision, the provisions of Mr Js plan explain that to benefit from the 
stated GAR, he must take the income annually and in arrears. It also states that when taking 
the tax-free cash, the funds will be taken proportionately from across both unit linked and 
with-profit funds. So, it seems to me that SWLs documentation in respect of this point does 
set out what Mr J is entitled to.Whilst I do sympathise with Mr J having initially been given incorrect information over the 
telephone in August 2022, this was subsequently corrected by SWL. And, just because they 
told him he could take all his tax-free cash from the unit linked element of his plan and he 
could take his income monthly without it affecting the GAR, it doesnt necessarily follow that I 
think they should honour that. That wouldnt be fair to other consumers with the same policy 
or SWL and in any event, Mr J was already provided with the terms of what his policy would 
provide when he took the plan out. 
Im satisfied that when SWL identified their error, they put in place reasonable steps to put 
things right with Mr J. And, as Ive already said, even though Mr J is unable to accept the 
solutions that SWL have put forward because of his current financial circumstances, that 
doesnt mean SWL have to take another course of action. Thats because Im satisfied that 
what SWL offered Mr J is fair in the circumstances, even if he is unable to make use of those 
choices.
So in summary, Im upholding Mr Js complaint (on the basis he was originally provided with 
incorrect information), but Im not going to ask SWL to do anything different beyond what 
theyve already done.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Scottish Widows 
Limited should pay Mr J the £200 they offered in their final resolution letter of February 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman