DRN-1972012
The complaint
Mrs K complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) misrepresented a 
finance agreement to her and that their management of her subsequent enquiries was 
inadequate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs K acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the finance agreement should not have 
been misrepresented to her. If it was, and if I was persuaded that had it not been for the 
misrepresentation Mrs K would not have entered into the deal, I would ask BMWFS to take 
some action to put things right.
Im not persuaded the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mrs K. Shes explained that 
she was told shed be able to make a lump sum payment towards it and she was. I 
understand that Mrs K was upset that the payment didnt take affect for 28 days and that she 
thinks that should have been mentioned in the credit agreement. But theres a balance to be 
struck between defining and explaining each and every term of a contract and keeping a 
contract to a reasonable length and regardless, BMWFS have now refunded the difference 
in the payments so Mrs K is no longer disadvantaged. 
Ive listened to the call Mrs K had with the business in which she was frustrated that the 
agent terminated the call. I can hear that the call was a little fraught, but I dont think it would 
be fair to suggest the agent had been unreasonable. Ive also considered whether BMWFSs 
service in relation to this complaint has been unsatisfactory and whether they should 
compensate Mrs K for that. I understand Mrs K is disappointed BMWFS didnt call her back 
and progress her claim but having reviewed BMWFSs call records I can see they tried to 
call in January, but the call wasnt picked up and that Mrs K failed to go through security with 
the agents on a couple of occasions. Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to 
suggest BMWFSs handling of this complaint was inadequate and Im therefore not asking 
them to take any further action in relation to that.
I understand that Mrs K has provided information to demonstrate she went overdrawn in one 
of the months in which she was still required to pay the full amount on her finance 
agreement. I dont think it would be fair to suggest this was necessarily due to the additional 
£94.85 she was being asked to pay. Im not therefore persuaded to ask BMWFS to take any 
action about that. 
BMWFS have refunded the overpayment in November and December 2019 and have 
provided a £250 payment to compensate Mrs K for any distress and inconvenience they may 
have caused. I think thats reasonable and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman