DRN-3516525
The complaint
Mr M complains that the pension secured by his section 32 policy with The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) does not increase in payment.
What happened
Mr M says he had an employers pension that was transferred to a section 32 buyout policy 
with Prudential. He thought it should carry increases in payment. He produced the original 
scheme schedule to show this. He wanted the Prudential to pay the increases. He said the 
policy schedule referred to increases in payment.
The Prudential said that the policy secured his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) earned 
by his employment. That GMP was earned by work before 1988. The law applicable to 
GMPs did not require increases to be paid on pre 1988 GMP by it. In the past the increases 
were in effect covered by the state but that had changed and the Government no longer paid 
increases on pre 6 April 1988 GMP. It said the policy wording on increases referred to 
section 37A of the Pensions Act which did not require increases to be paid on GMP accrued 
prior to 6 April 1988.
It accepted that it did not originally give a correct answer and offered to send £150 for 
trouble and upset. 
The investigator said it was clear that the GMP Mr M had accrued was earned by work done 
prior to 1988 and therefore the law didnt require the Prudential to pay increases on the 
amount once it was in payment. While the policy schedule referred to increase it was clear 
that these were for benefits accrued after 5 April 1988 so didnt apply to his benefits which 
earned by work that ended in 1984. He didnt propose to ask the Prudential to take any 
further action.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the policy schedule referred to increases and felt it was 
misleading if they didnt apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a copy of the original policy schedule dated 11 March 1993. I note that it says 
Mr Ms pensionable service ended on 30 June 1984 (this is the in the section of the policy 
headed Termination Date and says his pensionable service ended on that day). It is 
therefore clear that work that he undertook which earned him a GMP was service before 6 
April 1988.
The section on increases says that 
The guaranteed minimum pension referred to herein shall insofar as it is attributable to 
earnings for tax years commencing after 5 April 1998 be increased in accordance with the 
requirements of section 37A of the Pensions Act and to the extent of any orders made under 
that section. 
I think the policy is clear that Mr Ms work ended in 1984 and therefore his associated GMP 
earned from that work was accrued before 1988. As a consequence the section on 
increases for post 1988 accrual does not apply. I cannot see that there are any other 
provisions requiring increases to be paid on the amount of his GMP.
I think the policy wording is clear and I dont think the Prudential has done anything wrong in 
not paying increases on the GMP. I note that it has offered and may already have paid £150 
for confusion in its original answer. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so 
I am not going to ask the Prudential to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and think that the Prudential has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman