DRN-1593605
The complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr J paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case. 
Ive decided that Mr Js PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Js mortgage application had a section for PPI. It looks like it offered him a choice about 
whether to take or turn down a policy, and that he chose the option to take it and signed the 
application to confirm his choices. The policy was not a condition of his mortgage, and Ive 
not seen any evidence to show that Lloyds misled Mr J here, nor any wider problems with 
their sales process from the time. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr J aware he 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr J, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr J, Ive assumed they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr J was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr J had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and offered 
him more comprehensive cover, especially for when his work benefits reduced to just a 
fraction of his normal pay. I also understand his family wouldve been happy to help, but 
there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, this mortgage 
was Mr Js sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Lloyds to 
recommend that he rely on other people to pay it. And if he fell behind on the payments, he 
couldve lost his home. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Mr J in protecting his 
home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr J about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr J chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted this type of 
cover. As I explained above, Mr J wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The policy 
was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid 
on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr J could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman