DRN-1769042
 
The complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
What happened
Mrs P took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1995. Halifaxs records show that in 2000 she took 
out a PPI policy when she took out a further advance on the mortgage.
Mrs P paid a monthly amount for the policy. It would have paid her monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 24 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P has told us that she wasnt told that the PPI was optional, and she was led to 
believe that her mortgage application would be rejected if she didnt take it.
 
Mrs P's referred to a one-off payment of more than £600 that she paid when she took 
out the mortgage in 1995. Shes referred to the payment as having been for the mis-
sold PPI. She says its clear from the fact that she was required to pay the fee in 
order for the mortgage to go ahead that there was significant emphasis on the 
importance of taking out the MPPI in order to secure and maintain the mortgage. But 
Im satisfied from Halifaxs records, from the mortgage offer and from the letter 
Halifax sent Mrs P when she opened her mortgage account, that the lump sum 
payment Mrs Ps referred to was an additional mortgage security fee. This was 
required because Halifax was lending Mrs P a greater proportion of the propertys 
value than it normally would have done. It had nothing to do with PPI. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ps signed mortgage application from 1995. It includes a 
section about PPI. It says that Halifax recommends that the applicant consider the 
cover, and it asks them to write Y or N for Yes or No in a box to indicate 
whether they wish to take the cover. Mrs P wrote N in the box, indicating that she 
didnt wish to take PPI at that stage. And she also indicated that she didnt want an 
insurer to contact her about PPI on Halifaxs behalf. So Im satisfied that Mrs P would 
have known that PPI was optional when she took out the mortgage. And I'm satisfied 
that she decided not to take it at that stage.
 
Halifaxs records show that Mrs P first paid a PPI premium in July 2000, around ten 
days after she took out a further advance on her mortgage. Halifax no longer has 
copies of the paperwork that Mrs P completed when she took out the further 
advance. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago this was. 
But by that stage, Mrs P had had the mortgage for two years without PPI. And I think 
its unlikely, on balance, that shed have thought that she needed to take out the 
cover in order to be given the further advance. Overall, I think its more likely that she 
decided to take out PPI because she wanted the benefit of the protection it offered. 
But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs P. This means it had a responsibility to check 
that the cover was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based 
on what Ive seen of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time.
 
Mrs Ps told us shed have been entitled to between six and 12 months pay from her 
employer at the time if shed been off sick. Shes commented that she was in a 
secure job, but she'd have been entitled to redundancy pay if she'd been made 
redundant. 
 
If Mrs P had made a successful claim on the PPI for accident or sickness, it would 
have paid out for up to 24 months per successful claim. Thats significantly longer 
than Mrs Ps told us shed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid 
the same benefit if shed made a successful unemployment claim. I accept that Mrs 
P's commented that it's unlikely she'd have been made redundant. But I think it's 
unlikely that she could have been certain that the job would remain secure. And the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay Mrs P 
received from her employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses. And she wouldnt have had to use her savings to meet her monthly 
mortgage payments. So taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have 
been useful for Mrs P.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs P chose 
to take out the policy. So she appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what shes told us 
about her circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions or limitations  for example provisions about unusual employment 
arrangements or existing medical conditions. 
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs P 
couldnt afford it. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at 
any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the 
cover.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs P would have made a different 
decision about taking out the PPI even if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think shed still have taken it.
 
Ive considered all Mrs Ps comments, including what shes said about the PPI premiums 
having increased after she took out the further advance. Shes provided a copy of a letter 
from Halifax about the increase, and she says it shows that this was an increase in a 
payment she was already making, not a new payment. But Im satisfied from Halifaxs 
records that the first payment Mrs P made for PPI was in July 2000  the month in which she 
took out the further advance. She paid the same amount the following month. The premiums 
and the amount of cover then increased from September 2000. The letter Halifax sent her in 
July 2000 about the up-coming increase in monthly payments explained that the change 
followed its annual review of Mrs Ps mortgage.
Finally, I note that Mrs P has expressed dissatisfaction with the way Halifax dealt with her 
complaint. I can understand her frustration that both Halifax and I have had to reach 
conclusions without sight of the paperwork she signed when she took out the further 
advance and PPI. But businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. And as Ive 
explained above, I dont think its unreasonable that Halifax hasnt been able to provide 
copies of those documents so long after the event. Mrs P says she doesnt consider that 
Halifax  addressed her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. She doesnt believe it was 
investigated thoroughly, objectively or professionally. But Im satisfied that Halifax dealt 
reasonably with Mrs Ps complaint, and considered the available evidence thoroughly.
I know that Mrs P will be disappointed with my conclusion. But for the reasons Ive set out, I 
dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman