DRN-4478745
The complaint
Miss G complains that Metro Bank PLC allowed a scammer to open and operate an account 
which she believes caused her a loss. 
Miss G has used a representative to bring her complaint. But, for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
just refer to Miss G herself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2022 Miss G was sadly the victim of a 
safe account scam. She was called by someone impersonating her bank (Metro Bank). 
They appeared to be calling from a genuine number associated with Metro Bank which gave 
Miss G confidence she was speaking to a genuine agent. 
She was told her account was at risk from hackers and was ultimately persuaded to move 
her money. Miss G instructed payments from her own Metro Bank account to her own 
account with another business R. And from there, still at the direction of the scammer she 
transferred it into another Metro Bank account. She believed this was necessary to keep her 
money safe. On 4 October 2022 Miss G initially transferred £10 and then followed this with 
£18,300 both to the same Metro Bank account. When Miss G realised shed been the victim 
of a scam, she reported this to the relevant parties including the police. 
Ultimately both Metro Bank and R declined to offer any redress and Miss G complained. 
Both complaints were considered by one of our Investigators. He didnt recommend that the 
complaint about Metro Bank should be upheld. Miss G disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing for Miss G, so Ill explain why. Im satisfied that Metro Bank 
conducted appropriate electronic checks when opening the account. Ive also seen evidence 
of the valid identity documents they took when doing so. I dont think they reasonably could 
have known at that point, that the account would later go on to be used in connection with a 
fraud or scam. So, I dont think Metro Bank failed when opening the recipient account. 
Ive also reviewed the activity on the recipient account both before and soon after the arrival 
of Miss Gs money. But there was nothing so unusual or suspicious in the account activity 
such that I think Metro Bank ought to have done more or reasonably could have prevented 
Miss Gs loss. When her large payment credited the account it was promptly paid away. But 
this activity wasnt unusual for this particular account, it was a continuation of the way in 
which it was used. So I cant say this would have stood out as unusual or suspicious to 
Metro Bank at the time. 
I appreciate Miss G thinks the prior instances of money arriving and being spent from the 
account might have been other victims of the same or similar scams. But Ive confirmed with 
Metro Bank that the previous payments which established this pattern of account usage all 
had the named accountholder as the intended beneficiary for the incoming payments, and 
more importantly that theyve never received allegations of a fraud or scam in relation to 
those payments. So based on this, I cant conclude those payments were anything other 
than authorised use of the account. 
Im also satisfied that by the time Metro Bank were on notice (either from Miss G or R) of the 
problem with the payments that the funds had all already been spent / moved on from the 
account. So, I dont think Metro Bank could have done more regarding recovery from the 
recipient account. Im sorry to hear Miss G has been the victim of a scam. But as I dont think 
Metro Bank failed (in the context of this complaint) in its handling of matters in such a way 
that it caused or contributed to Miss Gs loss, I cant fairly require them to do more to resolve 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman