DRN-2768326
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here was 
about three and a half years old and had already completed about 34,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to show some limited signs of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Im persuaded there are faults here that 
were present when the car was supplied because Mr P reported them within days of taking 
out his agreement. 
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a car in those 
circumstances. MotoNovo had that opportunity when they tried to repair the car in October 
2020. But Im persuaded that the rattling noise wasnt rectified because the independent 
inspector was still able to identify that fault when he inspected the car in January 2021. He 
said There was also an undue rattling noise from the centre console area
The inspector didnt think it was likely the rattling had been present when the car was 
supplied but, as Mr P had been complaining about it from the beginning, I think it is likely to 
have been present at that point.
The independent inspector was also asked to look at:
an issue with the head unit - the cd is rolling.
The inspector didnt explicitly refer to the CD rolling but he does refer to the head unit. He 
says:
We first checked the function of the eject button on the CD head unit. This revealed the 
eject button was noted to be sticking and The (eject) button appeared to be sticking when 
travelling over speed bumps, causing it to activate.
On balance, Im persuaded this probably relates to the issue Mr P had been complaining 
about all along and that doesnt appear to have been satisfactorily repaired in October 2020.
So, I think there is evidence of two faults that have been present from the beginning and that 
havent been repaired.
Mr P has also complained that the GARDex treatment that was also financed under the 
agreement, was not of satisfactory quality. He complained about this within the first month 
and Im persuaded that the repair wasnt of a satisfactory quality because Ive seen 
photographs taken subsequently which show overspray and a dirty finger mark. 
So, I think this car wasnt of satisfactory quality and as repairs have failed I think Mr P should 
now be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should collect the car at no cost to Mr P and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr P has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr P has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and arrange to attend the independent inspection. Hes also 
had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. 
In those circumstances MotoNovo should pay him £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Ive reviewed the mileage Mr P has completed in the car and I think hes had reasonable use 
of it, and I can see he was kept mobile when his car was being repaired. So, Im not asking 
MotoNovo to refund any finance instalments as its only fair Mr P pays for the use hes had 
from the car.   
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman