DRN-1545884
complaint
Mr W says Barclays Bank plc mis-sold him two payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies. 
The credit cards and PPI were taken out in June 1995. The policies were added when Mr W 
applied for two cards (a Visacard and a Mastercard).
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr W, Barclays had to make it clear the policy was optional. It also 
had to get Mr Ws agreement to take it. Mr W says he wasnt told that PPI was being added 
to either card and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the application if he knew it had been 
added. 
Barclays says the credit cards and PPI were taken out in branch. As the credit card and PPI 
were taken out during a meeting, I dont know what was discussed. Where I have limited 
information about a sale, I must decide what I think is more likely based on the information 
and evidence I have seen. 
Barclays has provided a copy of the application form Mr W completed at the time. The 
application was for two credit cards  a Visa and a Mastercard, with separate PPI policies 
attached to each card. Ive considered this form in light of Mr Ws comments. The form isnt 
particularly clear, but I can see it has a separate section called Payment Protection Plan 
and this is followed by a statement about the cover. This appears to be followed by the 
option to tick either Yes or No for the cover. On Mr Ws form I can see that the Yes box 
has been ticked. There is nothing within the statement about the PPI which says it is needed 
in order for the credit card application to be approved and if Mr W didnt want the PPI the 
No option was also available. 
I think its most likely the details on the form wouldve been discussed before Mr Ws 
application was submitted. I also wouldve expected Mr W to read over this form and raise 
any questions he had at the time before signing it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr W knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. 
Barclays advised Mr W to take out the policies. So it shouldve made sure the policies 
were right for him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time the PPI 
was sold, I think they were.
I say this because Mr W appears to have been eligible for the policies. And based on what 
Mr Ws told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he   wouldnt have been affected 
by any of the things the policies didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual 
employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him claiming the full benefit of the 
policies if hed needed to.
Mr W says he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer if he was off work sick. 
He also says he wouldve received a redundancy package if he lost his job. I still think the 
PPI couldve been of use to Mr W as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on 
the card for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to illness or if he was made redundant. 
This wouldve been on top of any employer benefits he may have got, meaning he 
wouldve been able to use this for other everyday living expenses.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable to Mr W. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled the policies at any time if anything in 
his circumstances changed.
As well as checking the policies were suitable for Mr W, Barclays also shouldve given him 
clear information about the policies so that he could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take them out. I dont know what steps Barclays took to do this and its possible some 
things werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer 
information wouldve changed Mr Ws decision. I think hed still have bought them. I say this 
for the same reasons I think the policies were suitable for him.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change my decision 
and for the reasons set out above I dont think the policies were mis-sold. I know this will be
disappointing for Mr W, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman