DRN-3789753
The complaint
Mr J and Ms M complain about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
They are unhappy that Barclays wont refund them money that Ms M lost to a scam from 
their joint account and her sole account. They think that Barclays should have done more to 
protect them from the scam.
Mr J and Ms M are represented by a third party in this complaint but as Mr M had all the 
dealings with the scammers, for ease of reading, Ill refer to her alone throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Ms M was contacted by someone on LinkedIn  they struck up a conversation regarding a 
professional interest of Ms M and developed an online friendship. 
This then led to the scammer introducing the idea of Ms M investing in Cryptocurrency. 
Ms M says that while she was cautious at first, the scammer persuaded her to invest, and 
that if questioned by her bank, that she should say that the payments she was making were 
for goods and services. 
In total, Ms M was persuaded to make payments totalling £40,385.35.
Ms M complained to Barclays when she realised they had been scammed. Barclays didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Ms M disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing, so Ill explain why.
Was Ms M the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Ms M was the victim of a scam. She was taken in by 
the promise of investment returns that didnt materialise by a scammer posing as a broker. 
The scammer took steps to befriend and persuade Ms M that he was genuine  and also 
provided her with a cover story to use should Barclays question her.
Did Ms M authorise the payments?
I need to decide if Ms M authorised the payments that were made to purchase the crypto. In 
line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms M isnt liable for payments she 
didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms of 
the account or keep her personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Ms M authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, I dont think that Ms M authorised the payments is in dispute here. Barclays 
spoke with her on several occasions where she confirmed that she was the one making the 
payments. I understand that Ms M had been tricked by the scammer into instructing Barclays 
to make the payments  but while Ms M never intended the payments to go to the 
scammers, this doesnt change the fact that she authorised them and is therefore presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Ms M made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays to have done anything 
further until it had been notified that there was a scam. Ms M made six payments in total, 
four by her debit card, and two by faster payment.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Barclays) and the merchant (for the first four 
payments, C, the provider of the crypto Ms Ms payments bought).
However, I dont think a chargeback wouldve ever been successful.  This is because C 
provided the service that was requested of it which was providing crypto  and this was 
provided to an account in Ms Ms name. Similarly, while Barclays could have contacted the 
merchant for the fifth and sixth payments  F, who Ms M paid via faster payment, again the 
service of providing crypto had been completed. So, F had done what was asked of it here 
too. 
While I understand that Ms M then went on to move the crypto to another wallet which was 
in the control of the scammer, this isnt the fault of C or F and therefore, I dont think 
Barclays could have recovered any of the payments in dispute.
Should Barclays have prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Ms M made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Ms M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The initial payment Ms M made, which was on 1 October 2021 and for £494.08, was of 
relatively low value  and not that unusual for the pattern of regular spending on Ms Ms sole 
account  so I wouldnt have expected Barclays to intervene here.
However, when Ms M made another payment on 3 October 2021, this time from the joint 
account held with Mr J, Barclays blocked the payment and spoke with Ms M. Barclays also 
placed blocks on the next four payments that Ms M made  and spoke with her on each 
occasion.
Barclays has provided call recordings from the conversations it had with Ms M regarding the 
payments. 
During these calls, Barclays questioned Ms M about the payments she was attempting to 
make and surrounding context  the intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or 
scam.
Ms M was very uncooperative with Barclays  and at times quite obstructive to the questions 
she was being asked. Barclays attempted to question her about why she was making these 
types of payments  and whether she had been contacted of persuaded to do so. It also 
attempted to warn her that a lot of people have lost money to scams involving crypto.
But Ms M wasnt truthful with the answers she gave  and it seems that she was so taken in 
by the scam she had become victim to that she wanted to continue regardless of what 
Barclays was saying to her. 
I understand that Ms M has said that the answers she gave shouldve alerted Barclays to the 
fact that Ms M was the victim of a scam  and it should have blocked the payments. But I 
dont agree. Ms M said that she was already in receipt of the goods she said she was 
making the payments for  which wasnt true. But Barclays did highlight to her that it was 
very unusual to make payments for goods in this way. And even though Ms M knew what 
she had said wasnt true, she still wasnt persuaded to stop making these payments.
So, I dont think that Barclays could have done any more than it did, and it didnt miss an 
opportunity to stop Ms M making the payments. I also dont think (based on Ms Ms 
conversation with Barclays) that it could have reasonably concluded she had fallen victim to 
a scam. She was adamant about making the payments and also clear she was in receipt of 
the goods shed paid for. I dont think Barclays had reasonable grounds to conclude that 
what she was saying  whilst unusual  wasnt truthful. 
I do have sympathy for the situation that Ms M now finds herself in  she has been the victim 
of cruel scam  this is not in dispute. However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused by the 
scammers themselves  not Barclays. And I cant ask Barclays to refund this loss when I 
think it provided meaningful warnings  as far as it reasonably could  and Ms M chose to ignore them.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman