DRN-2640394
The complaint
Mr T says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, irresponsibly lent to him. He said 
that he already had a high volume of payday loans against his name when Lending Stream 
lent to him. He thinks Lending Stream should have seen this and not approved the loan he 
took.
Mr T also says that Lending Stream issued a default against him which he thinks is unfair. 
And it didnt properly inform him that it was going to do this. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Mr T on 
12 February 2018. The loan was for £700 and Mr T was due to make six monthly 
repayments. The highest of these was the first repayment which was £296.80. The others 
were for lower amounts at around £200. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the checks Lending Stream has 
made were proportionate, given what Mr T had told it about his income and expenditure 
when compared against the loan repayments. It also acted correctly in respect of the default 
notice it applied to Mr Ts account. 
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said the overriding issue that needed to be 
looked at was that it was extremely clear at the time the loan was approved that he was in a 
royal mess with payday loans. He maintained Lending Stream should have seen this and 
not lent to him. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mr T could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, 
there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr T provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr T said he had a monthly income of £2,600 and he had regular monthly outgoings of £960. 
So, in the first instance it would have been reasonable for Lending Stream to think that the 
loan repayments were affordable. 
Lending Stream also did some credit checks, and Ive seen the information it obtained from 
these. They did show that Mr T did have some problems making other debt repayments in 
the past, but these didnt seem to be especially problematic. And I dont think Lending 
Stream shouldve acted differently due to this information. I appreciate this information may 
not have accurately reflected Mr Ts situation. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware 
of any financial problems Mr T mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate his circumstances further. 
As our adjudicator outlined, the checks a business does before lending should be 
proportionate at the time of application. What this means in practice is that at an early point 
in the lending relationship a business may not need to make in-depth checks. I think this 
applies here given this was Mr Ts first loan application and the amounts borrowed seemed 
reasonable compared to what Mr T told it about his financial situation. So, I dont think 
Lending Stream needed to look into Mr Ts financial circumstances with the degree of detail 
that might have highlighted his problems. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information it obtained. In 
these circumstances, I think the assessment Lending Stream did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable.
Our adjudicator outlined the steps Lending Stream took before adding the default to Mr Ts 
account. I agree that these steps were reasonable. Mr T didnt comment on this after the 
adjudicators opinion and I note that in earlier correspondence he said that is was fair for 
Lending Stream to add the default. So, I wont comment on this in detail save to say I dont 
think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in respect of the default. 
So, I think Lending Streams decisions to lend for this loan, and how it administered his 
account, were reasonable and Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman