DRN-3551688
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr S was looking to buy a campervan and found one he was interested in advertised for sale 
on an online marketplace. He contacted the seller and was sent a number of documents and 
photos of the campervan before ultimately agreeing to buy it. He sent a payment of £4,170 
to the payment details the seller gave him and was told the campervan would be delivered to 
him the following week. But, when it didnt arrive, Mr S realised this was a scam.
Co-op is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, except in limited circumstances. Co-op 
investigated Mr Ss case but said one or more of the exceptions applies. It said Mr S had 
ignored an effective warning and had made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing it was legitimate, so he wasnt entitled to a refund under the CRM code. Mr S 
wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response, so brought a complaint to our service.
I sent Mr S and Co-op a provisional decision on 13 May 2022 to explain why I felt the 
complaint should be upheld in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Co-op 
should have reimbursed Mr S under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Co-op is a signatory to the CRM code. The CRM code requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr S have a reasonable basis for belief?
Mr S found a campervan he was interested in online and contacted the seller. During his 
communication with the seller he was sent a number of documents, including a copy of the 
sellers driving license, an invoice and sales contract, a vehicle inspection report and a 
number of photos of the campervan. And I think these all looked relatively legitimate.
But I think the price the campervan was being sold for should have caused Mr S significant 
concern. He agreed to purchase the campervan for just over £4,000. But information weve 
received from professional vehicle valuers shows that make and model of campervan should 
be valued at over £15,000 if it was in reasonable condition, and over £10,000 if it was in 
below average condition. And even this lower valuation is more than twice the price Mr S 
agreed.
Mr S told us he looked at a few different listings and that it was difficult to judge the market 
as he didnt know a great deal about campervans and there were many different makes and 
models available. But hes not been able to show us any specific examples of other similar 
listings at similar prices, apart from one he accepts had a significantly higher mileage. And, 
from what Ive seen of the market, the only other listings I can find at similar prices are for 
significantly older or significantly less-valuable models.
So I think the price of this campervan was significantly below market value and was too good 
to be true. I think this should have caused Mr S significant concern. And, without some clear 
and convincing explanation for why this campervan was being sold so far below market 
value, I think this means he did not have a reasonable basis for believing that the payment 
he was making was for genuine goods.
Did Co-op meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money he lost if Co-op didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Due to the size of this payment, I think Co-op was required to provide an effective warning 
here. And Co-op has sent us a copy of the warning it showed Mr S, which said:
Are the bank details youre making a payment to new, or recently changed?
Scammers pose as genuine organisations and trick you to transfer money. Call the payee to 
double-check it is them. Always use the number you find on their official website.
If you have been contacted unexpectedly and asked to transfer money, this is likely to be a 
scam and you shouldnt continue.While the warning does say scammers can pose as genuine organisations, the actions it 
suggests to address the risk werent helpful in Mr Ss circumstances as he had spoken to the 
scammers on the phone and checked their website. And the rest of the warning is mostly 
about scams where someone is asked to make an unexpected payment or where the 
payment details have recently changed, which isnt relevant here. So I dont think this 
warning was effective in Mr Ss circumstances.
Overall then, I dont think Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
but I also dont think Co-op met its obligations under the CRM code. I therefore think the 
correct outcome under the CRM code is that Co-op refund Mr S 50% of the loss he suffered, 
plus 8% interest from the date his claim was declined until the date of settlement.
Should Co-op have done more to protect Mr S?
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM code, when Mr S made this payment, Co-op 
should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). But given the size and nature of the payment, I dont think Co-op should reasonably 
have been expected to do any more to protect Mr S here.
Recovery of funds
Ive also considered whether Co-op could have done more to recover Mr Ss funds once it 
was made aware of the scam. But Co-ops notes show it contacted the bank the payment 
went to on the same day Mr S told it about the scam, as has been told no funds remain. So I 
dont think Co-op could have done more to recover Mr Ss funds.
I said Id consider anything further Mr S and Co-op sent in following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op didnt send in anything further following the provisional decision.
Mr S responded, saying he looked online for campervans and that there were many vehicles 
available for a lower price than he agreed to pay. He also said the lockdown at the time 
meant there were a lot of people desperate for money and so a lot of things were selling for 
less than they had before. But it appears that, generally, the demand for and cost of 
campervans increased during the lockdown  which would make it less likely that Mr S could 
find one for significantly below market value. And, in any event, I dont doubt that there were 
other vehicles listed at a similar or lower price than he agreed to pay. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, from what Ive seen of the market, these were significantly older or less-
valuable models than Mr S was buying.
Mr S has still not been able to show us any specific examples of other similar listings, of 
similar makes and models to the campervan he was buying, in similar condition and at 
similar prices to what he agreed. So I still think the price of this campervan was significantly 
below market value and was too good to be true. And I still think this means Mr S didnt have 
a reasonable basis for believing that the payment he was making was for genuine goods.
Mr S also said Co-op has since told him it wont release payments of large amounts without 
first confirming with the customer whether the payment is genuine, and that its stopped 
payments hes tried to make that were smaller than this one. He thinks Co-op should have stopped this payment until it had spoken to him. But I said in my provisional decision that, 
given the size and nature of this payment, I didnt think Co-op should reasonably have been 
expected to do any more to protect Mr S here. So, even though it may have stopped other, 
smaller payments, I dont think Co-op needed to stop this payment or ask Mr S any further 
questions before allowing it to go through.
I appreciate how Mr S feels about this case. He was the victim of a cruel scam and I 
understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But I still think the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct. I think the correct outcome under 
the CRM code is that Co-op refund Mr S 50% of the loss he suffered, plus 8% interest from 
the date his claim was declined until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require The Co-operative 
Bank Plc to:
 Refund Mr S 50% of the loss he suffered as a result of the scam
 Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date his claim was initially declined 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman