DRN-1848080
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs S complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA didnt settle their claim against 
their annual, multi-trip policy in full following the cancellation of their trip. Reference to IPA 
includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr Ws annual, multi-trip policy renewed automatically. Mrs S is insured under 
the policy. Before renewal, IPA sent Mr W a renewal reminder, which Ill refer to in more 
detail below. 
In January 2019, Mr W and Mrs S booked a trip with an intended departure date in       
March 2019. In February 2019, Mrs S was advised not to fly, so Mr W and Mrs S cancelled 
their trip. They made a claim against their policy. 
IPA said that Mrs S hadnt disclosed cryotherapy for skin tags. It said that if she had done 
so, the policy wouldnt have been available to them. IPA says that if it had known the true 
position, it would have completed medical screening with Mrs S and offered Mr W and Mrs S 
a different policy with a higher premium. 
IPA settled the claim on a proportionate basis, which meant that, as Mr W and Mrs S paid    
66.08% of the premium they should have paid, it paid 66.08% of their claim.  
Mr W and Mrs S dont think that IPA has treated them fairly, so they pursued their complaint. 
They want IPA to settle their claim in full and compensation for the time spent dealing with 
this matter. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had treated 
Mr W and Mrs S unfairly. The investigator said that if Mrs S had disclosed cryotherapy for 
skin tags, IPA wouldnt have offered her this policy. He thought that IPA had acted fairly in 
settling the claim on a proportionate basis. 
Mr W and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view. Mr W said: 
Skin tags are a cosmetic condition, not a medical one and dont need to be declared 
as they dont affect health. 
Cryotherapy isnt surgery: its a cosmetic procedure. 
There were contradictions in what IPA says must be disclosed. 
Skin tags are common in women, so the policy automatically excludes half the 
population. 
There was further correspondence, which I wont set out here. The investigator didnt change 
his view and Mr W asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA thinks Mr W and Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they didnt tell it about the cryotherapy Mrs S had in 2017. 
Ive looked at the renewal notification which said: 
Please be aware that your current insurance policy will not be suitable for renewal if 
anyone you wish to insure on the policy has: 
(a) Suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed medication or 
treatment including surgery, tests or investigations within the last 5 years; 
and/or
(b) Is awaiting a diagnosis, treatment, tests or investigations for any medical 
conditions, or suffering symptoms that have not yet been discussed with a 
doctor.
If either of the above situations apply, please let us know as your cover may be 
affected.
An insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk its willing to insure and, under this policy, 
IPA doesnt wish to insure policyholders who have had treatment for a medical condition in 
the previous five years.
I think that Mr W and Mrs S omitted to tell IPA about Mrs S cryotherapy in 2017. Im satisfied 
that skin tags are a medical condition for which Mrs S required treatment within five years of 
the renewal of the policy. I note what Mr W says about skin tags being a cosmetic condition, 
but I think hes confusing the condition and the possible treatment. Whilst the treatment for 
skin tags may be regarded as cosmetic, that doesnt alter the outcome here as Mrs S had a 
medical condition for which she required treatment within the relevant time frame. If IPA had known the true position, it wouldnt have renewed Mr W and Mrs S policy. 
Instead, it would have asked Mrs S a set of medical screening questions which would have 
prompted Mr W and Mrs S to tell it about Mrs S cryotherapy for skin tags. IPA would then 
have offered Mr W and Mrs S a different policy at a higher cost. This means Im satisfied that 
the misrepresentation in this case was a qualifying one in terms of CIDRA.
I think that Mr W and Mrs S made a misrepresentation under CIDRA in relation to Mrs S 
treatment for skin tags. This means that IPA is entitled to apply the relevant remedy 
available to it under CIDRA.
In this situation, where IPA would have charged a higher premium if it had known about    
Mrs S medical history, IPA is entitled to proportionately reduce the amount it pays for the 
claim. I understand that Mrs S was advised not to fly because of an unrelated medical 
condition but IPAs remedy under CIDRA applies regardless of whether or not Mr W and  
Mrs S claim related to Mrs S undeclared medical history. 
CIDRA sets out a formula for calculating what the proportionate reduction of a claim should 
be. This is the premium actually paid, divided by the premium that would have been charged 
x 100. Mr W and Mrs S paid a premium of £34.16 but if IPA had known the true position, it 
would have charged them £51.69. Im satisfied that IPA has calculated the proportionate 
reduction in Mr W and Mrs S claim correctly (£34.16/£51.69 x 100 = 66.08%).
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W and Mrs S but I dont think IPA has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman