DRN-4119667
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him without carrying 
out the right checks to see he could not afford the credit. 
What happened
Mr S took two loans and here is a brief loan table. The table shows the highest instalment 
repayable  usually those being in the first two instalments due to be made  and thereafter 
reduced as the interest element became lower. DMP means a debt management plan. 
Loan 2 was repaid in October 2022. 
Loan Approved Amount Highest 
instalment 
dueNumber of 
monthly 
instalmentsRepaid
1 22 September 
2021£200 £107.60 4 28 October 2021
2 29 October 2021 £400 £156. 26 6  DMP from 
February 2022
Mr Lender received Mr S complaint and issue a final response letter (FRL) in 
November 2022 in which it gave reasons as to why it considered it had done nothing wrong. 
It did not uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr S has said that at the 
time he took loan 2 then he had several other loans and Mr Lender ought to have known 
that. He has forwarded to us copies of bank account statements covering the lending period 
and a bit before that. He has sent to us his personal credit file dated November 2022. 
One of our adjudicators did not think that the evidence demonstrated Mr Lender had done 
anything wrong. Mr S disagreed as he pointed out that:
- in the second loan application he declared his income was £500 lower than what hed 
declared for his first loan and so Mr Lender ought to have checked his income; and
- when he requested loan 2, it went straight to the underwriters who didnt check his 
credit score as he said he already had six other loans. Mr Lender should have 
checked more; and
- six other lenders agreed to refund him the interest and Mr Lender was the only one 
who didnt want to refund it.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr S income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period (reflecting the 
risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. But I do not consider that this 
repeat lending issue arises in Mr S circumstances as he took two loans only.  
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr S complaint. I have decided not to uphold the 
complaint and I explain in the decision as to why. 
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £200 which was a modest amount. This was the first loan application Mr S 
had made to Mr Lender and so as a new customer it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely 
on the information Mr S gave to it as part of his application. It seemed from the declared 
income and expenditure for loan 1 that Mr S was able to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr S declared a £3,500 monthly income after tax and expenditure of £1,528 of which £646 
Mr S had declared as being for loan/credit commitment repayments. 
Mr Lender did do a credit check to consider if Mr S had enough to cover the cost of the loan 
which was relatively modest at £200 and was for a four month instalment agreement. And although the credit search results Mr Lender has sent to us are brief, it indicates that 
Mr Lender had no reasons to be concerned. There was no indication of any insolvencies or 
any other public records  such as County Court Judgments  about which Mr Lender had 
been informed. 
So, Mr Lender would have been aware of the declared cost on other credit commitments and 
it had carried out its own research. Still, it considered that with a disposable income of 
around £1,972 each month then Mr S was able to afford a loan where the highest repayment 
in the four month term was around £107. 
I consider that Mr Lenders checks were proportionate to the loan and the position of that 
application in the lending chain and I do not uphold Mr S complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was made the next day in late October 2021. Mr S has made a point about his 
declared income being £500 lower for the loan 2 application. Although I would not have 
expected Mr Lender to have asked for, or reviewed, bank account statements, for me to 
check this income point I have utilised the information Mr S provided to us to see what it is 
that Mr Lender may have discovered if it had checked Mr S income. 
On 28 September 2021, Mr S income into his account was £3,924 and on 28 October 2021 
the salary was £2,848.52. So there had been a drop. But I note that in August 2021 Mr S 
had a salary credit of over £4,000. So, the most that Mr Lender would have divined from that 
research, if it had done it, was that Mr S salary varied from £2,800 to £4,000. This would not 
have been a reason to refuse the loan for £400. 
Using the salary declared  which appeared to have been broadly accurate (£3,000) - then 
at loan 2 Mr S declared that he had outgoings of £1,930 of which £688 was spent on other 
credit commitment costs. The other declared expenditure items included mortgage/rent, 
utilities, food and travel costs, council tax, telephone and other. That would have left a 
disposable income of around £1,070 and so Mr Lender would have considered loan 2 
affordable. 
Mr Lender did do a credit check and it knew that Mr S had already told it he had credit 
commitment costs. Its own research showed that he had one outstanding AAI which 
Mr Lender has explained to mean Advance against Income, in other words a payday loan. 
None of this information nor the research Mr Lender carried out would have precipitated it to 
have needed or to have asked to review Mr S bank account statements. I would have 
considered it disproportionate for this value of loan and at this juncture in the lending 
relationship  loan 2. 
I do not uphold Mr S complaint about loan 2. 
Other points
Mr S has said that hes complained to other lenders and he has told us that all six have 
refunded him the interest on the loans. 
I do not know the reasons why other lenders have made those decisions  each is particular 
to its own circumstances. 
And the outcome of other complaints  - which may not have been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  are not ones which are going to influence how I approach this complaint with Mr Lender. Those other lenders may have had their own reasons for 
responding to Mr S complaints in their own ways. Ive no details and even if I did this 
complaint by Mr S against Mr Lender has been referred to us and we have approached it in 
the way that we approach all irresponsible lending complaints. 
I have checked our case management file records and I have noted that Mr S referred one 
other complaint to us which resulted in a non-uphold.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman