DRN-3696872
The complaint
Mr H complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Sainsburys Bank PLC 
didnt do enough to stop that happening or to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr H complains that Sainsburys wont refund the money that he lost as a result of an 
investment scam. After responding to an advert online which included a celebrity 
endorsement, he encountered a broker claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as M. 
After speaking with the broker, he used his Sainsburys Mastercard to pay £4,580 (plus a 
£125.95 fee) to a company Ill refer to as S.
Sainsburys initially blocked the payment and contacted Mr H. During the call the agent told 
Mr H the money was being paid to S; an accountant based in Bulgaria. Mr H told the agent 
he thought he was paying M and he didnt know who S was. He also said he was investing in 
stocks and shares to generate cash. Sainsburys allowed the payment to be processed and 
then blocked subsequent attempted payments later the same day. 
When Mr H realised, hed fallen victim to a scam he asked Sainsburys to refund the first 
payment, but Sainsburys said it wouldnt raise a chargeback under Mastercards chargeback 
scheme because the transaction wasnt covered under the regulations. It also said he was 
unable to make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 because his 
contract with S had been to deposit the funds into the trading account and this had been 
fulfilled. It accepted it had taken longer than expected to respond to Mr Hs concerns, so it 
credited his account with £25. 
Mr H complained to this service arguing Sainsburys was jointly and severally liable for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the merchant and that he was also eligible to 
raise a request under Mastercards chargeback scheme.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He agreed there were no 
chargeback rights available to Mr H due to the nature of the payment, but he thought 
Sainsburys shouldve done more following the first payment. This is because, during the call 
Mr H told Sainsburys about the involvement of M and at the time there was a warning about 
M on the FCA register. Our investigator felt that if Sainsburys had told Mr H about this or 
advised him to undertake some research, it wouldve made a difference to his decision to go 
ahead with the payment. Consequently, he recommended that Sainsburys should refund the 
payment.
Sainsburys has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, arguing Mr H 
wasnt a victim of fraud. It has said the money was paid to an investment platform and that 
even though there was a risk involved, there are risks with any investment, and this was 
simply a poor investment choice. 
Sainsburys explained it had identified the first transaction as one of concern, placed a block 
on the account, and contacted Mr H to make sure he was happy to proceed.  During the call, 
it couldnt determine if S was a legitimate company, so it couldnt give him a warning. It said 
Mr H had no concerns and there were no FCA warnings about S, so its agent provided Mr H 
with all the information it had about S. This included the fact there had been multiple 
unsuccessful attempts to take funds and they were based in Bulgaria and recorded as being 
involved in accountancy and financial services. It had also reminded Mr H that companies 
may misrepresent themselves or the services they provide and that he should perform 
suitable checks before making any transaction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (i.e. Sainsburys) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr H).
Sainsburys didnt raise a chargeback because S had fulfilled their obligations to deposit the 
funds into a trading account, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Section 75 applies when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement meaning the 
payments must go directly to the final supplier for it to apply. In this case, as the payment 
went via a legitimate merchant (S), the required debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken 
because the supplier that Mr H says misrepresented themselves (M) was not a party to the 
payments. There appears to be no dispute that S provided the service it was required to 
provide, so I dont consider a Section 75 claim had a reasonable prospect of success.
Should Sainsburys refund any money?
Theres no dispute that the payment was authorised by Mr H. This is because it was made 
by him using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by Sainsburys. Mr H believes 
hes entitled to a refund because, even though he authorised the payments, he was the 
victim of a scam and Sainsburys should have either done more to stop that happening or to 
help him get the money back.
Banks have various and long-standing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. But these are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. So, my first consideration must be whether M was operating a scam as Mr H alleges.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered this, and I am persuaded that at the relevant time M was operating 
a scam. This is because at the time Mr H made the payment to S, there was a warning about 
M on the FCA register and as it was providing financial services in the UK, its likely they 
were operating a scam. 
Mr H tried to make the first payment to S on 8 October and on 10 October, Sainsburys 
blocked the payment and contacted him to discuss it. During the call, there was a discussion 
about both M and S, with Sainsburys agent telling Mr H that S was registered in Bulgaria. 
But, in failing to further explore with Mr H the circumstances around Ms involvement, Im 
satisfied the agent missed an opportunity to alert Mr H to the risks associated with the 
payment he wanted to make. I think its reasonable to expect the agent to have suggested to 
Mr H that should investigate M further and, if this had happened, I think its likely hed have 
seen the FCA warning and decided against going ahead with the payment. Consequently, I 
think Sainsburys should refund the payment, the associated fee and interest.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. My decision is that Sainsburys 
Bank PLC should:
 Refund Mr H £4,580 (plus the £125.95 fee).
  Pay 8% simple interest a year on the refund, from the time of the payment until the time it 
is refunded.
HM Revenue & Customs may require Sainsburys to deduct tax from the interest it pays Mr 
H. If it does, and if Mr H requests it, Sainsburys should provide him with a certificate showing 
how much tax it has taken off so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman