DRN-4000778
The complaint
Miss B complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance irresponsibly 
granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2018, Miss B acquired a used car financed by a Hire Purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo Finance. Miss B was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £175. 
The total repayable under the agreement was around £10,503.
Miss B says that MotoNovo Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says 
if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Miss B says that at the time of 
the loan she was making payments through debt management companies for other debts, 
was gambling and borrowing from high-cost lenders. MotoNovo Finance said that it carried 
out an assessment which included asking Miss B about her employment and income. It said 
Miss Bs credit score met its criteria and that she signed a declaration saying the agreement 
was affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought MotoNovo Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss B didnt agree and said that she was living month by month due to her gambling 
addiction. She said her bank statements showed the cash withdrawals she used to fund her 
gambling. Miss B said her income varied and that her credit file showed that she had 
financial difficulties.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
MotoNovo Finance hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore 
relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Miss B. The most relevant credit report provided 
is from May 2020 and so while this wont provide details of everything that may have been 
identified by a credit check at the time of lending (and I note Miss Bs comments about 
lending being removed following a successful claim) I think this gives a good indication of 
what MotoNovo Finance would likely have seen. At the time of the application, it shows that 
Miss B had some historic defaults (from 2014, 2016 and 2017) and had been making use of 
several high-cost lenders. While I note most of the defaults had been settled prior to this 
application she did still have loans outstanding, and I think this credit history ought to have 
indicated that Miss B was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for MotoNovo Finance to have got a more thorough understanding of Miss Bs 
financial circumstances before lending.
MotoNovo Finance asked Miss B about her employment and income before approving the 
finance and this gave a monthly income figure of around £1,868 based on an annual income 
of £28,000. Given the term of the loan and noting the financial issues Miss B had previously 
experienced I think it would have been reasonable to have carried out further verification of 
this amount. I note Miss Bs comments about her income varying but I can see from the 
evidence provided that had further verification taken place the figure of around £1,868 
wouldnt have been found unreasonable. I also note that having looked through Miss Bs 
bank statements she was also receiving money from an individual of over £1,000 a month. 
This was additional income or could be considered as a possible contribution to bills.  
MotoNovo Finance didnt ask Miss B about her expenditure. Without knowing what Miss Bs 
regular committed expenditure was, including her existing credit commitments, MotoNovo 
Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was 
affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Miss B would have told MotoNovo Finance had it asked about her 
regular expenditure, and I note her comments about what she would have declared given 
her need for a car. I dont think MotoNovo Finance needed to request bank statements, but 
in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in 
Miss Bs statements along with the other information she has provided as an indication of 
what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Miss Bs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £1,500. In 
calculating this figure, Ive included amounts for Miss Bs other credit commitments, 
insurances and bills as noted in her statements as well as the amounts for food and fuel 
based on the amounts Miss B has provided. Taking these figures into account, it appears to 
show the agreement was affordable to Miss B. For this reason, Im not persuaded that 
MotoNovo Finance acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
I am sorry to hear about Miss Bs gambling addiction and I understand the seriousness of 
this and the impact it will have had. But MotoNovo Finance wasnt required to ask for copies 
of her bank statements and based on her comments I do not find it likely that she would 
have offered this information had she been asked about her expenses. Therefore, based on 
the evidence I have seen, I do not find that MotoNovo Finance should have been reasonably 
aware that Miss B had a gambling addiction at the time and as I find that adequate checks 
would have suggested the agreement was affordable, I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman