DRN-4227942
The complaint
Mr M complains about how TSB Bank plc dealt with a debit card transaction.
What happened
Mr M says he tried to make a payment for just over £36 in March 2023. He says the 
transaction was blocked and TSB sent him a message to try it again. Mr M says TSB told 
him it could remove the pending payment but the money was still taken a few days later. 
He says that caused his account to become overdrawn which resulted in him being unable to 
work for five days. Mr M questions if TSBs text message was altered and would like 
compensation for what took place as well as for the loss of employment.
TSB says its security measures blocked the initial payment which was then unblocked. It 
accepts it didnt deal with parts of Mr Ms complaint as it should by referring him to various 
departments and giving incorrect information. TSB has paid £50 compensation but says the 
payment was credited before being debited and so there was no actual loss to Mr M. It says 
it also paid a further £40 compensation as Mr Ms account was overdrawn at the time it paid 
the £50 compensation.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought £90 compensation appropriate and that the payment was credited before being 
debited resulting in no loss to Mr M.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he didnt receive the £40 compensation. He also 
says TSB failed to ask him where he wanted the compensation paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint 
by apologising and paying an appropriate compensation amount.
There is no dispute here that TSB didnt deal with parts of this complaint appropriately by 
giving Mr M confusing information and by passing him to various departments. I have no 
doubt Mr M was caused inconvenience and would have spent some time on the telephone to 
TSB. The important point is that TSB has fairly apologised to Mr M and explained what took 
place with the transaction.
Im satisfied Mr M didnt suffer any financial loss and that the payments in and out of his 
account, balance each other out. I appreciate the position would not have been clear initially 
to Mr M but can see that TSBs final response letter is dated some days after what took 
place which explains matters.
The key question for me to decide is the compensation amount. I have made clear that Mr M 
didnt suffer any direct financial loss caused by the transaction issue and that the problem 
was explained to him within some seven days of the initial transaction. So, I have come to 
the overall view that £90 compensation is fair and reasonable and in line with the type and 
amount of awards we would make for this type of issue. I appreciate Mr M says he was 
unable to work for some five days but I have not seen any evidence of that, from for example 
his employer. And in any event, I dont think it would have been reasonable for TSB to pay 
any such amount or that what took place justifies it paying for five days lost income.
I appreciate Mr M says the text message may have been altered. I make clear that I have 
not seen any evidence of that. I also appreciate Mr M says he didnt receive the £40 
compensation and TSB didnt ask him where the payment for the £50 should be made.
I have looked carefully at TSBs records and can see that it e-mailed Mr M on 31 March 
2023 telling him that it had paid the £40 compensation. And I can see from Mr Ms account 
statement that both the £50 and £40 compensation are credited on that day and the 30 
March 2023. I dont think it clear why Mr M says he didnt receive the £40 as he appears to 
have withdrawn it shortly after it was credited to his account. I accept TSB ought to have 
checked which account he wanted the compensation paid into but sorted matters out by 
paying a further £40 compensation which Mr M used and of course had the benefit of the 
earlier payment as it reduced his overdraft.
Overall, I find TSB has fairly dealt with this complaint by apologising and by paying 
appropriate compensation. This now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman