DRN-4230286
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly recorded their secured loan as 
being an unsecured loan.
What happened
In April 2009 Mr B and Mrs B borrowed £74,500 from HSBC. Unfortunately, HSBC has been 
unable to find the loan application and loan agreement, and Mr B and Mrs B have also been 
unable to provide a copy of the original loan agreement or other paperwork. HSBC has been 
able to provide some information from its internal systems, and this shows:
The loan was taken out on an interest-only basis in joint names.
Mr B and Mrs B make their monthly payments of £155.30 from an account held in joint 
names, but as this was an interest-only loan the balance remains outstanding.
The loan was secured under the existing charge that HSBC has held since 2007.
The original term was set at 60 months.
The interest rate quote in January 2009 was 3.50%, and it notes it is 2.00% above base 
rate. At the time the loan completed in April 2009 base rate had dropped to 0.5%, and a 
charging rate of 2.5% (2% above base rate) ties in with the monthly payments of £155 
that Mr B and Mrs B were making.
A redemption statement was issued in 2010 which included this loan account, along with 
the other mortgage accounts.
A letter was sent to Mr B and Mrs B in October 2014 which said (and which ties in with 
the original loan term being 60 months as Ive set out above):
I refer to your secured loan account and your recent telephone conversation with my 
colleague [name].
Following on from that discussion I can confirm the term on this loan account has now 
been extended and will now be due to be repaid in line with your other Mortgage 
accounts.
Please also accept this letter as confirmation that the Bank has taken all the relevant 
steps to ensure that no adverse information has been registered at the Credit Reference 
Agencies in relation to this matter.
The terms came to an end on Mr B and Mrs Bs other two mortgage accounts in June 
and July 2022 respectively.
In July 2021 Mr B and Mrs B spoke to HSBC about extending the term of their mortgage. 
They also approached another lender in August 2021 for a loan, which was declined.
Following the loan application being declined by the other lender Mr B and Mrs B spoke to 
Experian and obtained a copy of their credit report, which showed this HSBC £75,000 loan 
was showing as unsecured rather than secured.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to HSBC that the loan was showing as unsecured, and they 
said it had stopped them recently raising funds due to the impact on their credit files.
HSBC apologised to Mr B and Mrs B, offered them £500 compensation, and said it would 
amend the records so the loan would show as secured, rather than unsecured. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint to the extent that he recommended that HSBC pay 
Mr B and Mrs B another £250. But he did not think it would be fair to ask HSBC to do 
anything more than that.
HSBC accepted that opinion, but Mr B and Mrs B did not. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
In June 2023 I issued my provisional findings, which said:
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider 
is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I trust Mr B and Mrs B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and impartial. We are not consumer 
champions, nor do we carry out a consumer protection role and we dont act either for 
consumers or the financial businesses about which they are complaining. I dont act under 
eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what 
questions should be asked or answered.
I understand Mr B and Mrs B are concerned that HSBC cant find a copy of the original 
agreement for the loan. Its unfortunate that HSBC cant locate a copy of the agreement, 
and its also unfortunate that it seems Mr B and Mrs B didnt keep a copy of their loan 
agreement and other paperwork for their own records.
Fortuitously, HSBC does hold the key information about the loan terms on its internal 
system, screen prints of which weve seen, and the information is as I set out earlier in this 
decision. This shows the key information such as the amount borrowed, that it was on a 
joint basis, the term, that it was interest-only and the interest rate. It also shows the term 
was extended in 2014 to tie in with the other two mortgage accounts. I cant provide copies 
of the internal screen prints to Mr B and Mrs B as theyre not for consumer use, but I can 
reassure them Ive reviewed them carefully and Im satisfied with the information they 
show.Were not the regulator, nor are we a court of law. Im here to decide whats fair and 
reasonable. I cant order HSBC to provide something it doesnt have (that is, the loan 
agreement), and Im satisfied I have enough information to say the loan was taken out in 
joint names and that it should have been secured on Mr B and Mrs Bs property.
It is not in dispute that HSBC reported the loan inaccurately on Mr B and Mrs Bs credit files 
(and HSBC has acknowledged this and corrected the credit file reporting already), so I will 
uphold this complaint. It only remains for me to decide what would be fair compensation in 
this case.
Although it seems apparent that the reporting of the HSBC loan as unsecured played a part 
in the third-party lenders decision to decline Mr B and Mrs Bs application, I cant know for 
sure that it would have been the only reason for that decision. The loan may still have been 
declined anyway for other reasons further along in the process. I have seen no evidence 
that the loan would have been guaranteed to have been granted but for HSBCs error.
Mr B and Mrs B have said theyve been repeatedly turned down for further borrowing since 
2017, but that they never obtained a copy of their credit files to see why as they had no 
reason to believe there was a problem. But being repeatedly turned down for credit ought 
reasonably to have given them reason to believe that there was a problem. It seems 
unusual that they didnt ask, on any of those occasions, why they werent able to get any 
further credit. And if they did ask, and they werent satisfied with the answer, why they 
didnt look into this further.
It is unfortunate that Mr B and Mrs B didnt look into this sooner as, had they done so, Ive 
no reason to believe this wouldnt have been resolved at the time. Whilst HSBC made a 
mistake when it reported this loan as unsecured, it wouldnt have known that mistake had 
been made until it was told and, as I said, it rectified the mistake once notified. I dont think 
this error would have been readily apparent to HSBC staff members, as it seems to have 
been a simple product mis-key that led to the loan being incorrectly reported to the credit 
reference agencies, rather than the entire loan having been set up incorrectly.
As HSBC put things right once it had been notified of the error, then I cant hold it liable for 
the various losses Mr B and Mrs B have mentioned, such as not being able to borrow 
money to fund their roof repairs and needing to take funds from Mr Bs pension pot.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. Were not the regulator; weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our 
awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. 
HSBC has apologised for the mistake and increased its compensation offer to £750 at our 
investigators recommendation and having considered everything Im satisfied thats a fair 
outcome.
I understand Mr B and Mrs B wanted the loan to be marked as in dispute on their credit 
files, and to not have to repay it when they sold the property. But this loan wasnt in dispute 
(they borrowed the money and the debt was still outstanding), and it is secured on their 
property. The complaint Mr B and Mrs B made was that the loan was showing on their 
credit files as unsecured rather than secured, and HSBC put that right when it changed 
how it was reporting the information about this loan.
It seems Mr B and Mrs B are now raising some new issues that werent previously raised 
with HSBC about the original lending, such as whether advice was given. Our rules state 
that a business must be given the opportunity to investigate and respond to any issues 
first, so Mr B and Mrs B should pass any new issues to HSBC as a new complaint if they want them looked into. Mr B and Mrs B may then be able to bring that as a new complaint 
to this service if they remain unhappy with the outcome (subject to our usual rules, of 
course).
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. Mr B and Mrs B responded but didnt raise any new 
points that would alter the outcome of this complaint.
I should remind Mr B and Mrs B at this point that their original complaint was that the loan 
was showing as unsecured on their credit files when it should have been showing as 
secured, so I cant deal with anything that isnt relevant to that point.
Mr B and Mrs B have said that they never received a copy of the loan agreement. Ive dealt 
with the issue that HSBC now cant provide a copy of the loan agreement, but if Mr B and 
Mrs B are now saying that they didnt get a copy when they took out the loan then that is a 
new complaint they would need to raise with HSBC for its consideration.
Mr B and Mrs B have also said that it was only after lodging the complaint with our service 
that HSBC accepted its failure to register the loan correctly on their credit files, but thats not 
true. HSBC issued its final response to the complaint accepting that failing in May 2022 and 
the complaint wasnt referred to us until July 2022.
In respect of Mr B and Mrs Bs comment that the agreement was never registered at the land 
registry I can only refer them back to what I said in the background to this complaint The 
loan was secured under the existing charge that HSBC has held since 2007. As it was 
secured under the 2007 charge a further entry wasnt required  that is entirely normal in the 
mortgage market.
Mr B and Mrs B reiterated what theyd previously said about the impact it had on their ability 
to raise credit and again Ive nothing further to add to what Ive already said in my provisional 
decision. HSBC put this right once it had been notified by Mr B and Mrs B of the error, and it 
had investigated the issue. There could never have been an immediate resolution as HSBC 
needed to work out what had happened over a decade earlier, for which it held limited 
information. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive no reason to believe HSBC wouldnt have put things 
right had Mr B and Mrs B notified it of the problem in the years before the complaint was 
made. It is unfortunate that Mr B and Mrs B didnt look into why theyd been repeatedly 
turned down for credit since 2017, but I cant hold HSBC liable for that as it had no way to 
know about the error unless Mr B and Mrs B notified it.
Finally, we have been given the text of an email from Mrs B in which she said:
To my knowledge this loan was set up to cover a very old overdraft on a business 
account in the name of [Mr B], I was not party to this bank overdraft and should not have 
been party to this loan.
I would question why my name has been put on this loan particularly as it was set up as 
an unsecured loan, the status of this did not change until we realised that the size of the 
unsecured loan was having such a negative impact on the credit rating of myself and 
[Mr B].
This loan account is still open and shows as an available facility, therefore it could not 
have possibly been secured on our property.To clarify, as I explained in my provisional decision, the loan wasnt set up as an unsecured 
loan with the status only changing recently. The loan was always set up as a secured loan, 
there was simply an error that led to it being reported incorrectly to the credit reference 
agencies.
I cant comment on whether or not the loan account is still open and showing as an available 
facility as that is a new point that hasnt previously been raised. If Mr B and Mrs B are 
concerned about that then they can raise that as a new complaint with HSBC if they wish. 
But in terms of this complaint Im satisfied this was always a secured loan (and the original 
complaint made by Mr B and Mrs B was that this was a secured loan, but wasnt being 
reported as one). The fact the facility may show a certain way now doesnt change that.
Finally, the screen prints show this was a jointly held loan. Why it was taken out that way 
would need to form part of a new complaint to HSBC about the general sale of the loan, 
along with the other points Mr B and Mrs B had raised such as whether advice was given.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the full file afresh, including Mr B and Mrs Bs 
response to my provisional decision, for all the reasons given I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B and Mrs B £750 in total 
(less any amounts already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman