DRN-3020670
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader. He complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled his application 
for a Bounce Back Loan, which he says left him without access to the full amount of 
borrowing to which he was entitled.
What happened
Mr A banks with Lloyds and applied to it for a Bounce Back Loan on 4 May 2020. Under the 
rules of the government-backed Bounce Back Loan Scheme, applicants could borrow up to 
25% of their annual turnover. Mr A declared an annual turnover of £39,400 and requested a 
loan of £9,200. His application was approved and the loan was paid into his account on 
5 May.
Mr A subsequently approached Lloyds for additional borrowing under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme through a top-up loan. But his request was declined, as the bank said he wasnt 
eligible for any further funds.
When he complained, Lloyds advised Mr A that he would only be eligible to borrow a further 
£650 based on the turnover of £39,400 hed declared in his application. But it said that the 
minimum loan amount available through a top-up was £1,000, so it couldnt help him. 
After researching the matter further, Mr A believed that Lloyds had made errors in the criteria 
it had applied when handling his original Bounce Back Loan application. He said that his 
request had used his turnover for the past 12 months, when in fact a projection of his 
earnings over the year ahead ought to have been used. He also said that the bank had failed 
to provide him a loan agreement as part of the transaction, thereby mis-selling the loan to 
him.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint, other than to acknowledge that it had incorrectly 
transferred Mr A to the wrong department when he had called to discuss the matter and for 
which it paid him £50 compensation. The bank said that it had processed both Mr As initial 
application and his top-up request in line with the Loan Scheme rules and criteria. It also 
said that it hadnt sent a loan agreement to Mr A but instead had got his agreement to the 
terms and conditions when he clicked a box to accept them during the online application. 
Mr A didnt accept Lloyds response, so he referred the matter to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint, but didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. He said, in 
summary, that:
Under the Loan Scheme rules, only businesses established after 1 January 2019 
could use a projected turnover amount when applying for a Bounce Back Loan and 
this hadnt changed at any time. Mr As business was established prior to this date 
and his application had therefore correctly been based on his actual annual turnover. 
The rules also set out that the original loan amount plus any top-up must not exceed 
25% of the turnover figure declared by an applicant in their initial application, which 
couldnt be amended. Mr A had initially borrowed £650 short of the maximum loan he 
couldve obtained, but as the minimum top-up loan was £1,000 he was ineligible for 
any further borrowing under the Scheme.
Lloyds had obtained Mr As agreement to the terms and conditions of the loan during 
his application and provided him a facility letter. While Mr A had said hed not 
received this, he was satisfied it had been sent and so didnt think the bank had done 
anything wrong.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, applicants were entitled to borrow up to 
25% of their annual turnover (subject to the maximum loan amount of £50,000). Only 
businesses established after 1 January 2019 could use an estimated annual turnover 
amount. Otherwise, applicants were required to provide their turnover for the 2019 calendar 
year. These criteria didnt change at any point while the Scheme was running.
These requirements were clearly set out in the application form, as prescribed by the British 
Business Bank (the government-owned bank responsible for administering the Loan 
Scheme). Ive seen that Lloyds online application process followed this format. Mr A 
wouldve seen the following information when providing his turnover figure and the loan 
amount he was seeking:
Annual turnover or estimated annual turnover
You can apply for a loan which is up to 25% of your turnover in calendar 
year 2019, from a minimum of £2,000, up to a maximum of £50,000. If 
your business was established after 1 January 2019, you should apply 
the 25% limit to your estimated annual turnover from the date you 
started your business.
So Im satisfied that Lloyds requested the correct information from Mr A during his initial 
application. It was then up to him to ensure the information that he provided was accurate.
Mr A declared an annual turnover £39,400, so he was eligible for a maximum loan of £9,850. 
He asked to borrow £9,200 and so this is what Lloyds provided once the application was 
approved. 
Mr A says that after applicating the application, Lloyds shouldve provided him with a loan 
agreement for review and completion before the loan was paid out. Under the Scheme rules, 
lenders were obliged to make certain information available to an applicant before the binding 
them to the terms of any loan  but there was no prescribed method of doing this. It wasnt, 
therefore, a requirement to provide a loan agreement and obtain Mr As signature to such a 
document before providing the loan. 
Lloyds has shown that as part of its online application process, it provided a copy of the 
facility letter to the applicant which set out key information about the loan as per its 
requirements under the Scheme rules. I think this information was presented in a sufficiently 
clear way. Applicants were then required to confirm that they had read and agreed to these terms before they could submit their application. The bank then followed this up by sending a 
copy of the facility letter, which restated this key information, to the applicant.
Mr A wouldve had to follow the banks standard online process when completing his 
application, so he wouldve been provided with  and agreed to  the terms of the loan in the 
manner Ive described above. The bank has also shown that it emailed a facility letter to 
Mr A. In doing so, Im satisfied that Lloyds gave Mr A appropriate information about the loan 
before it was drawn down.
When Mr A later approached Lloyds for a top-up loan, the bank correctly advised him that 
the turnover amount hed provided within his application couldnt be amended and that he 
was ineligible for any further borrowing. Under the rules of the Scheme, the total loan 
amount (i.e. including any top-up) could amount to no more than 25% of the turnover figure 
provided by the applicant in the initial application  which couldnt be changed at any point. 
The minimum amount available as a top-up loan was £1,000 and so, given how much Mr A 
had already borrowed, he was ineligible for any further borrowing through the Scheme.
So taking all of the above into account, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in how it 
handled Mr As Bounce Back Loan and top-up applications.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman