DRN-3808664
The complaint
Mr C complains about a decision by American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
trading as American Express, not to uphold a claim he made to them under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators view.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong, and the payment was made with a credit card it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. The complaint Im looking at isnt the same as the 
claim about the goods supplied under the contract. Rather, its about whether - and how - 
AESEL has taken into account any relevant obligations that arise, including those under 
section 75.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the goods should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. And, when we think about whether goods have been of satisfactory 
quality we are asked to consider whether they have been durable.
If the fault occurs after six months, as is the case here, the relevant legislation puts the onus 
on the consumer to demonstrate the goods were faulty or developing a fault when 
purchased. 
I dont think AESEL were wrong to reject Mr Cs section 75 claim on the information they had 
at the time. Mr C had been in possession of the headset for over a year and whilst he had 
suggested the headphones had been repaired on several occasions hed only provided 
evidence of one dated repair that was completed after hed been in possession of the goods 
for about 14 months. I dont think that demonstrated the goods were faulty from the start, but 
I understand Mr C isnt claiming that; hes suggesting the headphones werent durable. 
Mr C has now explained that since AESELs section 75 decision the headphones have been 
replaced free of charge by the manufacturer as they failed again. I think that new information 
does suggest they were not durable but thats not information AESEL had available to them 
when they were reviewing Mr Cs claim. I dont think it would therefore be fair to suggest they 
made a mistake or need to compensate Mr C in any way. I think the information available 
when the claim was made was limited and didnt sufficiently demonstrate the headset wasnt 
durable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman