DRN-4316857
The complaint
Mr S complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has provided poor service 
when handling a claim he made for a faulty TV. 
What happened
Mr S has several policies with D&G that provided repair or replacement services for various 
items he owns.
In early 2023 he made two claims  one for a cooker that had stopped working and the 
second for a faulty TV. D&G agreed to settle both claims. 
The claim for the cooker is not part of this complaint, but for information that was eventually 
settled and Mr S received £192 compensation for the time he was without the cooker.
With regard to the TV, this is a summary of what happened. The TV was written off and Mr S 
chose a replacement. The replacement was delivered but without a stand. Mr S asked that it 
be taken away and paid £48 for the courier to do that. He contacted D&G who eventually 
agreed to refund the £48. Mr S kept contacting D&G saying that the £48 hadnt been 
returned, and it took some weeks to sort that out.
In the meantime Mr S was trying to choose a different replacement TV. He asked to be given 
details of ones where he would need to contribute towards the replacement cost and chose 
one where he was required to pay £300. D&G sent a link for the site where Mr S could order 
the TV but he didnt receive it. When he received it the next day his contribution had 
increased to £320, which D&G said was because it was a live link and that prices changed 
all the time. Mr S paid the £320 but complained that this wasnt fair. D&G agreed to refund 
the £20, and that was done.
The second replacement TV was faulty and was returned. Mr S complained again and also 
looked at other TVs he could have. He says he chose one which D&G said didnt require him 
to make a contribution. When he again contacted D&G he asked the agent to confirm it 
would honour the promise it had made. 
D&G said it couldnt find any recording that said that, and that the model of TV Mr S chose 
required a substantial contribution. Mr S insisted D&G honour its promise not to charge an 
additional fee but it wont do that. D&G says it refunded the outstanding £300 but Mr S says 
it hasnt been paid into his account.
Mr S made several complaints, and D&G agreed to pay compensation for the way it had 
handled his claim. It also paid £40 compensation for the delay in repaying the £48, and £20 
in regard to one particular call Mr S complained about, where he said the agent was rude 
and he was cut off. D&G says it is still willing to replace Mr Ss TV in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy but if theres an additional fee to pay he must pay it.
Mr S doesnt think thats fair. When he initially asked us to review his complaint he said he 
wanted his £320 back, a specific model of TV as a replacement with no upgrade cost, £50 
towards his phone call costs and £300 compensation. He later said he thought the 
compensation should be £800.
Our investigator didnt think D&G had handled this claim well. He said that both the £48 and 
the £320 had been refunded according to D&Gs records and that it was most likely that the 
£300 had been sent to a credit card account rather than Mr Ss bank account. Mr S hasnt 
provided any copies of his card account statements, so the investigator said he couldnt 
conclude the money hadnt been returned. He thought £300 compensation fairly reflected 
the inconvenience Mr S had suffered. He asked Mr S to provide details of his phone costs, 
but Mr S didnt want to do this. However, D&G made an offer towards these without 
evidence. It objected to paying more than £100 to include compensation and phone costs, 
saying it had already compensated Mr S previously.
Mr S subsequently said hed settle for a payment of £1000 to cover everything  including 
the cost of a replacement TV. D&G didnt respond when we passed that suggestion on.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to mention everything thats happened in this complaint, as the background is 
well known to both parties. If I dont comment on any particular point, it doesnt mean I 
havent considered it  instead Ive concentrated on the main issues.
Im going to uphold this complaint and ask D&G to pay the compensation our investigator 
recommended. Im not going to ask it to pay the increased compensation Mr S wants. Ill 
explain how Ive reached my conclusion.
Ive listened to many phone calls made by Mr S to D&G  about 30 in total. A few of those 
were about Mr Ss other claim  the one for the cooker  but the majority were about the TV. 
In many of those calls Mr S was passed from one department to another without 
successfully sorting his issues. In some the agent from D&G was confrontational and in 
several he was told hed have to arrange replacement items himself. In particular D&G 
agents were unhelpful when he was trying to get his £48 back  no-one was prepared to 
look further into D&Gs records to check that the money had been sent to the correct 
account as Mr S requested. 
I must say that Mr S was persistent and on one or two occasions clearly lost patience and 
used inappropriate language. Given the number of calls he made without seeming to make 
any progress this is understandable, but it wont have helped his relationship with D&G.
One of the points Mr S is focussed on is that an agent promised him he could have a 
particular TV without paying any upgrade fee, but when he next contacted D&G it was only 
available with a substantial fee. Ive listened carefully to the calls about this. There was a call 
where Mr S was told one TV was available with no extra fee  but its not the one hes 
mentioned in his complaint. The particular TV he mentions was always quoted as having an 
upgrade fee. Even if D&G had said  in a call I havent been able to listen to  that the TV 
was available with no fee it doesnt mean I would ask D&G to honour such an offer. The TV 
in question was discussed several times, always with an upgrade fee. 
I think its most likely that any offer to provide that particular model without a fee was a mistake. We normally say that if a business makes a mistake then it should put a customer 
in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened. In this case, that would 
mean Mr S would have known there was a substantial fee to pay all along. The effect of the 
mistake was to lead Mr S to believe he could have had the TV for less for several days. I do 
understand hes disappointed by this but Im not going to ask D&G to provide a more 
expensive TV simply because an agent might have made a mistake which was rectified a 
short time later.
Mr S says he hasnt received the £320 back he paid towards a new TV. D&G says it 
refunded this to Mr Ss credit card, not his bank account. As far as Im aware, Mr S hasnt 
provided any evidence to say hes not had this refund  so I cant ask D&G to do more about 
that. I appreciate Mr S was expecting the refund to a bank account, but I cant see that D&G 
could have made a payment to a card account unless Mr S provided this information. Id ask 
Mr S to provide the detail D&G has requested if he wants it looked at again. 
Putting things right
D&G doesnt dispute the fact that it should put things right for Mr S. But it says its already 
paid him compensation on several occasions and this is sufficient. I can see D&G paid him 
£40 on 4 April (part of an £88 payment) and £20 on 12 April. It also paid him £100 in late 
April (part of a £292 payment). Ive taken these numbers from statements and final response 
letters, as in later correspondence D&G seems to be unclear about what its already paid Mr 
S as compensation on this claim and its associated complaints.
In total it seems D&G has paid Mr S £160 compensation on the TV claim. I think it is fair for 
D&G to increase that to £300  so it should now pay an extra £140. And despite what D&G 
later said to us, it did offer, in an email to this service, £100 towards Mr Ss phone costs 
without sight of evidence. I think thats reasonable given the number of calls hes made. And 
I also think D&G should add interest at 8% per annum to this to reflect the time Mr S has 
been out of pocket. I think 5 May (the date of the final response letter acknowledging 
mistakes) is an appropriate start date for this, and the interest must be paid to the date the 
£100 is paid. D&G may be required to deduct tax from the interest payment by HMRC. If it 
does, it should provide Mr S with a certificate confirming the tax deducted. For clarity, the 
£140 extra compensation will not attract interest as Mr S hasnt been out of pocket for this 
amount.
I understand Mr S has not yet received a replacement TV. D&G should deal with this as 
soon as possible. If Mr S chooses a cash settlement then D&G need only send him the 
amount it would pay to replace the TV with one of a similar specification. That might be less 
than Mr S will pay as a consumer. 
If D&G wants to settle the claim at the £1,000 Mr S has suggested it could do that, but I cant 
instruct it to do that here. If it does choose to do that, the £1,000 would include the TV, call 
costs and interest and the additional compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to 
pay Mr S the compensation outlined above, with interest where appropriate, and settle the 
remainder of the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 Susan Peters
Ombudsman