DRN-1585135
The complaint
Mrs H complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, contacted her about 
payment of an outstanding mortgage balance.
The property owned by Mrs H and her ex-partner had been sold in possession. Mrs H 
believes Halifax shouldnt be pursuing her for the money, because it was ten years ago.
What happened
In August 2009, Halifax took possession of the mortgaged property owned by Mrs H and her 
ex-partner. The proceeds of the sale didnt pay off the balance they owed Halifax, and there 
was an outstanding balance of just over £14,000.
In July 2019, Mrs H complained to Halifax. Shed been contacted by a debt collection 
agency, who said she was jointly liable for the debt. Mrs H told Halifax that shed never been 
told there was a mortgage shortfall. She explained shed wanted to sell the property, but her 
ex-partner had refused. She said shed paid her share of the mortgage, and she told Halifax 
it should be contacting her ex-partner instead. She said this was causing her stress and 
could affect her health.
Halifax didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It explained that it had no obligation to tell her about 
the mortgage shortfall, as it had passed the debt to debt recovery agents. It gave Mrs H the 
names of four agents it had engaged: one in 2009, one in 2012, another in 2013, and the 
agent which had contacted Mrs H from 2018 onwards.
Halifax said that the rules allowed it 6 years to try to contact borrowers where there was a 
debt, and it could show it had tried to contact Mrs H within that time. Halifax said Mrs H 
hadnt provided contact details, and it was reasonable to expect borrowers to take some 
personal responsibility in understanding the outcome and position of the mortgage account 
after possession. As Mrs H and her ex-partner were jointly and severally liable for the 
mortgage, they would both be contacted for the money. It wasnt possible to write off the 
debt, as the mortgage contract Mrs H had signed required full payment.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said her ex-partner had walked 
out on her, and hed refused to agree to sell the property. Mrs H enclosed a copy of a 2008 
letter from her solicitor to her ex-partners solicitor. This said that the ex-partner had refused 
to sign the agreement to sell. It also said that Mrs H had no objection to her ex-partner 
moving in and paying for the mortgage. 
Mrs H told this service that looking her up on the electoral roll and register of births, 
marriages and deaths, could have identified her within the six years. She said that as her ex-
partner hadnt agreed to sell the property, the debt had been incurred through no fault of 
hers. Mrs H said that if the debt wasnt written off, it should be transferred in full to her ex-
partner.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. She said that banks had to try to contact 
borrowers within six years after the sale. Halifax had instructed the first debt collection 
agency in 2009. Although neither of the first two debt collection agencies were now 
contactable, the third, appointed in 2013, had provided evidence that it had tried to contact 
Mrs H four times, but couldnt find an address for her. So she said Halifax wasnt too late in 
trying to contact Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt agree. She asked for call recordings of outgoing calls to her from 2009, and 
said if these werent available, she shouldnt be penalised. And she couldnt believe that 
Halifax or the agents had tried to contact her, because she said her details were on the 
electoral roll, and births/marriages and deaths. Mrs H also said that she had a current 
account with Halifax. And she also said she shouldnt be penalised for her ex-partner not 
being contactable.
The investigator explained that there are no rules to say a bank has to record calls, and if 
they do, theres no set time for which they must be kept  though there is a rule to say they 
mustnt be retained for more than six years.  She also said that shed seen evidence that 
letters were sent to Mrs H within the six years, and Halifax had said it didnt send any 
personal information by email.  In relation to Mrs Hs Halifax account, the investigator said 
Mrs H had been added to someone elses account, with a different name and different 
address from that on the mortgage.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability for the outstanding debt
When a property is sold in possession, any outstanding debt isnt written off. Under the 
mortgage terms and conditions, its still payable by the borrowers. So when Mrs H (who was 
then known by another name) and her then partner took out the mortgage in 2005, they were 
both jointly and severally liable for the money.
I recognise that Mrs H says that she felt shed paid her share, and that it was her ex-partner 
who wouldnt agree to selling the property before Halifax took it into possession. She also 
believes that the letter her solicitor sent to her ex-partners solicitor, which said that Mrs H 
would have no objection to her ex-partner moving in and paying for the mortgage, means the 
debt should be transferred to his sole name.
But that letter doesnt show that Mrs H and her ex-partner jointly agreed to ask Halifax for 
the mortgage to be transferred to her ex-partners name, or that Halifax agreed to any such 
legal change to the mortgage deed. So nothing had legally changed on the deed which Mrs 
H had signed. This means that Mrs H was still jointly and severally responsible for the 
outstanding debt.
Whether Halifax was too late to recover the debt from Mrs H
The rules say that the lender must start recovery action within six years. Thats not the same 
as saying the debt will be written off if the lender cant trace the borrower, or if the borrower 
hasnt paid in full within that six years. So what I have to consider is whether or not Halifax 
started to try to recover the debt from Mrs H within six years of the date of sale. That sale 
took place in August 2009.In its final response letter, Halifax told Mrs H the names of the four debt recovery agent firms 
it had used, starting in 2009. The first two are no longer contactable, but Ive seen evidence 
to show that the third debt recovery agency received the file in November 2013 and then 
tried four times to contact Mrs H, but couldnt do so. So I find that Halifax did attempt to 
contact Mrs H about the debt within six years of the date of sale.
Mrs H has said that she was on the electoral roll, on the register of births, marriages and 
deaths, and that she did tell Halifax that shed moved. But Mrs H had a different name when 
she was a party to the Halifax mortgage. Debt collection agencies arent obliged to check 
particular registers, and its hard to see how they could have succeeded in tracing Ms H 
when she wasnt known by that name on the mortgage. The same applies to Mrs H saying 
that she had a Halifax account. She had been added to this account, in her new name of Mrs 
H, and with a different address. So I dont think its surprising that Halifaxs debt collection 
agencies couldnt find her.
Theres a conflict of evidence about whether or not Mrs H gave Halifax her new contact 
details. Mrs H said she did; Halifax said she didnt. Where evidence conflicts, I base my 
decision on what I think it more likely to have happened. Here, I think its more likely that 
Halifax didnt receive new contact details from Mrs H. Thats because its clear that Halifax 
had appointed debt collection agents, and I consider those agents would certainly have used 
any new contact details theyd been given.
But in any case, what matters is not whether or not Halifax had been able to trace Mrs H, in 
her new name and new address. What matters is that it had started the debt recovery 
process within six years of the sale in possession in August 2009. I find that it did. This 
means that Mrs H is still jointly and severally responsible for the shortfall on the mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman