DRN-2214934
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) failed to defend a claim 
against him on his motor insurance policy.
The investigator issued his view against CIS General Insurance Ltd. This business is now 
known as Soteria, and so Ill refer to them by this name throughout my decision. 
Background
On 7 November 2019, Soteria, Mr S insurer, received notification from a third partys 
insurers of an incident which took place on 15 October 2019. The insurer claimed Mr S 
collided with a parked car and had then driven off. 
Soteria said theyd tried contacting Mr S by phone and letter between November 2019 and 
March 2020, but they didnt get a response. During this time, they asked the third partys 
insurer for evidence of a collision. They were given photos of Mr S car appearing to 
manoeuvre around the third partys car. 
With the evidence they had, and in the absence of a response from Mr S, Soteria felt they 
had to concede liability. 
Mr S says he was unaware of the incident or claim until, at renewal, he noticed his premium 
had gone up by £100. He called Soteria to query the increase and was told about the claim. 
He complained but Soteria didnt think theyd done anything wrong. In their final response, 
they talked about the images theyd been given by the third partys insurer. They noted the 
pictures showed Mr S car to be extremely close to the rear bumper of the third party 
vehicle. They concluded that on the evidence provided, and with no independent evidence 
to challenge it, theyd had to concede liability. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint but didnt think Soteria had done 
anything wrong. He said hed thought about how Soteria acted based on the evidence they 
had. And that, as they hadnt been able to reach Mr S, their decision to accept liability hadnt 
been unfair. 
Mr S wasnt happy with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. So the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our investigator issued their view on Mr S complaint he asked them to comment on 
whether or not they believed the evidence provided by the third party proved categorically 
that he was liable. I would like to clarify that it is not for this service to make findings around 
liability. Rather this decision will only consider whether or not Soteria acted reasonably, 
based on the information available to them, and in line with the terms and conditions set out 
in Mr S motor insurance policy. 
As Id expect from an insurer, when Soteria were told about the claim they attempted to 
contact Mr S to find out what had happened. Mr S doesnt recall hearing from Soteria, but 
Ive seen correctly addressed letters from 7 November 2019 and 15 February 2020 which 
ask him to get in touch  so Im satisfied Soteria tried to reach him. 
The terms of the policy say:
The insurer is entitled under this policy to;
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your 
name
Soteria were allowed to take over the settlement of the claim. And in the absence of a 
response from Mr S, I think it was reasonable for them to do so. However, Ive also thought 
about the evidence Soteria based their decision to concede liability on, and whether this was 
fair.
As mentioned, the images of the alleged collision show Mr S car very close to the rear of the 
third partys parked vehicle. Mr S appears to have driven around the offside of the other car. 
The engineers report shows the damage to the third partys car was to the offside rear and 
indicates the direction of travel for the damage was from the rear to the front. This is 
consistent with Mr S positioning in the photos. Its also worth noting that the paint marks left 
on the third partys car are a visual match to the colour of Mr S vehicle. 
While I can understand Mr S unhappiness at the claim not being defended, with little to 
counter the evidence Ive mentioned above, I think Soteria have acted in the only way they 
could have. 
So for the reasons Ive set out, Im unable to find that Soteria made an error in how they 
managed Mr S claim, or that they behaved unreasonably in how they recorded the incident. 
As a result, Im unable to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr S claim against Soteria Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman