DRN-2982485
The complaint
Ms V complains that Leeds Building Society (LBS) has declined her request to switch her 
mortgage from a repayment to interest only basis.  
What happened
Ms V has a mortgage with LBS. This was taken out around February 2013. The mortgage 
was taken over a term of 25 years on a repayment basis.
In early 2020 Ms V asked Leeds to change her account onto an interest only basis. She said 
that she planned to sell her property in the next two years and downsize, while also moving 
to a different part of the country, where property prices were cheaper. And she was confident 
the equity shed have remaining after redeeming the mortgage would allow her to do this.
LBS declined the request to amend the mortgage. So, Ms V raised a complaint with our 
service. She said this was actually the second time shed asked LBS to make this change 
within the last couple of years. She explained that shed been experiencing financial 
difficulties for several years, brought about in part by the breakdown of a relationship. And 
she explained shed run up unsecured debt in that time to cover priority bills, including the 
mortgage, and providing for her children. She said LBS refusal of her request was pushing 
her further into financial difficulties. But despite making LBS aware of this it still declined her 
request - which she didnt feel was fair.
LBS said in response to the complaint that Ms V didnt meet its criteria for a switch to interest 
only, as her repayment vehicle  the sale of her property  fell outside its lending criteria 
based on the level of equity in the property. And it said it didnt offer temporary switches to 
interest only.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2021 explaining that I was inclined to uphold 
Ms Vs complaint in part. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
Ms V has said that what she wanted and asked LBS for was to change her mortgage 
permanently to an interest only basis. LBS says it would not agree to this due to her 
repayment strategy  which was the sale of her property. It has said that it wasnt the case 
that the sale of a property is an unacceptable repayment strategy. But its lending criteria are 
that it will only accept this when there is a certain amount of equity in the property. And it 
didnt think Ms V had enough equity here. So, it declined her request.
Was Ms Vs request considered fairly by LBS?
Firstly, Ms V disputes the valuation figure that LBS has used. She says this is a lot lower 
than the actual value of her property, particularly when looking at the prices achieved when 
similar, almost identical, properties on her road were sold within the last several years. Given 
that the valuation of the property was essentially what was preventing LBS from accepting 
Ms Vs request  as this directly impacted the level of potential equity  Id have expected 
LBS to consider carrying out a formal valuation. I appreciate there mayve been a cost 
involved to Ms V  if either LBS carried one out or it suggested that she do so. But LBS 
doesnt seem to have even considered obtaining an independent valuation. Nor did it 
suggest that Ms V could obtain a valuation if she wished to appeal the decision. Instead it 
just rejected the request. Im not sure that was necessarily fair in the circumstances.
Im also not sure that LBS decision to decline the request on the basis of the repayment 
vehicle took into account the relevant regulations.
There are regulations that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 
2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about 
requirements for stricter lending assessments  in particular around affordability and 
repayment strategies for interest only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and 
encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly.
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules, in the Mortgage and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB), to address this.
LBS has indicated that it has effectively declined the application on the grounds that the 
repayment strategy was not acceptable.
MCOB 11.7.1, part of the transitional arrangements following MMR, explains that, a lender 
need not carry out an affordability assessment, if:
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing  except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance;
theres been no further borrowing since 26 April 2014; and
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests.
And MCOB 11.7.3 goes on to explain that a lender can also forego an assessment of a 
repayment strategy, that would otherwise be required under the new regulations, if the same 
criteria are met. And this is regardless of whether the variation being requested would be 
considered material to the affordability of the mortgage.
The rules do not say that a lender must waive these assessments. But Im of the view that, if 
the scenario allows them to be waived, it wouldnt be fair for LBS to decline outright an 
application on the basis of affordability or the repayment vehicle not meeting its criteria, if 
allowing the application would be in the customers best interests.Ms Vs mortgage was taken out in 2013. And Ive seen nothing that suggests she was 
looking to borrow additional funds or that she had borrowed additional money since April 
2014. As a result, Ms Vs request to change her mortgage to an interest only basis would 
appear to be one where LBS couldve set aside an assessment of affordability and the 
relevant repayment vehicle. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that LBS thought about this 
when making its decision. So, Im not sure it has considered her request fairly.
Were Ms Vs circumstances considered correctly?
One of the reasons that Ms V has said she wanted to convert her mortgage to an interest 
only basis was that she has been experiencing financial difficulties and the change wouldve 
alleviated some of the pressure on her finances. She says she has prioritised paying her 
mortgage, but this has resulted in her incurring additional debt. And this was noted by LBS 
when the request was initially received and considered by an underwriter.
MCOB 11.6.43 explains that, the new rules introduced around assessment of repayment 
strategies under MMR do not prevent a lender from making a temporary arrangement, where 
they accept interest only payments, if the reason is the borrower is in arrears or has a 
payment shortfall or is in danger of experiencing arrears or a shortfall. So essentially, where 
a change would be for the purposes of forbearance, this can be allowed.
Ms Vs request would also appear to be one where this rule is relevant. She was clear she 
was struggling with repayments, and in danger of falling into arrears. But again, I havent 
seen anything that suggests LBS considered this. And because of this, I again dont think 
that her request has been considered correctly.
I think the rules put in place by the regulator provided scope for Ms Vs request to be 
considered differently. But I cant see that LBS took any of these into account and instead it 
seems to have stuck rigidly to its lending criteria.
What shouldve happened?
As there hasnt been an official valuation of the property, I cant say for certain that the 
application wouldve met LBS criteria had this been done. Ive taken on board the 
information Ms V has provided from various websites. And this does appear to support her 
position that the valuation being used by LBS was potentially incorrect. But without a 
valuation having taken place, I cant say for certain that the application shouldve been 
approved. I do think though LBS shouldve done more and offered the option of a physical 
valuation.
And in any event, I think it should also have done more in terms of considering whether its 
lending criteria should be applied in the way it has. This is bearing in mind that the 
transitional arrangements allowed these to be set aside if the change was in Ms Vs best 
interests and what MCOB says about allowing temporary changes to the repayment type of 
a mortgage for forbearance.
As Ive said, Ms V has explained that she was looking to make the change to interest-only to 
reduce her monthly payments, to help address the financial difficulties she was experiencing. 
She has also been very clear and consistent in setting out her intentions for repaying the 
mortgage. She has said she intends to market her property in late 2022 and aims to sell as 
soon as she could and repay the mortgage in full, using the equity to buy a property outright 
in a more affordable area. And she has provided evidence of properties for sale in the area 
she is intending to move to that would be well within her expected budget. So, on the face of 
it, her plan seems feasible. And it could be argued the permanent change to the repayment 
type is in her best interests.But there are a number of risks involved as well. In the event Ms Vs plans changed, and she 
wanted to remain in her current property, she would have no plan for repaying the mortgage 
at the end of the term  albeit she would still have time to address this as the term wouldnt 
expire until 2038. I know Ms V has said that she has no intention of staying in her current 
property and fully intends to sell it, repay the mortgage and move, but circumstances can 
change. There is also the possibility that she wont be able to achieve a sale. And if there are 
any significant fluctuations in the housing market, she may not be able to go through with her 
plans. I appreciate that Ms V considers the chances of any of these things happening to be 
low. But they are still a possibility. And the risk of being left with an interest only mortgage, 
without a way of repaying it, while already experiencing financial difficulties does call into 
question whether a permanent change is in her best interests, even if it might be what she 
wants to happen.
So, with all of that in mind, Im not sure, had LBS properly thought about her request, that a 
permanent switch to interest only wouldve been agreed. But I think a temporary switch, for 
the reasons of forbearance, should have been.
LBS initially told our service that it does not offer temporary switches to interest only where 
someone is facing difficulties. This was somewhat concerning given that under MCOB, the 
rules set by the FCA around the provision of mortgages, it specifically says under rule 
13.3.4A that lenders must consider a change to the mortgage type if it is appropriate to do so 
where a customer is facing repayment difficulties.
LBS went on to clarify that it would, in certain circumstances offer a temporary switch to 
interest only  but generally only for six months. But again, this seems to be an example of 
LBS sticking rigidly to a policy. Where a borrower has said they are in financial difficulties, as 
Ms V did here, Id expect LBS to think about what assistance it could offer, tailored to Ms Vs 
individual circumstances. And if this meant deviating from its usual approach, Id expect LBS 
to consider doing so.
Here, as Ive said, Ms V was very clear that she was in difficulties and needed the relief of 
reducing her mortgage repayments, by switching to interest only. And she has been clear 
that she had a firm plan to address this, through the sale of her property, which she hoped to 
conclude by the end of 2022.
If LBS had considered Ms Vs individual circumstances and all of the regulations Ive 
mentioned, I think it wouldve been reasonable for it to agree a switch to an interest only 
basis until the end of 2022 to begin with and then undertake another review at that time. This 
wouldve achieved Ms Vs aims and helped with her financial difficulties. It wouldve given 
her time to attempt to carry out her plan for repaying the mortgage while keeping payments 
low. But it would also have mitigated the risks of a permanent switch to interest only  by 
providing the option to convert back if her plans hadnt come to fruition or her circumstances 
changed, while also leaving a term of over fifteen years on the mortgage itself to address 
repayment.
LBS has said after it declined Ms Vs request for her mortgage to switch permanently to 
interest only, Ms V did not want to discuss any alternatives  such as temporary 
concessions. It has said she wanted to escalate her complaint about its initial decision and 
that is why no alternatives, were discussed. It has also provided a recording of the call in 
which her complaint was registered to support this.
Having listened to the call, I do acknowledge that Ms V didnt want to discuss any 
alternatives. But she stated during the call that shed already been told that a term extension 
was not an option. So, she didnt see what other options could be available to help her while 
she was in financial difficulties, and reduce her monthly repayments, if LBS was not willing to agree to amend the mortgage to an interest only basis. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
LBS made her aware that a temporary change couldve been a possibility. This wasnt talked 
about in the call Ive heard. And as Ive said, LBS maintained this wasnt actually an option 
until our investigator had issued their opinion. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Ms V 
thought further discussion wasnt going to be helpful.
And even if Ms V had declined a further discussion, there was nothing preventing LBS from 
proactively suggesting that a variation of the mortgage, for a shorter term, mightve been an 
option. It couldve explained the potential alternative options in writing, when it addressed 
her complaint. But it didnt do that in its final response. It simply said it was right to have 
declined her request. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it necessarily was.
Putting things right
As Ive said, I think the most appropriate course of action wouldve been, at the time Ms V 
made her request in April 2020, for a temporary switch to interest only to be agreed as a 
compromise until the end of 2022, with a further review taking place at that point to see if 
Ms Vs plans were on track. I appreciate this may not have been in line with what Ms V was 
originally asking for. And that LBS has said it wouldnt generally agree to this. But I think it is 
a reasonable compromise, mitigating risks. And for the purposes of good customer service 
and treating customers fairly, particularly where they are experiencing financial difficulties, I 
think it wouldve been appropriate for LBS to agree this, even if it was outside of its usual 
policy.
Ms V has confirmed to our service that her plans are still to move and that she intends to 
market her property in the second half of 2022, as she always intended. She has also 
confirmed that the reduction in monthly repayments that the switch to interest only would 
provide are also still necessary to help with her financial situation. With this in mind, I think 
LBS should now convert the mortgage to an interest only basis, initially until 31 December 
2022, with a further review then taking place.
Ive thought about whether this should be backdated, and the account re-worked. But Im not 
sure this would be appropriate. Ive taken on board what Ms V has said about the difficulties 
she has had. But Im also conscious that, while it mayve been difficult, she has managed to 
maintain the mortgage payments  the mortgage being a priority debt. And she has 
benefitted in the amount outstanding on the mortgage being reduced. To re-work the 
account would undo this, and worsen the position on a priority debt. And Im not sure that 
would be in Ms Vs best interests. So, Im not currently intending to recommend the 
amendment to the mortgage repayment type be backdated.
The investigator felt that LBS should also pay £300 for failing to assist her while she was in 
financial difficulties. Ms V has said that she thinks this award should be significantly higher 
given how unhelpful LBS has been and the impact its decision had on her other finances.
Our awards are not intended to be punitive. I dont doubt it has been very upsetting for Ms V 
that LBS declined her request. But Im conscious it did offer her the opportunity to talk about 
alternative options. As Ive said, I can understand why she didnt pursue this. But at the 
same time, it was an option available to her. And I also have to take into account that, while 
maintaining mortgage repayments on a capital and interest basis mayve been hard for her 
given her financial difficulties there were other circumstances that led to these difficulties, 
outside of LBS control, which would also have contributed to the ongoing stress of the 
situation. And while maintaining capital and interest mortgage payments may well have put 
her finances under further strain, I cant say for certain, based on what Ive seen so far, that 
the additional costs she has mentioned wouldnt otherwise have been incurred as a result of 
her financial difficulties.With all of that in mind, Im currently inclined to agree with our investigator, and recommend 
LBS pay Ms V £300 for the upset caused by its failure to fully consider her request.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
LBS said it accepted my provisional decision.
Ms V said she too was happy with my provisional decision and asked that we make a 
binding final decision, along the same lines, as it would be a great help to her financial 
position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about the issues again, and as both parties have indicated they accept my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to reach any different conclusions here.
So, for the same reasons given in those findings, and summarised above, I think, although 
its decision not to permanently switch the mortgage to an interest only basis was 
reasonable, LBS didnt consider it fully and correctly. And LBS couldve done a lot more to 
assist Ms V. So, as a result, it should take steps now to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Ms Vs complaint in part. 
To put things right I order Leeds Building Society to; 
Convert Ms Vs mortgage onto an interest only basis from the date of this final 
decision until 31 December 2022
Undertake a review of Ms Vs circumstances shortly prior to December 2022 with a 
view to potentially extending this concession, if the mortgage has not already been 
redeemed by that point.
Pay Ms V £300 for the upset caused by it failing to fairly consider her request and 
propose alternative solutions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman