DRN-3237654
The complaint
Mr H complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly refused his insurance claim for the theft of a 
motor vehicle. 
What happened
In February 2020 a car auction firm (Ill refer to it as A) contacted Mr H. He had advertised a 
car for sale on a website. A offered to sell it, with what Mr H describes as a substantial fee 
and commission discount, at its auction ten or so days later. Mr H left the car and the keys 
with A. 
In late February 2020 the car was sold at the auction for £6,000. A told Mr H he would 
receive the funds within five weeks. Mr H says in that period A didnt pay him or respond to 
his attempts at contact. In mid-March 2020 an insolvency administrator issued a letter of 
engagement for A. In mid-April 2020 the administrator was formally appointed. A went into 
administration, Mr H still hasnt received the proceeds of the sale. 
In June 2020 Mr H claimed for the loss of his car against his Aviva motor insurance policy. 
He feels the car was stolen, as As actions constitute theft. In July 2020 Aviva declined the 
claim. It didnt accept there had been a theft. It said Mr H had handed the car with its keys 
and documentation to A. It said A had breached its contract with Mr H. Therefore instead of 
theft it was a civil matter between Mr H and A.
In October 2020 Aviva responded to a complaint from Mr H. It didnt accept A had intended 
to steal the vehicle from the outset. It said he was the victim of a firm going bankrupt without 
paying him as a creditor. So Aviva continued to decline his claim. Aviva apologised for some 
poor communication with Mr H. It offered £50 compensation. 
 
Mr H wasnt satisfied by the response so came to this service. Our investigator felt Avivas 
decision not to consider the loss as a theft was fair and reasonable. So she didnt 
recommend it pay the claim or do anything differently. Mr H didnt accept that, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to decide if there was a theft of Mr Hs car or not. Thats something more 
appropriate for a court. But I can decide whether it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
treat the claim as theft under the terms of the policy. For me the key consideration is to ask if 
A, at the point it took on his car to sell it, didnt intend to pay Mr H for it. If it didnt then I 
might feel Aviva should consider the claim as though a theft had occurred.
Mr Hs policy says if his vehicle is stolen Aviva will pay a cash amount equal to the loss. It 
doesnt give a definition of stolen, but it does for theft - Theft, attempted theft or taking 
your vehicle without consent.
Mr Hs referred to a legal definition on theft  in summary he says someone is guilty of theft if 
they dishonestly appropriate property with the intention of permanently depriving the owner 
of it. He feels A acted dishonestly to obtain his consent to take the car. He says its actions 
during the auction indicate it intended to retain control of the vehicle. He highlights that A 
was in a dire financial position when it took on his car. Importantly he feels it had no 
intention, from the outset, of paying him anything for it. 
In response to this Aviva says the claim doesnt meet the requirements of theft as the car 
wasnt stolen. It says the intent of A cant be proven. Aviva says A fulfilled its obligations by 
listing the vehicle for sale. It adds as A went into administration Mr H is a creditor to A  
rather than a victim of theft.  
Mr H says As engagement of the administrator was deliberately timed to coincide with the 
end of a five-week post auction period. He says it was required to pass proceeds of the 
sales on to the sellers by the end of period. Mr H feels this proves As intention was always 
to collect and retain auction proceeds and then proceed to insolvency.  
Mr Hs provided a link to an article providing some history of A, and reports of its treatment of 
some customers. The article makes negative claims about the firm. These include it having 
been in a poor financial position in the years before administration, being involved in legal 
disputes with customers and others finding it difficult to obtain payment for cars it had sold 
for them. The article doesnt paint A in a very good light.
Having considered everything, I accept its possible A didnt intend to pay Mr H. But there just 
isnt enough to persuade me that, on balance, thats the most likely position. 
It seems A may have had a history of poor practice and was in a bad financial situation when 
it took on Mr Hs car. But that doesnt necessarily mean it never intended to pay him or was 
acting in bad faith in some way. 
A report by the administrator explains in the spring of 2020 As director sought advice 
regarding ongoing legal disputes and liabilities. They were recommended to seek further 
advice from an insolvency practitioner. From there the administrator was engaged in mid-
March 2020 and appointed in mid-April 2020. 
I accept the time between mid-February and spring isnt all that long. But if the timeline is 
accepted it doesnt seem to support Mr Hs argument that, at the point of taking on his car in 
mid-February 2020, As intention was to retain the payment for his car by entering 
administration. I accept As directors will have been aware of its financial position, but thats 
not enough to persuade me it probably was acting in bad faith, with no intention of paying 
Mr B.
It does seem many of As customers had difficult experiences. But unfortunately for Mr H 
there just isnt enough to persuade me that A, from the outset, most likely didnt intend to pay 
him any funds from the sale. The administrators report doesnt provide anything to persuade 
me of that. Im not aware of anything else, like as a directors disqualification report, that 
provides insight into the intentions of A or its directors when it took on Mr Hs car. In addition 
the police dont seem to have considered there to be a possible theft or made any significant 
investigations along these lines. 
I realise Mr H will be disappointed by this, but for the reasons given above, I cant say 
Avivas acted unfairly by not considering the loss as a theft under the terms of the policy. So 
Im not going to require it to reconsider his claim or do anything differently. My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman