DRN-3541316
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly declined her 
request to take over a joint mortgage into her sole name. As a result, Miss S took out a 
mortgage with a new lender, incurring an early repayment charge (ERC) of about £7,400. To 
settle the complaint, Miss S wants Halifax to reimburse the ERC.
What happened
In 2017 Miss S and her husband at the time, Mr S, took out a mortgage with Tesco Bank. 
They borrowed £287,995 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 14 years. The 
mortgage was on a fixed rate of 1.58% until 30 September 2022. If the mortgage was repaid 
during that time, an ERC was payable. The mortgage was later taken over by Halifax.
In 2019 Miss S and Mr S separated. She remained in the property. In November 2019 
Miss S spoke to Tesco Bank about removing Mr S from the mortgage. At that point the 
balance was about £255,000. Tesco explained that, in order to take over the mortgage in her 
sole name, Miss S would need to reduce the balance by £40,000, as the maximum it would 
lend on her sole income was £215,000. There was no mortgage application made at that 
time, nor any mortgage offer issued by Tesco Bank.
Miss S has explained that over the next few months she paid of £4,900, but her salary had 
increased. As a result, Miss S thought that she wouldnt need to pay off as much in order to 
borrow the amount she wanted. However, when she went back to Tesco Bank in June 2020, 
Miss S was told that Tesco Bank had withdrawn from the mortgage lending market and that 
Halifax had taken over the mortgage.
As the application involved a change of parties on the mortgage, Miss S had to make a new 
application to Halifax. The banks records show that Miss S requested a loan of £250,350. 
After an initial affordability check based on the information Miss S provided, Halifax said that 
it would only offer Miss S a mortgage of £183,000. Miss S complained to Halifax.
While she was waiting for her complaint to be considered, Mss S went ahead with 
implementing the terms of the agreement shed reached with Mr S. Rather than asking 
Halifax to consider a full mortgage application, Miss S applied through a broker for a 
mortgage with a new lender. She was able to borrow £257,000 from her new lender, but had 
to pay an ERC to Halifax of £7,400.
Miss S thought Halifax had treated her unfairly, and asked it to refund the ERC. Halifax didnt 
uphold the complaint, so Miss S contacted our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened. He thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Miss S had 
demonstrated affordability of the new mortgage on her sole income. The investigator asked 
Halifax to reimburse the ERC, with interest at 8% per annum simple. Miss S agreed with the 
investigators findings.
Halifax disagreed with the investigators findings. The bank asked for evidence of the 
information Miss Ss new lender had considered when that lender had granted her 
application. The information was provided to Halifax and it was noted by the bank that the 
income and overtime Miss Ss mortgage broker had provided to the new lender was 
significantly different from the information that had been given to Halifax. 
Halifax said that, even if it had been given that information, the application still wouldnt have 
passed on affordability. However, Halifax said that there would have been room for 
discussion with underwriters about whether or not the application could have proceeded. 
Halifax maintained that, on the basis of the information it had been given when Miss S 
approached it, the mortgage would have been unaffordable. 
The investigator thought about this, but thought the complaint should be upheld. He still 
thought Miss S had demonstrated that the mortgage was affordable when she first 
approached Halifax.
Halifax disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Provisional decision of 7 June 2022
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
The ERC wasnt a penalty as claimed by Miss S. A penalty has a distinct meaning 
in law; its a contractual term that applies where there is a breach of contract. But 
when Miss Ss mortgage was repaid, there was no breach of contract. Thats 
because the contract allowed for the mortgage to be repaid if Miss S paid an ERC.
Mortgage rules say that a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability 
assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is 
no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no changes to the 
mortgage that affect affordability. 
Miss S didnt want to borrow any more money, but she did want to make a change to 
the mortgage by removing an existing borrower, Mr S. Im satisfied that, in the 
circumstances of this case, it was reasonable for Halifax to carry out an affordability 
assessment where there was a request to remove one of the joint borrowers from the 
mortgage. 
Halifax is entitled to decide the criteria under which it is willing to lend. It isnt obliged 
to lend  particularly where an application does not meet these lending criteria. 
Halifaxs lending criteria arent something I can interfere with or require Halifax to 
change. Id also note that all lenders set their own individual lending criteria. So just 
because another lender was willing to provide the mortgage Miss S wanted, this 
doesnt mean Halifax was wrong not to lend or has not applied its lending criteria 
correctly.
I am told that Tesco Bank told Miss S it would have lent her £215,000 if shed paid 
£40,000 off the mortgage and cleared some unsecured debts. Miss S only paid off 
just over 10% of the amount she needed to repay, but says she thought this wouldnt 
have been an issue with Tesco Bank (notwithstanding that the bank had told her she 
needed to do this), because her income had increased.  However, Tesco Bank never 
got to assess whether or not it would have allowed Miss S to borrow £215,000 when 
she had failed to comply with the conditions it had previously explained needed to be 
met, because Tesco Bank withdrew from the mortgage lending market. But Miss S approached Halifax confident that, although shed not paid off the £40,000 Tesco 
Bank said she needed to, this wouldnt be a problem. 
Ive reviewed the information given to Halifax by Miss S. Halifax does not include 
buy-to-let rental income in its affordability assessment. As I said above, Halifax is 
entitled to decide what income it will, or wont include.
In June 2020, Miss Ss application didnt meet affordability criteria.  Miss S told 
Halifax her income was £30,364 and her overtime was £2,269. However, the 
application form from Miss Ss broker (dated 4 June 2020) gives her income as 
£31,859 and overtime as £6,804  a significant difference (particularly in relation to 
overtime) from what Halifax had been told. It is surprising that there was such a 
variation in the income provided by Miss S direct to Halifax compared with what her 
broker provided to the new lender at about the same time. 
Halifax, of course, wasnt aware of this different income information until it was 
provided to the bank during the course of this investigation. However, Halifax says 
that, even with this increased income, the application would still have been outside its 
affordability criteria, albeit with a lower loan-to-income ratio, which might have 
allowed for some wiggle room at underwriting stage. However, Miss S didnt go 
ahead with her mortgage application and so there was no opportunity for Halifaxs 
underwriters to consider whether any exceptions could be made. 
It was Miss Ss decision to go ahead with a new lender, and I can see the mortgage 
offer was issued on 1 July 2020 for just under £257,000, but over a term of 34 years 
 a much longer term than the Halifax mortgage, which (in July 2020) had 11 years 
left to run.
I cant comment on the criteria Miss Ss new lender applied when considering her 
application. Thats a matter for that lenders own commercial judgement. But after 
considering the information with which Halifax was provided when Miss S made her 
request to remove Mr S from the mortgage, Im not persuaded Halifax acted 
unreasonably in conducting an affordability assessment. 
Having done so, and with the application failing to meet Halifaxs lending criteria for 
the amount Miss S wanted to borrow, Im not persuaded Halifax has done anything 
wrong.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied there is no basis on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to order Halifax to reimburse the ERC.
Responses to the provisional decision
Halifax had nothing further to add and accepted my provisional decision. Miss S has made a 
number of points, which I summarise below.
Miss S doesnt feel that it has been taken into account that her complaint is about the 
mortgage switching from Tesco Bank to Halifax. Tesco Bank had told her that she would 
be able to take on the mortgage in her sole name. If the mortgage had stayed with Tesco Bank, she wouldnt have had this problem. 
She never agreed to a mortgage with Halifax, and if it wont take BTL income into 
account, its unlikely she and her ex-husband would ever have taken out a mortgage with 
Halifax, because BTL properties have always made up a large proportion of their 
income.
Why should she be penalised because Tesco Bank decided to sell the mortgage to 
another company?
Halifax wasnt interested in discussing any options with her, and she wasnt able to 
speak to anyone due to Covid restrictions. Because she was under pressure to comply 
with the court order made in her divorce proceedings, there was no option but to go to 
another lender.
Halifax didnt ask to see any bank statements, wage slips, etc. to assess affordability.
Tesco Bank would have allowed her to continue with the mortgage in her sole name, and 
she did have the £40,000 to pay off the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the start, Ive revisited my provisional decision and Ive 
taken note of the further points made by Miss S.
I will begin by explaining that this complaint is against Halifax, not Tesco Bank. If Miss S is 
unhappy that Tesco Bank sold her mortgage to Halifax, thats something shell need to take 
up with Tesco Bank. However, generally, mortgage terms and conditions will usually contain 
a specific clause which allows lenders to sell the mortgage to another business. In addition, 
a decision taken by Tesco Bank to sell its mortgage book as part of its corporate activities 
isnt something we would look at. So whilst Miss S is free to complain to Tesco Bank about 
its decision to sell her mortgage to Halifax, I think its only fair to explain here that this is 
something Tesco Bank is allowed to do. 
Likewise, there is nothing wrong in Halifax taking over mortgage books from businesses 
which have decided to withdraw from the mortgage market. Usually a new lender will honour 
a mortgage offer issued by the previous business if that offer has not yet completed. But 
there was no offer from Tesco Bank for a mortgage in Miss Ss sole name, because there 
had only been initial discussions about whether or not Tesco Bank would offer Miss S a new 
mortgage.
Likewise, Halifax only ever issued an initial assessment of the application  based on the 
information Miss S had provided about her income (which, it is noted, was substantially 
lower than the income her broker submitted to her new mortgage lender). Halifax reached its 
decision on the basis of the figures it was presented with, not different figures given to 
another lender by Miss Ss broker. Halifax was also entitled to decide that it wouldnt use 
BTL income in its affordability assessment. 
I do understand that it was frustrating for Miss S that she thought her Tesco Bank would 
have given her the mortgage, but due to circumstances outside her control, Halifax wouldnt. 
In this regard, Miss S has changed her position about the overpayments Tesco Bank had 
asked her to make. Miss S originally said that she didnt think it would be a problem that she 
hadnt reduced the mortgage by £40,000 because her increased income would mean she 
would qualify for the mortgage. Miss S is now saying that she would have been able to pay 
off the £40,000 in any event. But whether or not Tesco Bank would have agreed a new mortgage is a moot point, because 
Tesco Bank was in no position to consider an application in 2021. And even if Miss S had 
paid £40,000 off the mortgage, on the figures she presented to Halifax about her income, 
and taking into account Halifaxs lending criteria on BTL income, Miss S would still not have 
met Halifaxs requirements.
I understand what Miss S is saying  that her bank statements and pay slips given to the 
broker enabled him to source a mortgage for her. But this doesnt explain why Miss S 
provided Halifax with income and overtime figures that were substantially lower than what 
she says are the true figures  and it was those lower figures which resulted in Halifax 
explaining that the maximum it could lend Miss S was £183,000.
Miss Ss broker could have applied to Halifax on the figures she provided to him, and he 
could have discussed with Halifaxs underwriters whether, on those figures, there was room 
for Halifax to make an exception in relation to income multipliers and affordability, 
disregarding BTL income. I cant say whether any application would have succeeded 
because that point was never reached. Instead the application was made to a different 
lender, as a result of which the ERC became properly payable to Halifax. 
Overall, after reconsidering the complaint, Im not persuaded theres any basis on which I 
can fairly say that Halifax should be required to reimburse the ERC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman