DRN-3026003
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that they were misled into buying a long-term holiday arrangement. 
Because their purchase was funded by a loan provided by GE Money Consumer Lending 
Limited, they say that it is liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the 
same way as the seller. They say too that the lending was irresponsible and created an 
unfair relationship.   
Mr and Mrs B are now represented by a firm of solicitors, M. 
What happened
In or about September 2008 Mr and Mrs B agreed to buy from a company, S, a long-term 
holiday arrangement at a cost of nearly £17,000. The agreement was to continue until 2033. 
Mr and Mrs B paid for the arrangement with a 10-year loan provided by GE Money. The 
terms of the sale agreement said that all payments should be made to a trustee, H. Mr and 
Mrs Bs finance agreement with GE Money ended at the end of 2009, when they arranged 
alternative financing to repay the initial loan. 
In or about November 2017 Mr and Mrs B complained to GE Money about the agreement. 
They listed 21 areas of concern. These included that the arrangement was misrepresented 
to them, they were told it would be an investment, they were given very little information 
about it, they were told they could resell the holiday arrangements, they were told they would 
receive rental income, that prices rose and that they were subjected to undue pressure.
GE Money responded to say that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act did not apply, 
because payment was made to H, not to S. The necessary link between it (GE Money) and 
the contracting parties was not present. It said too that, given the length of time that had 
passed since the agreement had been made, any claim would be out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980. It did not agree to meet Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
The complaint was referred to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She did 
expressly address GE Moneys argument that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act did not 
apply. She did however conclude that any claim was likely to be time-barred under the 
Limitation Act. In the circumstances, she thought that GE Moneys response to the claim was 
fair. 
M, on behalf of Mr and Mrs B, did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that 
an ombudsman review the case. M said that no proper assessment of the affordability of the 
loan had been made, that S was not authorised to arrange loans, that S had used high 
pressure sales tactics, that GE Money had not disclosed any commission paid to S and that 
there had been fraudulent misrepresentations about the holiday contract. 
GE Money noted that it had issued a final response to a complaint raised in 2012, although 
Mr and Mrs B said that they had not received it.            
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first of all with the complaint that no proper assessment was made to see if Mr 
and Mrs B could afford the loan. This was not originally part of the complaint but was raised 
in response to the investigators initial assessment of it. 
The complaint about the credit assessment
Our own rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six 
years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that GE Money carried out (or 
did not carry out) in or about September 2008. Mr and Mrs B would have known fairly soon 
after that date if they were having difficulty making repayments. They certainly would have 
known within six years. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to 
this service by no later than September 2014. Because it was not, we have no power to 
consider it. 
Section 75
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the holiday contract. Mr and Mrs 
Bs contract was with S; the payment was however to be made to H. The arrangements 
which financed the contract were, on the face of it, between GE Money as lender and H. 
They were not between the lender and the supplier, S. Mr and Mrs B do not suggest they 
have a claim against H. If that analysis is correct, they do not have a claim under section 
75(1) against GE Money. 
They might be able to bring such a claim if S and H are associates, as defined by section 
184 of the Consumer Credit Act. I have not been able to identify any such link, however.  
I have nevertheless gone on to consider the likely effect of the Limitation Act on this case. 
Misrepresentation 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which 
induces someone into a contract. Mr and Mrs B have, through M and their previous 
representatives, set out in some detail the various statements made to them and which led 
them to agree to buy the holiday club membership. They were all made around September 
2008, so that is the date on which any cause of action accrued. Mr and Mrs B therefore had 
until September 2014 to start proceedings against S. If they did so any later, there was a real 
risk that any action would be out of time under the Limitation Act.M said that Mr and Mrs B did not know that they had any claim until some time later. 
Generally, lack of knowledge does not extend a time limit under the Limitation Act (in 
contrast to the position under our own rules). However, the limitation period is postponed 
where an action is based on fraud or the cause of action is concealed from the claimant. M 
says that this applies here. It says:
The clients could not have known that the misrepresentations were fraudulent and what 
remedy was available to them until they provided us with details instructions and we 
informed them of the fraudulent misrepresentations.
M says that it is abundantly clear that fraudulent misrepresentations were made in this 
case. 
I dont believe however it is at all clear that there were fraudulent misrepresentations here. If 
that were the case, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs B would have known about them very 
much sooner than is now claimed. The claim that they had to be advised by their solicitors 
that they had been told things about the holiday contract that were untrue is, in my view, 
surprising. I do of course accept that its possible that S acted fraudulently, but it is no more 
than a possibility. 
I note too that Mr and Mrs B had expressed some concern about the contract to GE Money 
as long ago as 2012. GE Money sent a copy of a letter to them dated 14 March 2012 in 
response to those concerns. Mr and Mrs B say they did not receive that letter. That may be 
so, but it does indicate that they were unhappy with the actions of S many years before they 
raised this complaint.       
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
M says that an unfair relationship arises here because Mr and Mrs B were subjected to 
undue pressure at the point of sale and because S was receiving commission from GE 
Money which was not disclosed. 
A claim under section 140A does not depend on there being a relationship which would be 
covered by section 75. The usual time limit for bringing such a claim would however be six 
years from the end of the finance agreement. In this case the loan agreement ended when it 
was repaid in December 2009. 
M says that Mr and Mrs B were not aware that an unfair relationship existed because they 
were not told that S was receiving commission. Its assertion that it was, however, is no more 
than that  an assertion, unsupported by any evidence. I do not believe that I can fairly say 
that an unfair relationship arose in this case. 
Conclusions
In summary, I have reached the following conclusions:
The complaint that GE Money did not carry out a proper assessment of affordability has 
been made outside the relevant time limits in our own rules.
It is likely that GE Money did not have the necessary relationship with S and H for 
section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act to apply in this case. Even if it did, it is likely that the claims raised under section 75 would be out of time if 
brought in court. 
There is insufficient evidence of an unfair relationship which would allow a court to 
exercise its powers under sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs B have a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against S. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claims 
might be outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider GE 
Moneys response to the complaints made.
In my view, GE Moneys response to those claims was reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require GE Money Consumer Lending 
Limited to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman