DRN-1777054
The complaint
A, a limited company, has complained that Health-on-line Company UK Limited (HOL) mis-
sold it a group private medical insurance policy. A is represented by Miss T, one of its 
employees.
What happened
A held a group private medical insurance policy with a particular insurer. In 2017, Miss T, on 
behalf of A, met with HOL and agreed to switch As cover to a new insurer.
In 2018, Miss T (who was a member of the group scheme) was sadly diagnosed with cancer. 
The new insurer initially agreed to provide cover as she underwent further investigations into 
this.
In 2019, the new insurer told Miss T it would not provide further cover for treatment of her 
cancer. This was because it believed the evidence showed that her cancer was related to 
the breast cancer from which she had previously suffered. It explained that when the policy 
had been taken out in 2017, it was underwritten on the basis of continued medical 
exclusions, meaning that any exclusions to members cover which had been applied by the 
previous insurer would continue to apply under the new policy. In Miss Ts case, this meant 
that her cover was subject to an exclusion for her breast cancer and related conditions.
Miss T complained to the new insurer but it issued a final response letter confirming that it 
would not change its decision.
Miss T, on behalf of A, complained to HOL that it had mis-sold the policy. She said it hadnt 
made clear that any exclusion would apply to her cover.
HOL issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. It highlighted that its adviser 
had carried out a corporate fact find to establish As needs before it recommended the 
particular policy. It was satisfied that the sale had been carried out properly.
A was unhappy at HOLs response. It referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered that 
HOL had done nothing wrong.
Miss T, on behalf of A, didnt accept the investigators findings. She pointed to certain entries 
on the corporate fact find which she believed showed that HOLs adviser had made 
mistakes. She said that while detailed discussions had taken place about the exclusions 
which would apply to another member of the policy, there was no such discussion about her 
own exclusions. She maintained that she had received no paperwork to show that her cover 
was subject to any exclusion. She said she was led to believe that the new policy would 
provide full cancer cover for all members.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me explain that there are various ways to underwrite a private medical insurance policy. 
These are outlined in the insurers policy handbook which was later sent to the members of 
the scheme. These ways include full medical underwriting where the member is required to 
answer detailed questions about their medical history to enable the insurer to determine 
what special terms or exclusions it might apply, and medical history disregarded where the 
insurer agrees to provide cover for any pre-existing conditions the member may have had 
when they joined. In As case, the underwriting was on a continued medical exclusions 
(CME) basis. The handbook describes this as follows:
If you joined us on continuing medical exclusions terms, we are carrying on your 
exclusions for medical conditions from your previous health insurer. This normally means we 
only asked you a few brief medical questions. 
We have listed any special terms or exclusions on your membership certificate  please 
check this carefully. For example, you may not have cover for something specific if you have 
had that condition in the past. Your certificate will also show whether we will remove the 
exclusion after a period of time.
Before making its recommendation for a new policy, HOL carried out a corporate fact find. 
This was completed in discussion with Miss T, acting on behalf of A. The fact find showed 
that A had an existing group private medical insurance policy covering three employees. The 
method of underwriting of this policy was a combination of full medical history and 
continued medical exclusions. HOL recorded that A wanted the new policy to have switch 
underwriting (the ticked box on the form actually refers to conditional switch but the word 
conditional has been crossed out). The form recorded a discussion about an exclusion 
which would apply to the cover for one of the members (not Miss T) due to their recent 
treatment for cancer. At the end of the form, the adviser recorded his recommendation that A 
should switch to a cheaper policy with a new insurer.
I consider that the form, by stating the new policy is to be underwritten on a switch basis, 
doesnt make it entirely clear that this means members previous medical exclusions would 
continue to apply. Having said that, the alternative boxes (which were not ticked) included 
full medical underwriting and medical history disregarded so I have no reason to think that 
Miss T was led to believe that previous exclusions would no longer apply. On balance, I 
consider it likely that a discussion took place so that Miss T, on behalf of A, was made aware 
that the switch was on a CME basis and what this meant. In Miss Ts case, she had an 
existing exclusion on her policy for breast cancer and related conditions so this would 
therefore remain an exclusion under her new policy. I note that the adviser ticked a box 
stating that members certificates from the previous insurer would need to be provided to 
confirm the terms which would apply to the cover.
A has said that, while there was a discussion at the time of sale about another member, 
there was no discussion concerning the specific exclusions which would apply to Miss Ts 
cover. On the corporate fact find, I note there is a question about whether any members had 
received any form of treatment or a consultation for cancer in the past twelve months. Miss T 
referred to the other member, which is why there was a discussion about his cover. 
However, Miss T did not mention her own situation which is why there was no discussion 
specifically about her cover. If she had received treatment in the previous twelve months, 
she should have mentioned this and it would have led to a discussion about the terms of her 
cover. If she hadnt received treatment in the past twelve months, then she didnt need to draw attention to her situation. But this doesnt alter the fact that she had an existing 
exclusion on her policy which would carry across to the new policy.
A has argued that the adviser mistakenly wrote N/A (meaning non-applicable) next to a 
box referring to the terms applying to a conditional switch underwriting. However, I dont 
consider this was a mistake by the adviser. The switch, as explained above, was on a CME 
basis and the terms of conditional switch underwriting therefore didnt apply to the new 
policy.
A has also pointed out that it had asked for the new policy to provide full cancer cover. 
However, Im satisfied that As policy does provide full cancer cover. But this will be subject 
to the exclusions which might apply to individual members. In Miss Ts case, this means 
treatment for breast cancer and related conditions is excluded. 
A agreed to the advisers recommendation for the new policy. Miss T completed the 
application form on its behalf. In respect of the cover for herself, she confirmed that this was 
to be on the basis of:
Switching to us from another insurer (same medical underwriting terms)
I consider this should have led her to understand that any exclusions which previously 
applied to her cover would continue to apply under the new policy.
HOL obtained the members certificates issued by the previous insurer from which the new 
insurer noted that Miss Ts cover was subject to an exclusion for breast cancer and related 
conditions. It accordingly applied a similarly worded exclusion to her cover under the new 
policy.
HOL issued a copy of the new certificate to Miss T. Although Miss T says she never received 
this, Im satisfied it was issued. If she or A received no paperwork, I would have expected 
her to chase this up with either HOL or the new insurer. It was apparent from the new 
certificate that an exclusion continued to apply to Miss Ts policy for breast cancer and 
related conditions.
Overall, and despite my natural sympathy for Miss T, I am satisfied that the sale was 
conducted properly and HOLs recommendation was suitable for A. I consider that HOL 
made A adequately aware that members previous exclusions would continue to apply under 
the new policy.
I should further point out to A and Miss T that, even if I thought HOL hadnt made the 
situation clear, it doesnt necessarily mean that A was prejudiced by the error. This is 
because Im not necessarily persuaded that A would have done anything differently. It was 
being offered similar cover to its existing cover for a cheaper price and Miss T was not aware 
at the time of sale that the continued exclusion would unfortunately become an issue in 
respect of treatment she needed. There was no indication that a switch of provider was 
being sought so that Miss T could obtain cover for conditions which were currently excluded 
under her policy. I therefore consider it likely that A would have gone ahead with the switch 
to the new provider in any case.
And even if any failure to outline the CME underwriting basis had made a difference and 
would have caused A not to undergo the switch, it doesnt necessarily mean that Miss T 
would be in a different position. The exclusion would likely still be on her policy whether that 
policy was held with the previous insurer or the new insurer.Finally, Miss T has complained about the new insurers application of the exclusion to 
decline her claim for ongoing treatment. However, as the investigator has explained, this 
complaint is against HOL concerning the sale of the policy. I cant consider her complaint 
against the actions of the insurer in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T, on behalf 
of A, to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman