DRN-4180055
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) dealt with a claim 
she submitted under S75 Consumer Credit Act (S75), in relation to solar panels she bought 
in 2014. Mrs H believes she was misled by the supplier of the solar panels and is unhappy 
that Barclays did not uphold her claim under S75. 
What happened
In 2014 Mrs H paid £4,650 for solar panels to be fitted to her home. Mrs H says that she 
later realised the supplier of the solar panels had misrepresented the benefits of the solar 
panels, as they are not providing the savings she was told she would get. Mrs H also 
believes that her personal data was shared by the solar panels supplier with other 
companies, as she has been contacted by different businesses about solar panel related 
things. 
Mrs H raised a claim under S75 with Barclays and after considering her claim it explained 
that as Mrs H paid for the solar panels by cheque and bank transfer, it had no liability under 
S75. Mrs H remained unhappy with this and her complaint was ultimately referred to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint but explained that as the solar 
panels were paid for by cheque and bank transfer Barclays had not acted unfairly by 
declining the S75 claim, as S75 did not apply to these types of payment method. 
Mrs H remained unhappy and reiterated that she believes she had been misled by the 
supplier of the solar panels. As the complaint could not be resolved informally it has been 
referred to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all that the parties have provided, I have come to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator, for what are broadly the same reasons. I have not upheld 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs Hs complaint is that she is unhappy that Barclays has not upheld her claim under S75, 
in relation to solar panels she bought in 2014. As has been previously explained, S75 
provides certain protections for consumers for goods or services they have bought using 
certain types of credit. In summary, where there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods a consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider. So if Mrs H was misled by the supplier of the solar panels, for 
example about the benefits or cost of the system, or if the goods or installation of the panels 
was not of satisfactory quality, Barclays might be liable for the failings of the supplier. 
There are however certain requirements for S75 to apply and one very particular condition 
relates to the type of payment used to pay for the goods or services. S75 would typically 
apply to credit cards and point of sale loans. S75 does not however make the bank liable for 
payments made by bank transfer or cheque, which is what I understand was used by Mrs H 
to pay for the solar panels. I have not been presented with anything to show that the 
payment method used by Mrs H would qualify under S75. 
Barclays declined Mrs Hs claim under S75 and while I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for Mrs H, I do not think Barclays acted unfairly by declining the claim, as S75 does not apply 
to the payment methods Mrs H used. Having considered the circumstances of Mrs Hs 
complaint, I dont consider that Barclays has treated Mrs H unreasonably or unfairly by 
declining her claim. I also find no other reason why I can fairly hold Barclays liable for any 
failings of the solar panel supplier in this case, which includes what Mrs H says about being 
misled and how her personal data was used. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman