DRN-4082582
The complaint
Mr M has complained about esure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim by a third party under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms wife (a named driver under Mr Ms policy) was involved in an accident on a 
roundabout colliding with a lorry. The incident was discussed at the scene and as the 
damage was minor Mr M didnt make a claim under his policy. But when the third partys 
insurer contacted esure about the incident it looked into the circumstances surrounding the 
accident and thought that Mrs M would most likely be held at fault for the claim. As Mr M 
wasnt happy about this he complained to esure. And as it maintained its position he 
complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs and Mr M, but he didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He explained that esure was entitled to decide liability under the terms of the 
policy as it had looked to do initially. And didnt think esure had done anything wrong 
including the fact it didnt pass on the other drivers details to Mr M. 
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, but Ill explain why. 
I can understand how difficult and frustrating Mr and Mrs M have found all of this. I say this 
as they were at the scene when the incident happened and know full well what did and didnt 
happen. But as our investigator has explained it isnt the role of this Service to decide 
liability, which is a matter for the courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have acted 
in a fair and reasonable way.
Like most motor insurers esure have a clause in the contract that allows them to take over 
the settlement of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court or 
settle a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers are cautious 
about going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success 
in making these decisions.
But we look to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters and make 
a reasonable assessment of the claim - based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in mind, I have carefully considered how 
esure has handled this claim.
I know Mr M doesnt feel there was a claim as he didnt contact his insurer about the 
accident. However, esure was approached by the third party about the incident and so there 
was a potential claim against Mr Ms policy. esure looked into the circumstances and thought 
it was most likely that Mr and Mrs M would be held at fault if the claim proceeded. It 
considered the account provided by Mrs M and the other side, pictures of the road layout 
and the damage caused to Mr Ms vehicle in deciding that it was likely that Mr and Mrs M 
would be held liable if the claim proceeded.
Fortunately, while the matter has been with this Service for consideration it has been 
established that the third party didnt proceed with the claim so esure has marked this 
incident for information only purposes which means Mr and Mrs M havent got a fault claim 
against them. As they were always duty bound to report this incident themselves then this 
would ordinarily have been recorded this way in any event so I cant criticise esure for this. 
Given all of this I cant conclude that esure has acted unreasonably here in considering the 
third-party claim against Mr and Mrs M and I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
I know Mr M has raised other concerns that, in the main, flow from the liability dispute that 
was the main thrust of his complaint originally. I note that Mr M wouldve liked the other 
drivers details released to him, but I dont think esure has acted unreasonably in not sending 
out the third partys details. And I know Mr M is worried about a possible increase in 
premiums but, as Ive mentioned, he was duty bound to tell esure about the incident in any 
event even if he wasnt planning to make a claim. It is possible that this could affect the risk 
he presents, and so the premium, in the future but ordinarily this will have less of an impact 
than a fault claim. And Mr M is free to complain about this to esure if this happens in the 
future and he doesnt feel this is fair for any reason. 
Finally, I know Mr M has been inconvenienced by all of this and had difficulty getting through 
to esure and generally putting his side of events forward. But there is always a fair degree of 
inconvenience advancing insurance claims and most of this stems from the accident and the 
other side looking to advance a claim against Mr Ms policy. And so, although I can 
understand Mr Ms frustration about this, I dont think esure have acted unreasonably.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman