DRN-3656231
The complaint
Mr L, on behalf of the estate of Miss S, complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c. hasnt paid 
accidental death benefit under Miss S personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S had taken out a MultiProtect personal accident insurance policy which was 
underwritten by MetLife. 
Sadly, in December 2021, whilst Miss S was abroad, she passed away. The treating hospital 
report; post-mortem report and cause of death report all stated that Miss S had died due to 
heart failure. Mr L made a claim on her personal accident policy on behalf of her estate.
MetLife accepted the claim and paid funeral benefit in line with the policy terms. However, it 
didnt think that the circumstances of Miss S death met its policy definition of an accident 
and so it didnt agree to pay accidental death benefit to the estate.
Mr L sent MetLife a police report which stated that Miss S had been assaulted on the date of 
her death. The report said that Miss S cause of death had been extra bleeding due to the 
multiple injuries shed suffered during the attack. 
However, MetLife maintained its decision and relied on the medical evidence from the 
treating hospital and which had been recorded on Miss S cause of death report. It declined 
to pay accidental death benefit.
Mr L was unhappy with MetLifes decision and he asked us to look into this complaint on 
behalf of Miss S estate.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She considered MetLifes 
definition of accident. And she assessed all of the available medical evidence. She noted in 
particular that no external injuries had been recorded on the post-mortem report. So she 
placed more weight on the cause of death, post-mortem and hospital reports, which 
indicated that Miss S death had been due to heart failure.  She didnt think it had been unfair 
for MetLife to conclude that these circumstances didnt fall within its definition of an accident. 
And therefore, she didnt think MetLife needed to pay accidental death benefit to the estate.
Mr L disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He said the medical reports had been 
inconclusive and the police report provided additional information, which shouldnt be seen 
as contradictory. He felt that in an etymological sense, anything that happens can be 
considered to be an accident. He considered that the ordinary meaning of an accident 
should be applied and that it should be interpreted in an insureds favour. The medical report 
had recorded that Miss S had fainted and he questioned whether this had been caused by 
the earlier assault. He was concerned that the investigator may have been swayed by the 
fact that MetLife was a large business. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I think MetLife has handled this claim 
fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr L and Miss S family for their loss. I dont 
doubt what a very upsetting time this has been for them and I was sad to read of the 
circumstances which led to this claim.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss S policy and the available evidence, to decide whether MetLife handled 
this claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of the 
contract between MetLife and Miss S. Section four of the policy covers the accidental death 
benefit which MetLife offers in the event of a successful claim. This says:
Subject to the general exclusions we will pay the policy benefit shown in your policy 
schedule in the event the death of an insured person caused by an accident and occurring 
within 12 months of the date of the accident.
MetLife has defined what it means by an accident/accidental on page 11 of the policy. This 
is:
a sudden identifiable event operating by violent external and visible means, which happens 
by chance and which could not be expected.
In my view, MetLife has made it sufficiently clear that it will pay accidental death benefit if a 
policyholders death is caused by an accident. And Im satisfied that its clearly set out its 
definition of an accident, which I think its reasonably entitled to rely upon when assessing 
claims. Id add that in my experience, most, if not all, insurers include similar definitions of 
the word accident.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder (or their representative) to 
provide enough evidence to show they have a valid claim on their policy. That means that in 
order for MetLife to be liable for accidental death benefit, Mr L, as Miss S legal 
representative, needs to provide enough evidence to show that Miss S death was caused by 
an accident in line with the definition Ive set out above.
MetLife concluded that based on all of the available evidence, Miss S claim didnt fall within 
the definition of an accident and so it declined to pay accidental death benefit. Ive therefore 
looked carefully at all of the available evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion 
for MetLife to draw.
Ive first looked at the medical report from the treating hospital. This said that Miss S had 
abruptly fainted at a party while complaining of chest pain. It set out medications that Miss S 
had been given and stated a diagnosis of heart failure.
Next, Ive considered the post-mortem report. This also gave a clinical diagnosis of heart 
failure. The pathologist stated that Miss S had suffered multiple myocardial infarctions, 
cardiomyopathy. They concluded: Findings suggest (Miss S) died of heart failure. Additionally, the pathologist noted that Miss S had no external lacerations or bruises.
The cause of death report, which was also signed and stamped on the date of Miss S death, 
gave her cause of death as heart failure, secondary to hypertensive disease.
I dont think it was unreasonable for MetLife to conclude that heart failure didnt fall within its 
definition of an accident. I say that because while Miss S fainting and subsequent passing 
were likely very sudden and shocking to Mr L, I dont think I could fairly conclude that heart 
failure was caused by violent, visible or external means. 
Mr L provided the police report which was dated around three weeks later, 18 January 2022. 
This stated that Miss S had been assaulted by five unknown persons at around 17.45 on the 
day of her death. The report said that Miss S died as she was being rushed to hospital 
without being able to access any medical personnel and that during investigation, her cause 
of death had been found to be due to extra bleeding caused by multiple injuries.
Ive considered this evidence very carefully. If Miss S death had been caused by an assault, 
Id agree that it fell squarely within MetLifes definition of an accident. Both the medical 
reports and police reports state that Miss S died whilst she was being rushed to hospital. 
The medical evidence though indicates that she died in an ambulance, having received 
some treatment. The report was signed by a doctor. This indicates to me that Miss S did 
most likely receive treatment by medical professionals. 
And while the police report states that Miss S cause of death was bleeding due to multiple 
injuries; it appears that the pathologist who completed the post-mortem report specifically 
noted that theyd found no external lacerations or bruises. Neither does the medical report 
refer to Miss S showing any sign of multiple injuries which would indicate that her death was 
caused by an assault. So on balance, I think it was reasonable for MetLife to place more 
weight on the contemporaneous medical evidence provided by the treating doctor and the 
pathologist whod examined Miss S, when concluding that her death hadnt been caused by 
an accident.
Overall, this means that I think it was fair for MetLife to conclude that Mr L hasnt shown that 
Miss S death fell within the scope of accidental death cover. I note that the policy says that if 
a policyholder dies of a non-accidental cause within the term of the policy, MetLife will pay 
funeral benefit. I understand that MetLife settled Miss S estates claim under this section of 
the policy. As Im satisfied MetLife was reasonably entitled not to pay accidental death 
benefit, it follows that I find MetLife appropriately settled this claim in line with the funeral 
benefit cover. While I sympathise with Mr Ls position, Im not directing MetLife to pay 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
S to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman