DRN-4002955
The complaint
Miss C says MBNA Limited, has treated her unfairly in relation to the purchase of a package 
holiday on her credit card.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss Cs MBNA Limited credit card paid for a package holiday for 
relatives. The holiday was cancelled by the holiday supplier due to the pandemic. Miss C 
was offered a voucher but wasnt offered a refund. So she complained but the supplier didnt 
offer a refund. So Miss C complained to MBNA.
MBNA says it considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund 
her. So Miss C, still unsatisfied, brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt MBNA should refund her. But MBNA disagree, so this complaint came 
to me for a decision. In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision stating that the 
chargeback was out of time and the required relationship for MBNA to be liable under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975 wasnt in place. And so it was my provisional 
position that MBNA had done nothing wrong in not refunding Miss C. 
MBNA responded by saying it had nothing further to add. Miss C hasnt responded and the 
deadline for responses has passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any arguments or evidence on the matter I see no reason to 
deviate from the rationale as broadly set out in my provisional decision which is reiterated 
(and updated to reflect the lack of further argument) below.
Miss Cs MBNA credit card was used to pay for the package holiday. This means MBNA 
may have certain responsibilities to Miss C which arise from the relevant law, specifically, 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in certain 
circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Miss C to hold MBNA liable for breaches 
of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made as long as certain 
criteria are met.
Ive considered what we know here about when Miss C raised the matter with MBNA and the 
details of the dispute and what we know of the chargeback rules in place regarding time 
limits. Im satisfied on balance Miss C was out of time and hence I dont think Miss C has 
been treated unfairly with regard to the chargeback scheme by MBNA not taking chargeback 
further. 
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Miss Cs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing provided to the 
supplier for the purchase being made)
A creditor (who has to provide the borrowed amount direct to the supplier and recoup 
from the debtor)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor and receive the 
purchase price from the creditor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Miss C) should have a 
contractual relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the package supplier) 
as well as with the credit provider (the Creditor-MBNA). And this is the crux of the complaint 
here. 
Miss Cs account was used to book the package and Miss Cs card financed the transaction. 
But she wasnt travelling and so wasnt one of the two contracting parties who were travelling 
and using the accommodation. I say this because in the recording of a telephone 
conversation from June 2021 Miss Cs representative (who is one of her parents) explained 
that the holiday was purchased by Miss C for her parents to go on. It was also explained that 
one of the people due to travel had a significant health condition which prevented travel. I 
also note that although some emails have been provided the actual booking confirmation 
hasnt been provided nor any of the tickets. I asked the Investigator to contact Miss Cs 
representative to provide this evidence and it hasnt been supplied nor have arguments been 
provided in response to my provisional decision within the timeline set out. So, based on the 
evidence available to me Im satisfied Miss C wasnt due to go on this holiday. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the package suppliers and it defines the parties it 
contracts with as a person taking advantage of the services offered by (the Supplier), all 
other persons (if any) included with that person in the booking are included in the expression 
"you", "your", a "client" or "passenger". And I note that to qualify as a contractor under this 
term there is in essence a two-stage test namely:
1) A person taking advantage of the services and
2) Included with that person in the booking
As a consequence as Miss C wasnt either of the named passengers, Im satisfied she 
wasnt included with that person in the booking so doesnt meet the definition of a party that 
the supplier contracted with. I also note that Im not satisfied she met the definition of a 
person taking advantage of the services offered by the supplier either.
S75 requires that this three-party relationship to be in place. But although Miss C funded the 
transaction she clearly isnt one of the contracting parties as per the suppliers stated 
contract terms. Neither is she a named passenger which would indicate she had a 
contractual relationship with the suppliers either. So the necessary relationship isnt in place. 
Accordingly MBNA hasnt treated unfairly by not taking her claim forward or refunding her, 
albeit its reasons for doing so are different to mine.
It should also be remembered that MBNA only have potential liability here under S75 
because this legislation was passed. If it wasnt for this there would be no potential liability for MBNA here. And bearing this in mind and that the legislation is clear that certain criteria 
are required to be met for MBNA to be held liable, it is perfectly reasonable for such criteria 
to be tested when considering claims made to it. And if the legislation was designed to 
protect people in similar situations to Miss C, then it would have been drafted accordingly.
So all in all having considered the matter fully and everything Miss C has said, it is my 
decision that MBNA has treated Miss C fairly by not refunding her, albeit for differing reasons 
to my position. Im not persuaded that the required relationship is made out for the issues 
Miss C complains about. And I think the chargeback was out of time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman