DRN-3218423
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed him to increase the overdraft limits 
on his two accounts to a level beyond what he could afford to repay.
What happened
 Mr W complained to Barclays about the overdraft limits on his accounts. He says that in 
2017 Barclays was irresponsible to allow him to increase his overdraft limits on multiple 
occasions over a relatively short period of time. Mr W ended up with overdrafts that he says 
he could not afford to repay, and he feels Barclays didnt do enough checks to make sure he 
could afford the limit increases he applied for. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. And as 
Mr W was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr W has also complained about a loan he took out with Barclays to repay the overdrafts. 
The loan will be looked at under a separate complaint reference, so this decision will only 
consider the overdrafts.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Barclays 
should have realised that Mr W was increasing his overdraft limits beyond what he could 
reasonably afford to repay. So she recommended that Barclays refund the interest and 
charges applied to Mr Ws accounts from 26 August 2017 (account ending 54) and 29 
August 2017 (account ending 83).
Barclays felt that it had treated Mr W fairly, but nonetheless offered to refund charges 
applied from November 2016 (account ending 83) and January 2017 (account ending 54) as 
a gesture of goodwill. Mr W remained unhappy that Barclays had not agreed it had done 
anything wrong, so as an agreement could not be reached the complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges, and when considering whether a lender acted responsibly in providing 
further lending. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with the findings of our adjudicator 
that Barclays should have identified that Mr Ws overdraft borrowing was beginning to be a 
problem by August 2017. However, Im satisfied that what Barclays has now offered to do is 
a reasonable way to resolve this complaint. Barclays offer goes beyond what our adjudicator 
recommended it to do, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Putting things right
 As per the offer Barclays has made, it should:
- Refund all charges applied to account ending 83 from November 2016 to date
- Refund all charges applied to account ending 54 from January 2017 to date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above, but I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman