DRN-2734084
The complaint
Mrs T complains that, in 2009, Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
Mrs T had had a bank account with Barclays Bank since 2001. In 2009 this was changed 
from a fee-free account to a Premier Life PBA account. This cost £25 each month, unless 
you qualified for a discount  it then cost £17.50 instead. Mrs T qualified for this lower cost in 
2009 when the PBA started. 
The account number was changed in 2010, because of a fraud on the account. The Premier 
Life was transferred across to this new account. I regard that as an administrative change, 
rather than a new sale. 
When the PBA started in 2009, it had a number of benefits attached to it. These included:
No interest to pay on overdrafts up to £1000, and lower rates beyond that
Car breakdown
Travel insurance
Mobile phone and gadget insurance
Extended warranty
Airport lounge access
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs T didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs T says she was pressured into taking the PBA when she went into a branch. She 
says she didnt want the account. 
Ive considered this, and also generally looked at whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
The problem I have, in deciding on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by 
the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set 
out the possible benefits of a type of bank account, even if the adviser is partly motivated 
by making a sale  as long as the account is actually something worth having and it is 
clear the customer still has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have 
no real sensible alternative to taking the account, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I 
cant be sure exactly what was said. I realise it would be very difficult for Mrs T to now 
prove what was said to her; but it wouldnt be fair to say the adviser did something wrong 
unless I had stronger evidence of this. And I dont have that evidence.
It does look as though there was some kind of discussion, with a note made that Mrs T 
could potentially make a saving  it doesnt say why, but its likely to be because she was 
paying interest on her overdraft, whereas she could pay less if she took the Premier Life. 
But I dont think the PBA was recommended in the sense that Barclays told Mrs T it had 
looked at all her circumstances and was recommending the PBA as a good fit for her. 
However, I dont anyway see that a recommendation would have been inappropriate. I 
can see from Mrs Ts bank statements that, in the two months before she agreed to take 
the PBA, she paid more than £17.50 in overdraft interest. Whereas, after the PBA started, 
she paid small amounts in interest, apparently for the times she had used more than 
£1000 of her overdraft. So, at the time, the cost of the PBA was often largely paid for, in 
saved interest. 
Mrs T also had a car, and so the breakdown cover would have been of value  and in fact 
she used it 2014. She also used the airport lounge access. 
So, even if she wasnt interested in some of the benefits, the combination of the 
potentially-useful aspects of the PBA would have made a recommendation appropriate. I 
cant be sure whether Barclays gave Mrs T all the information for her to make a fully 
informed decision about whether to take the PBA. But, because there were several 
potentially useful benefits, I dont see that fuller information is likely to have changed 
whether she took the PBA. 
Mrs T has said about medical conditions she had  and I do think this would have made 
the travel insurance cover not as useful to her as it would to some other people. But she 
was still covered in many respects. So I dont think Barclays pointing out these restrictions 
is likely to have stopped her taking the PBA with its other benefits. 
Overall, I dont have good evidence that this PBA was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman