DRN-3169240
The complaint
Miss B complains about the service Nationwide Building Society provided when she wanted 
to port her mortgage and the early repayment charge she had to pay when she decided to 
move to another lender.
What happened
Miss B took out a mortgage with Nationwide Building Society in 2019 with a two-year fixed 
interest rate product. Miss B was liable for an early repayment charge if she repaid the 
mortgage during that two-year period. 
In mid-October 2020 Miss B approached Nationwide about porting her mortgage to a new 
property as she was relocating for work. Nationwide initially turned down her application. But 
following a review by their underwriters, they agreed to lend in principle towards the end of 
October.
Nationwide offered Miss B an appointment to go through her application in mid-November. 
Miss B wasnt happy about the delay as she wanted to complete her purchase in time to 
start her new job in December. She accepted the appointment but told Nationwide shed look 
for another product through her broker in the meantime.
Miss Bs broker found her an alternative mortgage with another lender who was able to 
process her application and arrange valuations quickly. But since the other lender hadnt 
made a mortgage offer by the time of her appointment with Nationwide, she went ahead with 
the appointment. Nationwide acknowledged theyd made an error at the beginning of her 
application and things had taken longer than they should. And Miss B decided to move her 
mortgage to another lender.
Nationwide considered Miss Bs complaint and offered her £150 compensation. She didnt 
think that was enough given the stressful time shed had. And, since she felt she had no 
alternative but to change lenders, Miss B thought Nationwide should refund the early 
repayment charge (ERC) she paid for redeeming her mortgage early. 
Miss B wasnt happy with Nationwides proposals for resolving her complaint, so she brought 
it to this service. Our investigator thought Nationwides offer of compensation was enough to 
put things right. Since Miss B wasnt happy with our investigators view, Ive considered 
everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Miss Bs strength of feeling about what happened. And I understand that, 
after many years with Nationwide, feeling she had no option but to take her business 
elsewhere will have been disappointing.
Miss Bs application was initially turned down because of her credit score. Miss B says 
Nationwide asked her to provide credit score information from some credit reference 
agencies and provide those to Nationwide for them to consider. I can understand Miss B was 
unhappy to hear during her appointment in November that Nationwide could probably have 
approved her application at the outset, particularly as her application was taking longer than 
shed have liked.
Nationwides explained her case was reviewed by Nationwides underwriters and accepted 
in principle by around the end of October. Theyve acknowledged processing Miss Bs 
application took longer than their standard timescales. An application was put through for her 
on the appointment call in November, but shortly afterwards, Miss B decided not to go 
ahead.
I think Miss B could have allowed that application to go ahead at that point. It may have 
caused her some inconvenience if the time it then took Nationwide to make an offer had led 
to a delay in completing her purchase of her new property. But Miss B made the choice to 
redeem the Nationwide mortgage. It was clear from the mortgage offer shed have to pay an 
ERC. And the Nationwide representative told her on the call they wouldnt waive the charge. 
Miss B went ahead knowing shed have to pay it. In the circumstances, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Nationwide to repay the ERC to Miss B.
Ive thought about the compensation Nationwide offered Miss B. I think obtaining credit file 
information would have taken time and caused Miss B some inconvenience. Miss Bs 
explained she has a stressful job and was under pressure to move to take up a new role. I 
can understand the steps she took and concerns about whether shed be able to port her 
mortgage will have added to an already stressful situation. Bearing everything in mind, and 
whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Miss C, I think the apology and offer of £150 
Nationwide made is reasonable compensation in the circumstances. If Nationwide hasnt 
already paid the compensation to Miss B, I recommend they do so now. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman