DRN-3457682
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined Mr Rs claim under their 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 March 2021 Mrs and Mr R took out a private medical insurance policy with Aviva on a 
continued moratorium underwriting basis. Theyd previously had private medical insurance 
with another insurer on a moratorium basis and transferred to Avivas policy.
The policy set out the following terms and conditions for the continued moratorium:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related conditions, if 
you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition in the five years before your initial date of cover. Your initial date of 
cover is the date you started cover with your first insurer (provided there has been no 
break in cover since then).
However, we will cover that condition if you do not have:
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition during a continuous two year period after your initial date of cover.
The initial date of cover that applied to Mrs and Mr R was 1 March 2019.
In May 2021 Mr R claimed for a problem with his back which Aviva initially agreed to cover.  
The procedure Mr R had was unsuccessful and he wanted a second opinion. 
At that point Aviva asked for and assessed Mr Rs medical records and declined the claim. It 
said the medical evidence showed Mr Rs back pain started in June 2014, within the five 
years before 1 March 2019, so his back problem was a pre-existing condition. And the 
medical evidence showed Mr R had a GP prescription for a strong painkiller, tramadol, for 
his back pain on 7 September 2020 which was within the two years after 1 March 2019. So 
Aviva said under the policy terms the claim wasnt covered. 
Aviva accepted it hadnt followed the correct claim process when it incorrectly agreed cover 
for the initial claim and wasnt asking Mr R to repay the costs it had already paid. It also said 
there had been a slight delay in finalising the claim assessment. It paid Mr R £200 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its service issues.
Mrs and Mr R complained to us. In summary they said:
Mr R requested the tramadol prescription as a precaution and still had the majority of 
the tablets. Mr R hadnt seen the GP to get the prescription so hadnt sought advice 
or taken medication within the two relevant two years.
He didnt have a back condition in 2020, if so he would have claimed from his 
previous insurer.
Aviva was hiding behind the policy wording to decline the claim and his request for 
medication as a precaution didnt establish he had a back condition at the time.
Tramadol wasnt a specific treatment for back pain.
Aviva should cover the claim.
Our investigator said Aviva fairly declined the claim. He said if Mr R could provide evidence 
from his GP that the tramadol prescription was for a separate medical condition we would 
consider that evidence.
Mrs and Mr R disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. Mr R emphasised that he 
hadnt taken the medication during the relevant period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle all claims promptly and fairly, and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. I think Aviva reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain 
why.
The contract for the insurance is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs and 
Mr R have with Aviva. Ive set out the policy terms for the continued moratorium above.
The policy defines pre-existing condition as any disease, illness or injury for whichyou 
have received mediation, advice or treatment, or you have experienced symptomswhether 
the condition has been diagnosed or not before you joined the policy.
And related conditions are defined in the policy as diseases, illnesses or injuries that would 
be considered by reasonable medical opinion to be the result of the other. Or, have come 
about as a result of the same disease, illness or injury.
Mr Rs medical records show in June 2014 he saw a spinal and orthopaedic consultant for 
facet joint injections due to his back pain. 
The GP notes of 10 September 2018 says:
(Mr R) says he gets pain in his back on and off and he uses Tramadol to help with 
the pain and he has hurt his back this morning and would like to get a script.Says he last took a script for the medication in 2015.
Im satisfied that from the medical evidence available Aviva could reasonably consider 
Mr Rs back problem was a pre-existing condition under the terms of the policy. Hed 
received treatment, medication and advice for the condition in the five years before the 
policy with his first insurer started on 1 March 2019.
The policy terms set out that Mr R would be covered for his back condition, or any related 
condition, only if from 1 March 2019 he had a continuous period of two years without having 
medication, diagnostic tests, treatment or advice for the condition.
Mr Rs GPs notes show that in September 2020 the GP gave Mr R a further prescription of 
tramadol. 
Aviva said GPs dont issue such a prescription without reviewing and understanding the 
patients medical history. It thought when Mr R asked for the prescription a discussion with 
his GP would have occurred so the prescription could be issued, which it considered as 
being advice. Mr R says he didnt see the GP to get the prescription. Ive seen no notes of a 
discussion between the GP and Mr R. But even if I thought that meant Mr R didnt get advice 
about the condition in September 2020 he was prescribed medication.
Mr R says tramadol isnt a specific treatment for back pain. But I think Aviva reasonably 
considered the prescription of tramadol was related to Mr Rs back condition. Hed been 
prescribed tramadol in June 2014, July 2015 and September 2018 for his back pain. The 
pain specialists letters of June and July 2021 say Mr R had been taking tramadol on and off 
to manage his back pain and Mr R says he got the medication as a precaution. Ive seen no 
evidence from Mr Rs GP that the tramadol didnt relate to his back condition.
Mr R says he didnt take the medication in or around September 2020 so Aviva cant fairly 
decline the claim. In September 2021 he told Aviva he still had 86 of the 100 tablets required 
and I understand he sent photos to Aviva which he says shows he had the majority of the 
tables at that time. Hes also said he didnt take the tablets until after March 2021, when  the 
relevant two year period had ended.
The policy wording says Mr R wont be covered for his back condition if he had medication 
for the condition in the two year period after 1 March 2019. So under the strict policy terms 
the fact that Mr R had the medication prescribed is enough for Aviva to decline the claim.
Ive also considered whether on a fair and reasonable basis Aviva declined the claim. 
Mr R says in September 2020 he asked for the tramadol to be prescribed as a precaution, in 
the same way someone would ask for paracetamol or ibuprofen. But I think its reasonable 
for Aviva to consider that something triggered Mr Rs request for strong painkilling 
medication for his back pain to be prescribed. Paracetamol or ibuprofen is available from a 
pharmacy over the counter, tramadol is only available on prescription. I think Mr Rs request 
for the tramadol prescription more likely than not suggests he was experiencing back pain 
and needed something stronger than over the counter painkillers.
The consultant orthopaedic surgeon who Mr R saw in May 2021 says in his letter dated 
18 May 2021 that Mr R  had recurrent episodes of back pain since the lockdown, potentially 
due to the lack of activity and change of lifestyle. Its reasonable for Aviva to understand that 
since lockdown would be from March 2020 and recurrent episodes of back pain from March 
2020 would tie in with Mr R getting the prescription for his back pain in September 2020.Mr R says the consultants comments dont mean he took the medication in or around 
September 2020. But I think given the overall evidence Aviva reasonably considered it was 
more likely than not that Mr R did have back pain for which he took some prescribed 
medication (even if not the whole amount he was prescribed) within the two years after 
1 March 2019.
Mr Rs also said that if he had back pain at that time he would have claimed from his 
previous insurer. But there was nothing to claim at that point, hed got medication from his 
GP and not sought further treatment for his back condition. 
Im satisfied Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim on the basis that Mr R had 
medication for his back condition within the two years after 1 March 2019 which under the 
policy terms meant there was no cover for the condition.
Aviva fairly said it isnt seeking a refund from Mr R for the initial treatment he had which it 
incorrectly authorised and paid for. I note Aviva paid Mr R £200 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience caused by how it handled the claim and Mr R hasnt said he 
seeks more compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman