DRN-3611804
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
handled his chargeback claim. Hes also unhappy that his section 75 claim was declined.
What happened
Mr K entered into a contract with a supplier for the supply and installation of a new kitchen. 
He paid a deposit of £1479.20 using his Barclaycard.
Mr K says that he agreed with the supplier that his deposit would be refunded as soon as his 
application for finance had been approved. Mr K says that this discussion took place face to 
face with the supplier and was later confirmed in an email.
Mr Ks application for finance was approved but the supplier failed to refund the deposit.
Unable to resolve matters with the supplier, Mr K contacted Barclaycard.
Barclaycard initially processed a chargeback and credited Mr Ks account. However, the 
supplier successfully challenged the chargeback. Barclaycard also investigated a claim 
under section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 but said the evidence supplied by Mr K 
didnt demonstrate that a refund was due.
Mr K wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Barclaycard had processed the 
chargeback correctly. In relation to section 75, the investigator said that the evidence didnt 
show that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view. He said hed agreed with the supplier that his 
deposit would be refunded if he was accepted for a 0% finance deal. Mr K said that once his 
finance had been approved, the supplier kept telling him that his refund would be processed 
by its head office, but it was never refunded. Mr K said the contract had been 
misrepresented to him and he felt that his section 75 claim should be reconsidered.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ks complaint. The investigator looked at the emails between 
Mr K and the supplier and said he accepted that the supplier had agreed to part of the 
contents of Mr Ks email, which included Mr Ks reference to an agreement that the deposit 
would be refunded once finance was approved. The investigator went on to look at whether 
a false statement of fact had persuaded Mr K to enter the contract. The investigator said he 
didnt think that was the case because the suppliers terms and conditions stated that the 
contract formed the whole agreement between Mr K and the supplier, and that there was no 
reference to a refund of Mr Ks deposit in the contract. The investigator concluded that there 
hadnt been a misrepresentation.
Mr K disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
How Barclaycard handled the chargeback
When Mr K first contacted Barclaycard about his deposit, Barclaycard attempted a 
chargeback. Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers (in this case, Barclaycard) and merchants (in this case, the supplier of the 
kitchen). Transaction disputes are decided based on the rules set by the relevant card 
scheme.
Mr Ks chargeback wasnt successful. The supplier challenged the chargeback. It provided 
the agreement and said that the deposit had been correctly taken. And although Mr K 
provided some evidence, Barclaycard said this wasnt enough to show that a refund was 
due. Barclaycard looked at all the available evidence and decided not to take the settlement 
dispute further. Based on what Ive seen and taking into account the evidence that was 
considered by Barclaycard, I think Barclaycard handled the chargeback claim fairly.
Section 75 claim
This service would expect a card issuer to consider whether there was a claim under section 
75 if a chargeback claim isnt successful. I can see that Barclaycard considered Mr Ks claim 
under section 75 and didnt think it would succeed.
Ive thought about whether Barclaycard acted reasonably in its response to the section 75 
claim.
Under section 75 the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against 
the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of goods or services.
In order to uphold Mr Ks complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that Barclaycards response to the section 75 claim 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
In summary, a breach of contract is where one party to the contract fails to do something it 
agreed to do. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer 
to enter into a contract.
Mr K says that he discussed and agreed with the supplier that his deposit would be refunded 
once his application for finance was approved. Mr K points to an email dated 28 June 2019 
as evidence of such an agreement. 
Ive looked at the email. Under the heading Deposit, Mr K wrote as follows:
I am happy to pay you 10% deposit subject to the full understanding as discussed and 
agreed that in the event we find the cost of additional work too expensive (in our discretion) 
and not within our budget, then we reserve the right to cancel this order and the deposit paid 
will be fully refunded within two working days.
Later on in the same email, under the heading Finance, Mr K wrote as follows:Your offer comes with three years interest free payment and the order is placed subject to 
this understanding that will qualify interest free offer, of course, subject to acceptance by the 
finance company. If for any reason we are not accepted, then we reserve the right to cancel 
the order and deposit will be refunded in full.
Mr K then wrote:
Once finance is approved, you will refund the 10% deposit immediately. This should be 
done within 5 days as any delays would almost result being billed by my credit card issuer 
however if the refund is carried out immediately, it will cancel out the amount you have 
processed.
In response to Mr Ks email, the supplier wrote:
Confirmation the below is correct apart from one thing.
The supplier then went on to highlight the additional costs of installing appliances and 
concluded:
Apart from that all is correct.
With these emails in mind, Ive gone on to consider whether there was a breach of contract 
or a misrepresentation. 
Mr Ks email purports to record matters which were discussed and agreed with the supplier. 
Mr K has told this service that these discussions took place in the suppliers showroom. 
There arent any notes of these discussions and theres no statement from the sales 
representative. So, I cant be certain of exactly what was discussed and agreed. I accept that 
the supplier has confirmed that what Mr K set out in his email was correct, but I do have 
concerns about the circumstances in which Mr K asserted that he was going to receive a 
refund of his deposit. On any analysis, the email reads as if Mr K would receive a refund of 
his deposit in any event. By that I mean Mr K anticipated receiving a refund in the event of 
cancellation of the contract, in the event of not obtaining finance, and in the event of being 
approved for finance.
Ive gone on to look at the contemporaneous documentation, because this is a good 
indication of what the parties agreed at the time.
The suppliers contract says that the terms of the contract, together with the order, form the 
whole agreement between Mr K and the supplier, and that any terms that the customer 
seeks to impose or incorporate are excluded. The contract doesnt say anything about the 
deposit being refunded.
This means that, even if Mr K intended to include terms about the circumstances in which his 
deposit would be refunded, these terms wouldnt form part of the contract and therefore cant 
be enforced as against the supplier. 
Even if I was satisfied that the supplier had made an untrue statement of fact, I dont think 
this was the main reason for Mr K entering into the contract. If Mr K was only willing to enter 
into the contract on the basis that his deposit would be refunded in any event, (which is what 
his email says) then I think he wouldve checked the contract very carefully before signing it 
to make sure that these terns were included. The fact that Mr K entered into the contract 
without any terms about a refund of his deposit suggest to me that the refund of the deposit 
wasnt the only or main reason for Mr K entering the contract.Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that theres been a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Barclaycard acted unfairly or unreasonably when it handled the chargeback and section 75 
claims. I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman