DRN-3490838
The complaint
Mr A and Miss K complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a marker about 
Miss K on a fraud prevention database in connection with a mortgage application they made 
together.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr A and Miss K applied for a mortgage with Barclays. Their mortgage 
application was declined. Shortly before the application, they applied for a mortgage with 
another lender. That application was declined too. When Barclays turned them down they 
went on to make another mortgage application with a third lender in March 2020. That 
application was also declined.
In 2020 Mr A and Miss K found out that Barclays had recorded a marker about Miss K on 
National Hunter, a fraud prevention database, in connection with the mortgage application. 
They also found out that the other lenders had left markers on the National Hunter database.
Mr A and Miss K want the marker removed, so they complained to Barclays. They 
complained to the other lenders too. Those lenders agreed to remove the markers they were 
responsible for.
Barclays sent Mr A its final response in October 2020. It said it wouldnt remove the marker 
as it thought it had been applied correctly. So Mr A and Miss K complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She didnt recommend that Barclays removed 
the marker. She said that when Barclays checked the information Mr A and Miss K had 
provided in connection with their mortgage application Barclays wasnt able to confirm the 
information theyd provided about Miss Ks income. 
Our investigator also said that in their Barclays mortgage application Mr A and Miss K had 
said that theyd both started new jobs a few months before the application. The application 
said Miss K had started her new job in February 2019, but that wasnt the case. Miss K had 
actually started her job in May 2019. 
Our investigator also considered Mr A and Miss Ks P60 forms. She said that these showed 
that they didnt have the income they said they did until the end of the relevant tax year. 
Mr A said theyd always been clear about when Miss K had started her new job (in May 
2019) so he wasnt responsible for the mistake about that. He also told our investigator that 
theyd both reduced their hours in March 2020 to take care of their children during the covid-
19 pandemic. So that accounted for the reduction in income (compared to the income their 
declared in their mortgage application) our investigator could see in the P60.
Our investigator asked Mr A and Miss K to provide us with letters from their employers to set 
out the changes theyd made to their contracted hours. The relevant letters were dated 28 
February and 2 March 2020  before the covid-19 lockdowns were put in place in the United 
Kingdom. The letters confirmed that Mr A and Miss Ks would both be moving to part time 
hours and that their salaries would be affected from March 2020. The letters didnt set out 
what their new hours would be or the effect of those changes on their salaries. Our 
investigator said that when Mr A and Miss K made their third mortgage application on 10 
March 2020 (with the third lender  not Barclays) they declared their full-time incomes. In 
other words they didnt say that they were working part time.
Taking the matter as a whole, our investigator thought that Barclays had reasonable grounds 
to add the marker it did to the fraud prevention database. So she didnt recommend that 
Barclays remove it.
Mr A and Miss K remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
So it has been passed on to me to decide. Mr A said the changes they both made to their 
working hours in March 2020 were temporary. There were no changes to their contracts. So 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think that Barclays needs to do anything to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
As our investigator said, fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial 
services landscape, allowing sharing of information and assisting in the prevention of fraud. 
However, the consequences for an individual of being added to a database can be severe, 
so its important that a marker is only entered where it can be justified. Ive been mindful of 
that when considering this complaint.
The standard of proof for putting a marker on the fraud prevention databases is that there 
must be clear, relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that Barclays could confidently 
report the matter to the police or other authorities (whether or not it has actually done so). 
The standard required is therefore one of reasonable suspicion, not proof. But there must be 
evidence of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
Ive considered the evidence provided about Mr A and Miss Ks income when they applied 
for the Barclays mortgage.
In their mortgage application Mr A and Miss K said theyd both started new jobs a few 
months before the mortgage application was made and that they made around £95,000 
between them. The available evidence shows this was a significant increase from the 
income theyd made in the previous tax year. So I understand Barclays wanted to check 
those figures.  
Barclays says it wasnt able to verify the information Miss K had given about her salary and 
employment with HMRC, so it recorded the marker about Miss K on the National Hunter 
database. Im not persuaded that Barclays inability to verify that information was enough in 
itself to meet the standard of proof required for putting a marker on the National Hunter 
database. Instead I think Barclays inability to verify Miss Ks income should have prompted 
it to carry out a further investigation to determine whether there was a good reason for the 
failure to verify, or evidence that the income declared was false. In this case I need to consider whether Barclays failure to carry out a further, full 
investigation into Miss Ks income before it added the marker to the National Hunter 
database means that it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Barclays to the 
remove the marker from the database. I dont think it does. Ill explain why.
I think its helpful to say here that I have a wide investigative remit. So my role is to take all 
the available evidence into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
complaint. That includes the information available to me in connection with the markers the 
other two lenders added (and later removed) on to the National Hunter database. Mr A and 
Miss K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about those markers too.
Having considered all that information, and having weighed up all the evidence and 
arguments very carefully, I think its likely that if Barclays had carried out a full investigation 
into Miss Ks income it would have concluded that there was evidence to support it putting a 
marker on the National Hunter database. 
Amongst other things, I think that Mr A and Miss Ks P60 forms show that they didnt have 
the income they said they did until the end of the relevant tax year. 
Mr A has told us that he and Miss K both reduced their hours from March 2020 to look after 
their children during the covid-19 pandemic. Im conscious that Mr A and Miss K didnt let the 
third lender know theyd reduced their working hours at that time, and Ive considered what 
Mr A has said about why that happened. Im also conscious that the letters Ive been 
provided with from Mr A and Miss Ks employers didnt say what their working hours would 
be after they were reduced March 2020, or what the impact would be on Mr A and Miss Ks 
income.
Ive also considered all the evidence the other two lenders provided us with. Although I 
accept that the other two lenders decided to remove the markers they had put on the 
National Hunter website, I dont think it follows that Barclays should remove the marker it put 
on the National Hunter website about Miss K. 
Taking the matter as a whole, and taking all the available evidence into account, I think that 
if Barclays had carried out a full investigation into Miss Ks income it would have concluded 
that it reasonable grounds to add the marker to the National Hunter database. So while I 
appreciate that it made should have done more to investigate before it added the marker 
about Miss K to the National Hunter database, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to require Barclays to remove the marker. Nor do I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me require Barclays to compensate Mr A and Miss K for the way it 
considered their mortgage application.
I appreciate that Mr A and Miss K are unlikely to be happy with my decision, but for the 
reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman