DRN-3770524
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined their claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to their purchase of solar panels.
Mr A and Mrs S are represented in this case by a claims management company (the 
CMC).
Background
In or around August 2015, Mr A and Mrs S were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr A and Mrs S decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In March 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr A and Mrs Ss behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr A and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which he could sell to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Mr A and Mrs S also complains about the systems performance, as they say it has been 
generating less energy than the installer said it would at the point of sale.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr A and Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr A and Mrs S. But he did think that the system was not performing as it 
should, and so on that basis he upheld this complaint.
As Shawbrook did not substantively respond, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr A and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr A and Mrs S could claim 
against Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr A and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
The quote
Shawbrook has provided the pack it says the installer provided to Mr A and Mrs S at the time 
of the sale which is entitled Your Personal Solar Quotation.
Im satisfied that this quote was a central part of the sales presentation. I think this document 
is also relevant when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact and is 
particularly helpful when considering Mr A and Mrs Ss recollections of the sales process.
Benefits and performance of the system
I think that Mr A and Mrs S was told that the system would pay for its cash price over an 18 
year period  not that it would be self-funding from the start. Therefore, I cannot agree that 
the installer misrepresented the panels as being self-funding from the start.
The quote has a table setting out the systems estimated performance over 20 years. Based 
on this, Im satisfied that the installer told Mr A and Mrs S that the system would pay for itself 
by year 18, as the accumulated grand total of income and savings would by that time have 
exceeded the total cost of the system (including the finance costs). If that turns out
not to be true and if Im satisfied that this induced Mr A and Mrs S into entering the contract 
and they suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Mr A and Mrs S have provided their FIT statements. These show that the system generated 
11,941 kWh between 11 September 2015 and 5 December 2021. This works out as an 
average of 1,914 kWh a year.
In a number of places in the quote the installer has estimated that Mr A and Mrs Ss system 
would generate 2,702 kWh of electricity a year. So it can be seen from the FIT statements 
that the system has significantly underperformed compared to the installers estimates from 
the point of sale  it has generated less than 71% of what was estimated.
Im satisfied that the estimated generation and the subsequent FIT payment and electricity 
savings would have induced Mr A and Mrs S into entering the contract. The generation and therefore income are significantly lower than they were promised so they have suffered a 
loss. The adjudicator asked Shawbrook to comment on the underperformance and to 
consider carrying out an inspection of the system to see if a reason for the 
underperformance could be identified and put right. Shawbrook said it would contact the 
installer and then respond, but unfortunately it has not responded to us since. As a result, 
I need to establish a reasonable way forward for this case without the benefit of any further 
evidence.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A and Mrs Ss complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by making 
sure that they dont suffer a financial loss. In my view that would mean that the solar panel 
system should generate roughly what was promised in the quote.
So Shawbrook must:  
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income (through 
the FIT and savings) for Mr A and Mrs S and what the sales paperwork set out as 
being the annual total income savings, and
b) add simple interest to that amount at the rate of 8% a year, and pay the total to Mr A 
and Mrs S (either directly or via the CMC).
To ensure that Mr A and Mrs S dont lose out going forward, Shawbrook must then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume that 
the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of the 
finance agreement,
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the conclusion 
of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction identified in 
paragraph c) above,
e) pay Mr A and Mrs S the difference between the revised amounts calculated in 
paragraph d) above and the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
I also direct Shawbrook to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused, in addition 
to the £200 it has already offered in its final response.
My final decision
My decision is that Im upholding this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022. The CMC may respond on their 
behalf.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman