DRN-4073466
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked his business account whilst he 
was abroad. He would like compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr M is a sole trader. He had a business account with NatWest.
He sold an item as part of his business. The buyer raised a dispute and Mr Ms business 
account was blocked. Mr M told us he was abroad on business when the account was 
blocked, and he wasnt able to use his cards to travel to the meetings he had arranged. He 
wasnt able to buy food whilst he was abroad. He also said he had lost sales as he couldnt 
accept customers orders. Mr M told us he was able to borrow some money from a friend.
NatWest requested information from Mr M regarding the dispute. He provided the 
information that NatWest requested, and the bank unblocked his account after a week.
Mr M complained to NatWest. They said they hadnt done anything wrong when they 
blocked his account following the raising of a dispute.
Mr M complained to our service. One of the adjudicators looked into the complaint. She 
thought NatWest had acted reasonably and in line with their regulatory obligations and the 
terms and conditions of the account when they blocked Mr Ms account. She thought 
NatWest werent obliged to give Mr M notice of their intention to block his account. She also 
said Mr M hadnt provided evidence of the losses he had incurred whilst the account was 
blocked.
Mr M was unhappy with the view- he said he would send evidence of the losses he had 
incurred. He said he had been a customer of the bank for many years, and he was a victim 
of someone abusing the banking system. He said he wanted compensation for his losses.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. 
As NatWest are subject to a number of legal and regulatory requirements it means they have 
to monitor their customers accounts and may need to review an account at any time. While 
that is happening, they may need to block or restrict any payments. I am satisfied NatWest 
were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Mr Ms account. 
This is reflected in NatWests terms and conditions. These say NatWest can block an 
account or card to meet its legal obligations and delay payments if needed to carry out 
further checks. I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following an internal 
process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. 
This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say NatWest was unfair. 
Mr M has said he should have been given notice of NatWests intention to block the account. 
But I disagree. I wouldnt expect a bank to give notice to a customer that they were intending 
to block their account as this may interfere with their processes, so I dont think NatWest 
have done anything wrong here.
Mr M has said he was a victim of someone abusing the banking system. I am sorry that 
Mr M has been put in this situation, but NatWest was obliged to investigate the fraud dispute 
that was raised so I think they acted correctly here.
I appreciate that Mr M found himself in a difficult situation as he was abroad. He has 
explained he had no access to funds as his account was blocked. And although he was able 
to borrow some money from a friend, he has told us he lost two sales during the time his 
account was blocked. The adjudicator asked Mr M to send her information regarding the 
losses Mr M had suffered due to the block on the account. Despite repeated requests Mr M 
hasnt provided this evidence.  
I appreciate that Mr M suffered inconvenience and losses to his business as a result of the 
block on his account. He has said he would provide evidence of the losses for us to 
consider. He hasnt done so but despite this I consider that it would be inappropriate to ask 
NatWest to pay compensation to Mr M for any business losses he may have incurred whilst 
his account was blocked. I say this because as Ive already mentioned NatWest were 
entitled to block Mr Ms account to investigate the fraud dispute. It follows I dont think they 
have done anything wrong here and they acted appropriately in taking the actions they did. I 
cant therefore hold them liable for the losses Mr M incurred.
I know Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, but I am satisfied that NatWest were 
complying with their obligations and acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the account when they blocked Mr Ms account. And I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman