DRN-3057608
The complaint
Mr G says Close Asset Management Limited (CAML) is responsible for delays and mistakes 
when dealing with his request for a particular investment vehicle to be added to its platform. 
He says this caused him a financial loss because he missed an opportunity to buy into the 
fund at a lower price than was possible later.
What happened
Mr G brought his complaint against Close Brothers Asset Management. Since his concerns 
were about services related to his SIPP platform, his case was properly set-up against 
CAML, and to keep things simple that is the entity I will refer to throughout my decision.
The chronology of events was set out by the Investigator in his view of 6 August 2021. Both 
parties appear to be broadly in agreement about these:
15 October 2020  Mr G contacted CAML to request that iShares IV PLC Healthcare 
Innovation exchange-traded fund (Acc) be added to their platform. At first he was told it 
couldnt be added because it wasnt priced in British pounds sterling (GBP). Mr G provided 
CAML with a fund factsheet to support his view that the fund could be added.
19 October 2020  an internal firm request was made to the relevant business area to 
request the Healthcare Innovation ETF be added to the platform.
22 October 2020  Mr G contacted CAML to chase progress. He was informed that a set 
timetable couldnt be given, but that the average for progressing such requests was two 
weeks. He was informed that it had to go through risk/suitability checks before it could 
decide if it the fund was suitable for its portal. And he was provided with a contact number if 
he wished to discuss matters further.
13 November 2020  The fund became available on CAMLs internal systems.
16 November 2020  Mr G made a formal complaint to CAML about delays to progressing 
his request and the lack of any follow-up communications.
18 November 2020  the Healthcare Innovation ETF was added to CAMLs platform for self-
selection. Mr G was informed of such over the phone.
When making his complaint to CAML about what had happened, he said:
I had anticipated there would be volatility in markets and even though the adage 'it's not 
timing the market but the time in the market' is a good rule of thumb and appropriate as a 
long term investment strategy, it's a good feeling to have traded at what might have been 
considered a better price. However, I wanted to take advantage of markets around the time 
of the US Presidential election but with the news of a COVID vaccine, I feel that I have 
missed an opportunity now that there has been a partial upwards correction.
Mr G had a number of concerns about what had happened. For example, hed made similar 
requests in the past and on average these had been actioned in no more than a week. He 
couldnt understand why his request for the Healthcare Innovation ETF be added to the 
platform was taking longer. Although he hadnt been happy with CAMLs response to him on 
22 October 2020, he said hed been willing to allow it more time.
Mr G said what he deplored the most was being left in limbo for so long. He had wanted to 
be kept informed as to progress and given reassurance that his request was being worked 
on. But a month elapsed without communication from CAML.
To put things right Mr G wanted CAML to allow him to purchase 201 shares in the fund at 
what he has calculated as the mean average price during the period it had to process his 
request. Effectively, to make good any difference between his calculated execution date and 
the price of the same shares at todays date. At the time of making his complaint to this 
Service he estimated his opportunity loss as around £200.
CAML rejected Mr Gs complaint. In its final response it summarised its position in the 
following terms:
Close Brothers must perform appropriate due diligence and risk checks to allow them to be 
satisfied of the appropriateness of any fund being available on the platform regardless of any 
eagerness from investors to obtain funds at a certain price. I can also see that Close 
Brothers advised you in communications of the number you could call should you have any 
queries or concerns.
Mr G brought his complaint to this Service for consideration. He also provided additional 
details about what had happened, for example he pointed to the fact that when the fund had 
been added to CAMLs platform it had been incorrectly listed, and so wouldve been easy to 
miss. 
The Investigator considered Mr Gs case and didnt uphold it. He considered that although 
there had been some weaknesses in CAMLs communications with him, it had acted within a 
reasonable timeframe in dealing with his request and that in any event, since he hadnt 
purchased any shares he hadnt lost out financially.
Mr G disagreed. In summarising his position he said:
For all Close Brothers efforts to explain their actions and time required in processing my 
request, there is an inescapable fact that, previously, it has taken them a week but on this 
occasion it was a month - at no stage have they proffered an explanation!! In my mind, 
someone 'dropped the ball' and they have tried to hide the fact behind due diligence and the 
like.
When I was informed that it would take a further couple of weeks, beyond that timeline, I 
would have anticipated an update rather than having to chase them up yet again. It is good 
customer service and a simple courtesy which is the least I expect. Moreover, there were 
mistakes made which have been glossed over as though they have no bearing or 
importance in your deliberations.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Gs 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final 
stage of this Services process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my conclusion.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around services like those performed by CAML for 
Mr G. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control 
its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must be adhered to by regulated firms like CAML. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions CAML operated for its products and services. This 
covered particular matters related to Mr Gs status as a self-directed client. At section F 6.1 it 
says:
We have the right to reject, on reasonable grounds, an application for the purchase of 
Investments in whole or in part. We also reserve the right to refuse an application if we have 
reason to believe that the application may be in contravention of any law or regulation
In considering what may or may not be reasonable grounds for not accepting such a request 
in this case, I reviewed CAMLs security set-up process which had to be followed prior to any 
new funds to be added to its platform.
I understand that CAMLs handling of previous requests from Mr G for additional funds to be 
added to its platform appear to have set his expectation that the Healthcare Innovation ETF 
would be added to the platform within a week or so of him asking for this to happen. But 
while previous experience maybe a guide, each fund and the circumstances are different. 
CAML was obliged to perform proper due diligence. 
The regulator and this Service require robust governance and risk management by firms. We 
would take a dim view of a provider allowing access to funds which were ultimately found to 
be problematic. In such a situation, a firm offering a defence that it had wanted to allow 
customer access to funds quickly but having done so had fallen down on its due diligence 
would be given short shrift.Further, its a business decision for CAML how its SIPP platforms should work, including the 
funds it chooses to offer through it. Presumably it will be aiming for a facility which is useful 
to customers, highly rated by them and provides it with some competitive advantage. But it 
will also want to ensure the platform is effective and efficient to operate. In balancing these 
decisions it will be thinking about its offer to all its clients.
Im also mindful Mr G didnt receive any promises from CAML that the fund he wanted added 
to its platform would be approved or a particular timetable for this to happen.
Overall, I dont think CAML acted unreasonably in how it considered and progressed Mr Gs 
request for his chosen fund to be added to its platform.
Mr G has raised concerns in relation to CAMLs competence and communications. For 
example he was informed at the outset the fund couldnt be added to the platform because it 
wasnt priced in GBP. He was able to provide information to the contrary. While I can see 
this wouldve been frustrating, its a situation that was quickly resolved.
After the discussion on 22 October 2022, Mr G had wanted to be kept informed as to 
progress and given reassurance that his request was being worked on. I think its arguable 
CAMLs communications were lacking here, nevertheless I cant see that he was provided 
with any misleading information about how long matters would take and he was provided 
with a phone contact for any queries he had.
Mr G has also highlighted the fact that when the Healthcare Innovation ETF was added to 
CAMLs platform it contained an inaccurate title listing. He acknowledged it was available, 
but it couldve been missed in searches. CAML have said that the correct SEDOL and ISIN 
numbers were applied to the fund, but agreed the title hadnt been quite right. It has since 
rectified matters.
It appears as though Mr G never proceeded to purchase Healthcare Innovation ETF shares. 
I presume this is because, as he himself stated in his complaint to CAML at the time, he felt 
hed missed out on the opportunity given how events unfolded. His interest appears to have 
been time sensitive, but as Ive already concluded I dont think CAML acted unreasonably in 
how it dealt with his request for the fund to be added to its platform.
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to uphold Mr Gs complaint against Close Asset 
Management Limited. And it follows I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already outlined, m not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman