DRN-4066792
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to him on his 
credit card.
What happened
My understanding is Mr C took out a credit card in February 2014 with an initial credit limit of 
£5,000. Between March 2015 and March 2017 the credit limit was increased four times to 
£13,300.
In July 2020 Barclaycard wrote to some customers, including Mr C, to say theyd perhaps set 
credit limits higher than they should have. For Mr C they felt the limit was right currently, but 
asked him to get in touch if he had any concerns.
Mr C did raise a concern about Barclaycard irresponsibly lending to him  saying this led to a 
number of problems and difficulties managing his finances.
Barclaycard said they didnt think theyd lent irresponsibly, so wouldnt be refunding any 
interest or charges. They did though offer him £75 compensation for setting him a credit limit 
higher than it should be.
Unhappy with this Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so. He 
found Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly to Mr C, and asked them to refund all interest and 
charges applied on a balance above £5,000 since the first credit limit increase in 
March 2015. Our Investigator also said if the refund results in a credit balance for Mr C, then 
they must also pay this plus 8% to the date of settlement. And they said Barclaycard must 
reduce Mr Cs credit limit to £5,000.
Barclaycard agreed to this  and said refunding all interest and charges, plus paying 8% 
interest, came to £4,238.42 which they paid to him on 13 May 2022. They also agreed to 
reduce his credit limit to £5,000.
Ultimately, Mr C doesnt accept Barclaycard have calculated the refund correctly  so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator found Barclaycard hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
as they were required to do when increasing Mr Cs credit limit from £5,000. Mr C and 
Barclaycard accept this  and Ive seen no reason why this would cause an unfair outcome 
for either party. So, Im satisfied Barclaycard have irresponsibly lent to Mr C, his credit limit 
should be reduced to £5,000, lending interest plus charges should be refunded, and 8% 
compensatory interest should be applied.
So, the focus of this decision is whether the amount of the refund has been done correctly. I 
need to make it clear for Mr C our service isnt an actuary service  so I wont be directly 
checking the figures theyve paid. Instead, Ill be looking at whether the methodology theyve 
used is correct.
I think itll help to clarify there are two different things were talking about when we refer to 
interest. The first is lending interest charged by Barclaycard on Mr Cs credit card balance  
the second being 8% compensatory interest.
Barclaycards explanation for when and how theyve calculated the refund is:
All lending interest charged above £5,000 comes to £3,615.22
There is one overlimit fee charged of £12
The total refund is £3,627.22 before compensatory interest is added
8% compensatory interest is added from 26 September 2019 to 13 May 2022 
The 8% compensatory interest comes to £764, of which £611.20 goes to Mr C, and 
£152.80 is payable in tax
In total, Barclaycard refunded Mr C £4,238.42 on 13 May 2022 and theyre satisfied 
thats correct
Mr C says Barclaycard should calculate the 8% interest rate from when Barclaycard were 
found to be at fault  this was March 2015, not September 2019. Although I dont think Mr C 
is disputing the lending interest, I think I need to explain that first, before then moving on to 
the compensatory interest.
In respect of the lending interest charged by Barclaycard all of this that should be refunded 
has been refunded. What I mean by that is our Investigator found the first £5,000 of Mr Cs 
borrowing was fair. So, this means Mr C doesnt get a refund of any lending interest charged 
by Barclaycard on the first £5,000 of his credit card balance. He only gets a refund of lending 
interest and charges Barclaycard applied for anything above a £5,000 balance from 
March 2015 onwards.
Barclaycard have provided evidence of these interest and charges  totalling £3,627.22  in 
their calculations. As I said earlier, our service isnt an actuarial service. We simply look to 
see if matters have been done correctly  and here it looks like they have been.
The second issue to address is when the 8% compensatory interest should apply from. I 
think its helpful to set out here that we award 8% interest when someone has been deprived 
of funds they otherwise would have had  in Mr Cs case, thatll be when his credit card 
balance would have gone into credit.
Mr C has said this should apply from March 2015 when Barclaycard incorrectly increased his 
credit limit. Barclaycard say the 8% compensatory interest only applies from when Mr C 
would have been deprived of the funds. To determine when this happened, theyve looked at 
when the refund of lending interest and charges would have meant Mr C ended up in a credit 
balance on his credit card. Thats because, they say, its at this point Mr C would have been 
deprived of those funds.
What Barclaycard have explained is correct. Although Barclaycard did make an error in 
March 2015 when they increased Mr Cs credit limit, the impact of this initially was only in the 
addition of extra lending interest. That issue has been resolved by the lending interest being 
refunded. So, the next step is to consider when Mr C has had to wrongly pay for something 
in the past. This is tricker in lending cases than if someone had paid money directly out of 
their account  as we need to consider at what point theyve been deprived of those funds.Barclaycard have said this would have made a difference on 26 September 2019  as thats 
when a payment was made by Mr C which would have meant hed have been in credit if the 
lending interest hadnt been applied.
Ive looked at Mr Cs statements  and this does show a payment on that date bringing his 
balance down below the amount of the lending interest refund.
So, Im satisfied Barclaycard have used the correct methodology to determine when the 8% 
interest should be applied.
Ive seen Mr C said hed spoken to a financial adviser, and they said the 8% compensatory 
interest should apply from March 2015. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont agree 
with that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to have 
reduced Mr Cs credit limit to £5,000, refunded him lending interest and charges from 
March 2015, and pay 8% compensatory interest from 26 September 2019.
I understand Barclaycard have already taken these actions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman