DRN-1619161
 
complaint
Mrs S complains she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
background
Mrs S took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2002.  At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy which would have covered her mortgage repayments for up to 24 months at a time if 
she couldnt work due to an accident or sickness. It did not cover unemployment.
Mrs S says the terms and conditions werent explained to her. She says had they been 
explained she wouldnt have bought the policy because she didnt need it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mrs S disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs S doesnt suggest she didnt have a choice about buying the PPI and looking at the 
available documents Im satisfied Mrs S bought the PPI knowing she had a choice. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mrs Ss mortgage application form. Theres a separate 
section for PPI and Mrs S is given a clear choice. She ticked and signed separately to say 
she wanted the cover. She also completed a separate PPI application form where she chose 
the exact cover she wanted. Again, this made it clear the cover was optional. 
Nationwide say Mrs S wouldve then received a policy document, policy schedule and 
welcome letter. Its provided a sample copy of these. I have no reason to think Mrs S didnt 
get these, or that she didnt get similar documents each year at renewal. 
The policy schedule details the insurance, what it covered, the benefit period, the benefit 
amount and how much it cost. I think Mrs S would have had a good understanding of the 
policy shed bought from this information. 
Nationwide didnt give Mrs S a personal recommendation to buy the policy, so it didnt need 
to check it was right for her. But Nationwide did need to make sure Mrs S had enough 
information about the policy to make her own informed decision.
Mrs S say she didnt need the cover because she had savings which she could use if she 
wasnt working. She has also referred to a separate life and critical illness policy she held at the time the PPI was sold. Her representatives have also made reference to a private 
medical insurance policy.
But Nationwide didnt have an obligation to check the PPI was right for her. I am satisfied 
that Mrs S would have  as a very minimum - understood she was buying a policy designed 
to meet her mortgage repayments if she couldnt work due to an accident or sickness. So, it 
was up to Mrs S to decide whether she needed the cover in light of her existing provision.
So, on balance, I dont think Mrs S lost out because of anything Nationwide might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman