DRN-2547170
The complaint
Ms M has complained on behalf of 2, a management company, about the way AXA 
Insurance UK plc dealt with a claim for roof damage under a commercial and residential 
landlord insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Ms M, a director of 2, made a claim to AXA. She said her son had seen 
holes in the roof above her top floor flat and water was coming in through the bedroom 
ceiling. She arranged for an emergency roof repair.
AXA sent an assessor to inspect the damage. The survey was carried out from inside the 
building. AXA said this was because the building was more than two storeys high. Ms M 
thought the assessor could have gone out onto the roof via the skylight. The assessor 
noticed damage in the kitchen as well. She said Ms M should make a separate claim for that. 
The assessor wasnt sure what had caused the damage to the roof.
Ms Ms builder said the roof had been damaged by the impact of something which had made 
a hole in it. AXA was unable to get any more information from the builder.
AXA agreed to accept the claims for internal damage. But it said it didnt think the external 
damage to the roof had been caused by an insured peril such as storm or impact. It thought 
the roof might be suffering from wear and tear.
Following a complaint by Ms M, AXA arranged for another supplier to inspect the roof using 
a camera on a long pole. The result of that inspection was inconclusive. So AXA didnt 
change its decision.
Ms M brought the complaint to this service. She wasnt happy about the quality of the two 
surveys and poor communication on AXAs part. Our investigator assessed the complaint 
but when the matter couldnt be resolved it was passed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the roof had been repaired by the time AXAs assessors visited the property, the only 
description of the damage comes from Ms Ms builder. He reported that one roof tile had 
been broken and several tiles along the row had slipped. He said the cement holding the 
tiles to the ridge had also cracked, making the slippage worse.
Its up to a policyholder in the first instance to prove their claim. That means they have to 
show that damage was caused to their property by something covered by their policy (an 
insured peril). In this case there seem to me to be three insured perils which looked as 
though they might be relevant  storm, impact and accidental damage. Ill consider each of 
them in turn.
As our investigator explained, when considering a storm complaint, we generally take into 
consideration the following questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Although the hole in the roof was discovered in August 2019, its not clear when the damage 
happened. So whilst storms can cause roof tiles to break or slip, its not clear if a storm 
occurred to cause this damage here. But there is also the lack of any evidence from AXAs 
assessors or Ms Ms builder that prevailing storm conditions were actually the main cause of 
the problem. So I dont think AXA acted unfairly in saying that there wasnt a valid claim for 
storm damage.
The policy also covers Impact by any aircraft or other aerial devices, vehicle or any article 
falling from them or by animals. Theres no evidence to suggest that the roof was impacted 
by anything that was covered by the policy. Ms Ms builder thought there had clearly been 
an impact but he couldnt say by what. Because of that, Im not persuaded Ms M has shown 
2 had a valid claim in this respect. 
2 also had accidental damage cover. The policy doesnt define accidental damage. For 
accidental I think the ordinary, everyday meaning is something unforeseen and 
unintentional. The onus is still on the policyholder to show that the damage was most likely 
caused accidentally as opposed to something else such as wear and tear. Im not satisfied 
that 2 has done that.
After obtaining two assessors reports concluding that there was no evidence that the 
external damage was covered by the policy, I dont think it was unreasonable of AXA to 
refuse to carry out further and more expensive investigations. Especially as Ms M had 
completed repairs.
Ms M believes that AXAs first assessor couldnt possibly determine that the water damage 
to the kitchen and bathroom were two separate incidents since she didnt go onto the outside 
of the roof. The assessor told AXA there was one area of leaking in the middle of the roof 
and another to the parapet base flashing on one side of the roof. These leaks were above 
the bedroom and kitchen respectively. She supported her report with photos of the outside 
and inside of the roof. Im not convinced that she needed to go out onto the roof to carry out 
a more detailed investigation even if it had been safe for her to do so. I also havent seen 
any evidence to show that her conclusion was wrong. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for AXA to treat the damage as two separate incidents and claims.
Ms M also complained that the assessor hadnt been given a copy of the policy document. 
I dont think that matters. Ultimately I think all the assessor needed to know was a high level 
summary of the policy cover (storm, impact etc) and she didnt need the whole policy. 
Ms M is also unhappy that the assessor had told her the claim for internal damage would 
only be accepted if the external damage was also covered by the policy. The assessor said 
she just referred in general terms to what would be the case if the claim were accepted. 
Although there clearly was a misunderstanding, Im not sure whose fault it was and it didnt 
end up making any difference since the claims for internal damage were accepted anyway.
Ms M says the second assessor was told by AXA to photograph the wrong part of the roof but by chance did photograph the right area. I agree that AXAs instructions could have been 
clearer but fortunately in the event this didnt make any difference. She also thinks he should 
have given an opinion as to the cause of the damage. All the second assessor said was that 
thered been a patch repair using expanding foam along the ridge line. I dont think based on 
the photos that he could have said more than that with any certainty.
I agree that at times there was some poor communication on AXAs part. But it didnt 
significantly delay the claims. So Im not persuaded that any compensation is due in respect 
of this. Im unable to look at how AXA handled Ms Ms complaint as thats not a regulated 
activity.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 2 to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman