DRN-3934100
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn irresponsibly gave him 
a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr S acquired a used car using a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. The cash price of the car was £6,790 and Mr S paid a deposit of £400 with the 
balance being financed by the credit agreement. Mr S was required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £257.65.
Mr S complained to Moneybarn in October 2021 to say the agreement had been 
unaffordable and that adequate affordability checks werent completed before giving him the 
finance. He also said that when he was struggling to make repayments Moneybarn didnt 
offer him appropriate assistance with his financial difficulties. 
Moneybarn didnt agree it had acted unfairly. It said that it had carried out appropriate 
affordability checks which showed that Mr S could afford the monthly repayments. It said that 
when Mr S reported difficulty repaying it offered a number of different measures to assist 
him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Moneybarn had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before granting the finance to 
Mr S. However, she thought that if Moneybarn had completed more thorough checks it 
would likely have concluded the lending was affordable to Mr S. She didnt think Moneybarn 
had acted unfairly when Mr S asked for assistance with his payment difficulties. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting credit, Moneybarn were required to take steps to ensure the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr S. There isnt a set list of checks that had to be completed, 
but the relevant rules required Moneybarn to complete proportionate affordability checks. 
What is considered proportionate will vary in each case as there isnt a one-size-fits-all 
approach to assessing affordability. In deciding what is proportionate, Moneybarn needed to 
take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the total repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the total charge for credit and Mr S individual circumstances. 
The total repayable was around £15,500 over a five year term. This was a relatively 
significant financial commitment and therefore my starting point is that any proportionate 
affordability check ought to have been relatively thorough. 
Moneybarn says it completed a credit check to understand Mr S current financial 
commitments and also reviewed copies of his recent payslips to get assurances about his 
employment and level of income. Moneybarn has provided us with copies of those payslips 
but has been unable to show us the data it gathered from the credit check, although it did 
acknowledge it saw Mr S had defaulted on a credit commitment four months prior to this 
application.
Given the size of the borrowing and the fact that Moneybarn could see Mr S had defaulted 
on another credit facility recently, I dont think its affordability checks were reasonable or 
proportionate. I think it should have completed a more thorough assessment of Mr S 
circumstances before agreeing to lend to him. I think a proportionate affordability 
assessment ought to have included a more detailed verification of Mr S committed 
expenditure. 
It's not clear exactly what information Moneybarn would have reviewed if it had tried to verify 
Mr S expenditure. In the absence of any check Moneybarn completed, Ive relied on copies 
of Mr S bank statements from the months leading up to the lending decision. Im not 
suggesting Moneybarn were required to check bank statements, but I think these give a 
good indication of what information Moneybarn would likely have discovered if it had 
completed more thorough checks. 
The statements show that Mr S regular committed expenditure for things such as rent, bills 
and credit commitments were around £860 per month. This figure doesnt include food, 
petrol or other household expenditure. His income appeared to be around £1,400 according 
to the payslips he provided to Moneybarn and his bank statements support this too. 
After taking into account what Mr S appeared to be regularly spending on other living costs it 
seems he still had sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly payment towards the 
Moneybarn agreement and have funds left over for any unforeseen emergency expenses or 
modest increases in outgoings. I therefore think that proportionate affordability checks would 
mostly likely have shown the agreement was affordable to Mr S. This means I dont think 
Moneybarn made an unfair lending decision when it gave Mr S the conditional sale 
agreement. 
Mr S also says that Moneybarn didnt treat him fairly when he was struggling to make some 
of the repayments. From what Ive seen Mr S periodically got in touch with Moneybarn to say 
hed be unable to make a monthly payment. Each time this happened I can see that 
Moneybarn offered him various forbearance measures to assist him. These included offering 
payment plans, amending the date of payments and it waived charges that were applied for 
late payment. I havent seen anything to suggest Moneybarn acted unfairly when Mr S asked 
for assistance with his payments.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman