DRN-1720176
 
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs M took out a store card in November 1996. A few months later in February 1997, Mrs M 
also took out a PPI policy for the card during a phone call. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA have said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been able to provide a 
recording of the phone call or any notes taken at the time  this isnt surprising considering 
the sale took place many years ago. So I dont know for sure how PPI was presented to     
Mrs M or what was said.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs M has told us. But I also have to consider that 
because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over time. Ive also taken into 
account what we know about how AXA sold these policies around this time and everything 
weve seen in the past. In addition, I've needed to also consider that Mrs M would have 
taken the policy separately a few months after she had opened the card account. 
I think, on balance, its likely AXA would have made it clear that the PPI was optional and  
 Mrs M would have been asked for her consent to the cover during the call. Ive not seen 
enough to conclude otherwise.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs M. So it didnt have to take steps to make sure 
the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Mrs M enough information about the policy 
to decide if she wanted it or not.
Its likely the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been 
 including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I have in front of me it looks like it could still have been useful to her. And I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it. 
Mrs M has told our service she wouldn't have had sick pay or savings at the time of sale and 
would have relied on statutory sick pay. So, with what I do know of her circumstances at the 
time, I think on balance Mrs M couldve found this policy useful should she have become 
unable to work or unemployed. The PPI policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding 
monthly balance for up to 12 months for unemployment, accident or sickness. Theres 
nothing to show me Mrs M couldnt afford the policy. And if she no longer wanted it he 
couldve cancelled it at any time.
I also dont think Mrs M would have been affected by any of the main things that mightve 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition of 
which she was already aware.
So I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs M from buying the PPI. Ive taken 
into account all Mrs Ms comments but these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman