DRN-2531977
The complaint
Mr D complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited approved a hire purchase agreement 
for him which he couldnt afford.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr D acquired a used a car paid for using a hire purchase agreement from 
Specialist Motor. The cash price of the car was £7,225 which was to be repaid over 61 
months. The monthly repayments were around £207, except for the first payment which was 
£250 and the final repayment which was around £400. The total amount repayable was 
around £12,800.
Mr D chose voluntary terminate the agreement when he was halfway through the agreement 
in late 2019. He says this was because hed always struggled to make the repayments under 
the agreement and his liability would end on termination. He complained to Specialist Motor 
to say that it should never have granted the finance to him.
Mr D said that at the time of applying for the agreement, he was in a debt management plan, 
was borrowing frequently from payday lenders and had a very poor credit history. He didnt 
think Specialist Motor had done enough to assess his ability to repay the borrowing. He says 
if they had done, they would have seen he could afford to pay it back.
Specialist Motor didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that it carried out the relevant 
creditworthiness assessment and that this showed Mr D had enough disposable income to 
afford the borrowing. It said Mr D didnt raise any affordability concerns until after the 
agreement was terminated which was 31 months after the point of sale.
I sent Mr D and Specialist Motor my provisional decision on 11 January 2021. I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. An extract of my provision decision follows:
Did Specialist Motor complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Specialist Motor were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needed to be concerned with whether Mr D could sustainably afford the borrowing 
(considering his specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. 
The latter, is the risk posed to Specialist Motor as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount repayable was around £12,800, repayable over 61 months. The interest 
rate was 25.39%. This was therefore a relatively long term and costly commitment and my 
starting point is that any reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to 
have been quite thorough.
Specialist Motor have provided us with details of the checks it carried out prior to lending to 
Mr D. It said that Mr D declared he was a home owner earning around £2,150 per month. It 
said it carried out a credit check to understand what Mr Ds current credit commitments were 
and to see how he was managing them.
I can see that Specialist Motor attempted to verify his income using credit reference agency 
data which it said showed that Mr D hadnt overestimated what he was earning. It seems 
Mr D also provided it with payslips which confirmed his declared income to be accurate. So 
I think Specialist Motor did enough to establish what income Mr D was receiving.
Specialist Motor says it estimated Mr Ds non-discretionary living expenses as 60% of his 
declared income. It said this figure was £1,290. Im aware the regulator is of the view that 
estimating non-discretionary expenditure is acceptable in certain circumstances and Ive had 
this in mind when thinking about whether Specialist Motor made a fair lending decision.
From the information it gathered through a credit check, Specialist Motor said that Mr Ds 
credit commitments were £652.90 per month. Therefore, it said that Mr D had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the repayments of around £207 per month under its hire 
purchase agreement. I can see that the results of the credit check show Mr Ds credit 
commitments, which included the total amounts borrowed, his monthly repayments and any 
applicable credit limits as well as his repayment history.
Overall, I think Specialist Motor completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
thinking about the amount of information and supporting evidence it gathered to assess 
Mr Ds creditworthiness. Ive therefore gone onto consider whether I think it made a fair 
decision in lending to Mr D.
Did Specialist Motor make a fair lending decision?
While I think Specialist Motor gathered enough information about Mr Ds circumstances. 
I have significant concerns about how it interpreted this information. Im also surprised that it 
considered it showed the lending was affordable and sustainable.
Using Specialist Motors own calculations, Mr D was left with just 23 pence in disposable 
income each month, after taking into account the payments towards the hire purchase 
agreement. How Specialist Motor came to the conclusion that this indicated a sustainable 
and affordable arrangement is baffling. 23 pence every month afforded Mr D no cushion for 
any unexpected costs or even the slightest fluctuations in every day spending for essentials.
Not withstanding this, it seems that Specialist Motor didnt take into account all of Mr Ds 
regular credit commitments or what the information was telling them. From the data 
Specialist Motor has provided I note that Mr D was at the time over his limit on two of his 
credit accounts. So, Im not persuaded that Specialist Motor was correct when it said he was 
managing his debts well.Further, there were four accounts with active balances that Specialist Motor had recorded 
nothing next to the regular monthly repayment. So, it was clear Mr Ds credit commitments 
were likely to be much higher than the figure it had used. Therefore, Mr D had no disposable 
income at all and was very likely already over committed with credit.
Specialist Motor also says there were accounts which had repayment recorded against them 
but it didnt include these figures as the accounts were marked as settled. But it seems to me 
it was clear that these account still had balances owing that Mr D was repaying. 
Specialist Motor appears to have known that too given its said this was a reason it thought 
Mr D was managing his debts well. Im not therefore persuaded it thought thoroughly enough 
about what Mr Ds credit commitments were.
Overall, I dont think Specialist Motor took appropriate consideration of the information it had 
gathered about Mr Ds financial circumstances. Clearly Mr D had struggled with debt in the 
past which was evidenced from the defaults around two years prior. But these debts were 
largely still to be repaid and Specialist Motors own calculations showed the hire purchase 
agreement was very likely to be unsustainable even in the short term.
I note that based on the figures Specialist Motor used, Mr D wouldnt have enough income to 
cover the initial larger payment, nor the larger final payment. Each of these payments 
werent significantly higher than the normal monthly repayment and just further demonstrates 
how much Mr D would struggle maintaining these payments.
Given all of the above, I dont think Specialist Motor made a fair lending decision and it 
shouldnt have approved the hire purchase agreement.
For completeness, Specialist Motor has said that Mr D made all but two payments on time in 
the 31 months he had the agreement and never made a complaint about financial difficulty 
or affordability until after it ended. Just because payments have been made largely on time, 
I dont think this demonstrates it was affordable. Clearly Mr D had a number of commitments 
he needed to meet each month and it seems he needed a car in order to work. It isnt 
surprising that Mr D might have chosen to prioritise the repayment of this particular debt over 
others that he might have had.
Specialist Motor needed to ensure Mr D could afford to sustainably repay the borrowing 
without causing him financial difficulty or the need to borrow further. I think it had sufficient 
information during the application process to realise Mr D was not in a position to sustainably 
repay this agreement and therefore shouldnt have granted the borrowing.
Putting things right
As I think Specialist Motor shouldnt have lent to Mr D, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for it to now refund everything he has paid towards the agreement, minus a deduction for 
any fair use of the car he had during that time.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage might be. But in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest and charges applied to the 
agreement, the amount of mileage Mr D covered while in possession of the car and what 
reasonable costs he would likely have incurred instead if hed never entered into this 
agreement. Having done so, I think an amount of £120 per month for each month Mr D had 
use of the car is fair and reasonable. Mr D had the car for 31 months so I think the amount 
Specialist Motor can retain is a total of £3,720.Anything Mr D paid in excess of £120 per month should be treated as an overpayment and 
be refunded to him. Specialist Motor should also add 8% simple interest per year to each 
overpayment from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Lastly, as Mr D should never have been allowed to enter into this finance agreement it isnt 
fair for Specialist Motor to record any adverse information in relation to it on Mr Ds credit file.
Mr D accepted my provisional decision, but Specialist Motor didnt. In summary, it said:
  An amount for unexpected or fluctuating costs was included in its calculation for 
Mr Ds living expenses. This means there was no need to consider further 
unexpected costs on top of the £207 figure it calculated as his disposable income.
  For all accounts reporting on Mr Ds credit file that didnt have a monthly repayment 
recorded against it, Specialist Motor used a figure of 5% of the total balance to 
calculate what a reasonable monthly commitment might be. 
  It didnt include Mr Ds mortgage payments within his credit commitments as this 
was included in his living expenses. 
  Mr D had a joint mortgage and a second financial association on his credit file 
meaning he was likely sharing financial responsibility for some of his credit 
commitments. Specialist Motor assumed he had full responsibility for all debts when 
calculating affordability, but his outgoings are likely to have been less than this. 
  Mr D being over the limit of a card wouldnt have been a cause for concern as it was 
a small limit and the account was only recently opened. 
  Mr D covered around 24,000 miles in the car in the 31 months he was in possession 
of it. This demonstrates he had more than fair usage of the car and asking him to 
pay only £120 per month isnt reasonable. 
  The cash price of the car being £7,225 with monthly repayments of £207 over 61 
months isnt a relatively long term or costly commitment, taking into account Mr Ds 
income and credit profile. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, and 
for broadly the same reasons. Ill address the additional points Specialist Motor has raised 
and explain why these dont change the outcome Ive reached. 
Specialist Motor has said that given the cash price of the car and the monthly repayments 
this wasnt a long term or costly arrangement. But I disagree. The total repayable was almost 
£13,000. Interest (being the cost of borrowing) accounted for over 40% of what Mr D was 
required to repay. 
Specialist Motor have provided a detailed breakdown of how it calculated Mr Ds credit 
commitments based on the information it obtained from the credit reference agency. 
However, despite the calculations it used, Im not persuaded it adequately considered the 
overall picture of Mr Ds financial circumstances.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, Specialist Motors calculation showed Mr D had 
around 23 pence in disposable income each month. In calculating Mr Ds monthly credit 
commitments, I note it did so on Mr Ds current balances. This included several credit cards 
and mail order accounts. However, with some of these accounts Mr D hadnt used up all of 
his available credit limits. This means had he spent more on these accounts, he wouldnt be 
able to afford to pay back all of his credit commitment.In calculating credit commitments Specialist Motor ought to have taken into consideration 
Mr Ds overall exposure and availability of credit, not just his current balances. It needed to 
ensure he could sustainably repay all of his existing credit commitments should he borrow 
the maximum available to him.
Further, Mr Ds recent credit history indicated a number of defaulted accounts, that hed 
taken out four new credit commitments in the previous three months and that hed had to 
enter into payment arrangements with a number of creditors, including his mortgage 
provider. Hed also gone over his limit on some of his revolving credit facilities. While 
Specialist Motor have said this wouldnt have caused them any concern, I think taking 
everything together, it painted a clear picture that Mr D was struggling with his existing credit 
commitments already. 
I think given the information Specialist Motor had gathered about his circumstances, it ought 
to have been clear Mr D couldnt afford to sustainably repay the borrowing. For that reason 
I dont think Specialist Motor ought to have lent to Mr D. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Refund all payments Mr D has made towards the hire purchase agreement, except 
for £120 per month he was in possession of the car.
Pay Mr D 8% simple interest per year on each amount he paid in excess of £120 per 
month, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in relation to this hire 
purchase agreement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman