DRN-2023098
The complaint
Miss E complains that Equifax Limited failed to comply with an erasure request she raised. 
Miss E also complains that Equifax has reported details of a debt that isnt hers. 
What happened
In May 2019 Miss E contacted Equifax about a defaulted credit card debt she found on her 
credit file. Miss E asked Equifax to remove it but it refused. Miss E complained and said that 
the debt shouldnt show on her credit file and that she was unaware of any arrangement for 
the account to be sold on to a third party. 
Equifax responded on 30 May 2019 but didnt agree any errors had been made. Equifax said 
it had contacted the original lender about the credit card which had confirmed the debt had 
been sold. The original lender said Miss E needed to get in touch with the new account 
owner to discuss it. Equifax explained that it was only responsible for reporting information 
provided by creditors and that the data owner was the party that needed to amend the 
record if it was wrong. Contact details for the new debt owner were provided to Miss E. 
In July 2019 Miss E contacted Equifax and made an erasure request. Miss E explained that 
several entries on her credit file incorrectly used a shortened version of her name. Miss E 
said that, under the rules set out in the Data Protection Act, Equifax had to remove all data 
entries that dont reflect her full name. 
Equifax contacted the businesses Miss E highlighted to check whether the information being 
reported was correct. All the businesses responded to Equifax and confirmed that the 
information being reported in relation to Miss E, including the format of her name, was 
accurate. None of the businesses contacted agreed to remove or amend the entries Miss E 
highlighted. 
Miss E referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
that Equifax had dealt with Miss Es complaint fairly and its advice to contact the businesses 
reporting the information was reasonable. The investigator also said that Equifax had taken 
steps to remove the default from the entry Miss E complained about in May 2019. 
Miss E asked to appeal as she wasnt persuaded Equifax had contacted the businesses as it 
claimed. In addition, Miss E said that Equifax had failed to act in line with the Data Protection 
Act 2018. As Miss E asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E has sent in detailed submissions setting out her concerns and why she feels Equifax 
has failed to comply with the rules. Id like to thank Miss E for the level of detail shes 
included. Ive considered all the points she has made as well as all the available information 
and evidence relating to this case. If I havent specifically referred to the individual points 
Miss E has made it isnt because I havent considered them. My decision will focus on what I 
feel are the key issues of Miss Es complaint. I hope Miss E doesnt take that as a 
discourtesy, my approach reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Miss E first raised concerns with Equifax about a credit card debt in May 2019. Miss E said 
the debt wasnt hers and the details were incorrect. In her email to our investigator dated 
7 April 2020 Miss E confirmed she did have a credit card with the lender in question. In the 
same email, Miss E explained that another business had added an entry on her credit file for 
a credit card. 
Equifax has provided evidence to show that when Miss E raised concerns about this entry it 
contacted the lender. The lender told Equifax that the account was closed and that Miss E 
should contact the new owner to amend its records. Equifax has since taken steps to 
remove the original lenders entry from Miss Es credit file, so only one remains. 
I understand Miss Es concerns that the original lender sold the debt to another business 
without her involvement. But thats not something Equifax was involved in and Miss E will 
need to address any concerns she has about the process that was followed to the other 
businesses involved. Im satisfied Equifax has dealt with this part of Miss Es complaint fairly 
so Im not telling it to do anything else. 
Miss E complains that Equifax has breached sections of the Data Protection Act. As the 
investigator has already said, it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say 
whether the Data Protection Act has been breached. Our role is to look at complaints and 
attempt to resolve them on a fair and reasonable basis. So, whilst I have taken note of the 
rules surrounding data protection, I will make my decision based on what I feel is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand Miss E doesnt believe that Equifax contacted the businesses involved. 
However, Equifax has sent copied of the correspondence between it and the businesses 
Miss E has highlighted. The evidence shows that Equifax did contact the businesses as it 
claims and that, in all cases, they responded to say the entries could not be amended or 
deleted. 
Equifax has explained to Miss E that it is only responsible for reporting the information 
provided by other businesses. It says the businesses that have registered information on 
Miss Es credit file are responsible for the details included. Equifax has referred Miss E back 
to those businesses to request that her name is corrected. I agree with Equifax, it cant 
amend or delete the information being reported. Only the businesses that made the entries 
and reported information on Miss Es credit file can change how her name appears. That 
means Miss E needs to contact the lenders involved directly to ask them to amend or 
remove the entries from her credit file. I think Equifaxs decision to refer Miss E back to the 
businesses reporting the information was reasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss E but I havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint. Equifax 
is responsible for reporting the data provided by businesses, it cant change or delete the 
information that has been reported without permission. Only the businesses that have made 
the entries can do that. 
Equifax has confirmed that the credit card account Miss E originally complained about in 
May 2019 has now been deleted from her credit file and that the new debt owners entry has 
taken its place. For the reasons Ive given above, Im not telling Equifax to amend Miss Es credit file. Im 
satisfied that Equifax has dealt with Miss Es complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman