DRN-2642491
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Prestige Finance Limited didnt tell them about additional
interest and fees that were due on their secured loan.
What happened
In 2000, Mr and Mrs M took out a secured loan. The loan was transferred to Prestige. Mr
and Mrs M experienced some financial difficulty due to job losses and ill health. They agreed
a payment arrangement to clear the arrears. And in July 2017 they used Mr Ms pension
lump sum to repay the full arrears.
In June 2020 Prestige wrote to Mr and Mrs M to say that there would be a predicted
balance of more than £9,000 at the end of term (additional balance). Mr and Mrs M could 
increase their payments to over £1,200 from their current payment of £617 to repay the loan 
during the term, which ended in 2021. Or they could repay a lump sum of around £8,500.
Mr and Mrs M complain that they werent told about the additional balance and it caused 
them a great deal of distress when Prestige wrote to them in 2020.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that Prestige didnt set
out clearly and fairly that there would be an additional balance due at the end of the term.
She considered if it had then Mr and Mrs M would have continued to pay an additional £80 a
month on top of the monthly repayment. The investigator said that Prestige should rework
the loan as if Mr and Mrs M had continued to pay an additional £80 a month from July 2017.
If there was a balance remaining, Prestige should agree an interest free loan over a mutually
acceptable term.
Both Prestige and Mr and Mrs M accepted what the investigator said. But Prestige has
been unable to put in place the agreed settlement. Mr and Mrs M also add that Prestige has
recorded incorrect information on their credit file.  
I issued a provisional decision and invited both sides to give me any more comments or 
evidence if they wished. My provisional findings  which form part of this final decision  
were:
It isnt in dispute that Prestige has not treated Mr and Mrs M fairly. I am satisfied that they
were led to believe, firstly, that the £80 a month additional payment was sufficient to repay
the entire balance and secondly, that the lump sum payment was enough to clear the whole
arrears balance.
Prestige had an obligation to provide Mr and Mrs M with clear, fair and not misleading
information. Looking at all of the information it gave Mr and Mrs M I cant see that it set out in
a clear and fair way that there was an additional balance made up of fees and interest to be
repaid. It was unfair to only tell Mr and Mrs M about the balance in June 2020 when the term
was due to end in August 2021, when their options were limited and the additional balance
had grown because of the interest that was applied.
I need to decide what it is likely that Mr and Mrs M would have done had they been given
clear, fair and not misleading information all along.
Mr and Mrs Ms financial difficulties were caused by circumstances outside their control. But
they acted sensibly by agreeing a payment plan, which they understood would clear the
arrears by the end of the term. They also used part of Mr Ms pension to clear the arrears in
full. So I am satisfied that if Prestige had given them clear information, they would have
taken steps to clear the additional balance either through a lump sum payment, a payment
arrangement or a combination of the two.
Due to the passage of time Mr and Mrs M arent able to provide exact details of how much
the lump sum Mr M received was. But they say it was more than the amount they used to
clear the arrears. They also recognised that the debt to Prestige is a priority as it is secured
against their home. It seems likely that they would have made a lump sum payment to
reduce some of the additional balance, had they been told about it in 2017.
I also consider it likely that from April 2014 they would have agreed a payment arrangement
to clear any remaining balance by the end of the term alongside the other arrears. If they
had done so they would now be in a position where the additional balance had been cleared
or a very small balance remaining. I also note that Prestige seem unable to implement the
investigators recommendation.
In the individual circumstances of this complaint I consider it would be fair for Prestige to
write off the full amount of the additional balance. Its clear that Mr and Mrs M suffered a
significant amount of upset when Prestige wrote to them. I would usually make an award to
reflect that. But as they have saved money by not repaying the additional balance, I dont
consider it would be fair to pay them additional compensation.
Prestige has an obligation to record true and accurate information on Mr and Mrs Ms credit
file. I dont consider it is a fair reflection to record that the additional balance was due. I say
that as I have found that Mr and Mrs M would have taken steps to address that balance
much earlier and it is likely that the full amount of that debt or almost all of it would have
been repaid by now. So I think the fairest thing to do would be to remove the additional
balance from the amount owing on their credit file.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional findings. Prestige didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I see no reason to change the findings I reached in my 
provisional decision:
Prestige hadnt treated Mr and Mrs M fairly by not telling them that there was an 
additional balance made up of fees and interest.
If Prestige had told Mr and Mrs M about that balance it is likely they would have made an 
arrangement to clear the full additional balance by the end of term  as they had in 
respect of the arrears balance they knew about. I also consider it likely that Mr and Mrs 
M would have used some of Mr Ms pension lump sum to clear some or all of the 
additional balance  as they had some remaining once the arrears balance had been 
repaid.
Putting things rightIf Prestige had given Mr and Mrs M accurate information, and they had entered into a 
payment arrangement and made a full or partial lump sum payment towards the 
additional balance (as I have found likely), they would either have paid off the additional 
balance in full or a only a small amount would remain. In view of the difficulty Prestige 
has had putting in place the investigators recommendation (which it had accepted) and 
as there is now only a very short time left of the loan term, I consider it would be fair in 
the circumstances of this case for Prestige to write off the additional balance in full.
Although Mr and Mrs M have suffered distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened  they have saved money by not repaying the additional balance. And the 
amount of those savings is more than I would have awarded in compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience.
It wasnt fair to record the full amount of the additional balance on Mr and Mrs Ms credit 
file, as I have found they would have taken steps to address it had they been made 
aware of it. So Prestige should remove that amount from Mr and Mrs Ms credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Prestige Finance Limited should:
Write off the full amount of the additional balance, which stood at £8,550.51 at 5 June
2020.
Remove any record of the amount of the additional balance from Mr and Mrs Ms credit
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman