DRN-4103422
The complaint
Mr R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) reduced his credit 
limit without any warning, didnt help him with his financial difficulties and didnt make 
reasonable adjustments for him in the way they communicated.
What happened
Mr R has two credit cards issued by American Express. He has difficulties with his speech 
sometimes which means he doesnt use the phone to communicate. Mr R has told us about 
a health diagnosis in November 2019. He says he was off work for several months and he 
got into debt. He says the pandemic put even more strain on his household finances and 
made matters worse. In his own words, he got into a debt hole. 
Mr R paid almost twice the minimum payment towards the outstanding balance on one of his 
cards in the run up to Christmas 2020  he says he did so to keep interest low and to ensure 
that he had available credit. He says American Express reduced his credit limit after hed 
done so without any warning and with immediate effect. Mr R says American Express 
actions left him with £5 worth of available credit. He says he didnt even have money to buy 
food which meant he had to beg and borrow for food from his family. He says this made him 
realise he wasnt getting out of his debt hole which in turn prompted him to contact American 
Express.
Mr R contacted American Express using their online chat. He said he couldnt use phones 
because of the problems he had with his speech and asked for help with the financial 
difficulties he was in. He says the member of staff he spoke to on the chat said he couldnt 
help and gave him an email address to contact instead. Mr R says he emailed the address 
hed been given but he got no response. Mr R says he received a form in the post from 
American Express to appoint a third party to help with his account, but without any 
explanation as to why the form was sent. He says he didnt want to appoint a third party to 
help him as he was extremely embarrassed about being in so much debt and he didnt want 
to talk to his family and friends about this. Mr R says he chased American Express a couple 
of times and used their online chat again  and he was given the same email address again. 
He says American Express didnt reply when he emailed them a second time either.
Mr R says that instead of helping him, American Express sent him a letter in June 2021 
saying that they were going to increase the interest rate he was paying on one of his cards 
by over 4%. He says he assumed American Express would increase the interest rate for his 
other account too. So, he asked American Express to close both of his accounts  the letter 
he received in June 2021 said he could ask American Express to close his account if he 
didnt want his interest rate to go up  and he made a repayment proposal that reflected the 
fact that he was in financial difficulties.
Mr R says American Express didnt close his accounts as hed asked  they went ahead and 
increased the interest rate he was paying on one of his cards by over 4% instead  and they 
didnt respond to his repayment proposal either. So, he complained about those things, and 
about the fact that American Express hadnt helped him when he said he was unhappy that 
his credit limit had been reduced without any warning, and the consequences this had.
American Express investigated Mr Rs complaints but they didnt uphold them. American 
Express said that they were entitled to reduce his credit limit without any warning under their 
terms and conditions. American Express also said that they had been trying to work out the 
best way of contacting him having received his message explaining why he wasnt able to 
use a phone. American Express said that Mr R could get in contact using their online chat or 
he could authorise a third party to discuss his account with American Express. As a gesture 
of goodwill, American Express said that they were happy to credit the most recent interest 
charge to his account. Mr R was unhappy with American Expresss response and 
complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint. He upheld Mr Rs complaint saying 
that American Express hadnt acted fairly when Mr R asked for his accounts to be closed in 
June 2021. So, they recommended that American Express reverse the interest rate increase 
they applied to Mr Rs account and agree a repayment plan with him. In addition, they 
recommended that American Express pay Mr R £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Our investigator didnt think American Express had acted 
unreasonably when they had reduced his credit limit with immediate effect  as this meant 
Mr R didnt end up going over his new limit  and that they hadnt acted unreasonably in the 
way theyd communicated as it was important they did so in a secure manner. 
Mr R wasnt happy with what our investigator recommended. He said that when American 
Express reduced his credit limit without any warning thats when his real problems had 
begun. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into his 
complaint and have asked both sides for additional information.
Following my involvement, American Express has accepted that they made a number of 
errors in this case, and that they didnt help or support Mr R as they should have done. First, 
American Express has accepted that they gave Mr R conflicting information when he 
originally asked for help  he shouldnt have been told he had to email to get help. Secondly, 
American Express has accepted that they didnt get back to Mr R when he emailed as hed 
been told he had to and that their support was insufficient. Thirdly, American Express has 
accepted that the team that was asked for advice on the best way to contact Mr R never got 
back with this advice, so nothing was done. And finally, American Express has accepted that 
they didnt close Mr Rs accounts in June 2021 when he gave clear instructions to do so.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Mr R has said he suspects American Express are not complying with their obligations under 
the Equality Act. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint 
 given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable. If Mr R wants a decision that American Express has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court. American Express does, however, appear to now 
accept that it didnt make the adjustments it should have done given the mistakes its 
accepted it made. Ill expand on that.
Mr R says things started going wrong for him when American Express reduced his credit 
limit without any warning in the run up to Christmas 2020. He says he realised at that point that he was in a debt hole. So, he contacted American Express for help.
American Express have admitted to me that they have let Mr R down on a number of 
occasions. They admit to making errors all through this time and they did not support him or 
help him as they should have done. They gave him conflicting information as they told him to 
email them and provided them with the email address he used. And when he did this, his 
emails were not responded to despite them receiving the emails. They have later said he 
could have used the chat facility. But when he used the chat facility after he was given the 
email address, he was told to phone them despite American Express being told of his 
disability multiple times. He was not routed to the correct chat agent to discuss his financial 
difficulty. 
I can understand why Mr R says American Express didnt make reasonable adjustments in 
light of this in particular. American Express have also admitted that staff left notes on their 
system to say that they had escalated the issue about the communications to team leaders 
and seniors, but there is no outcome of what these senior staff members decided  if 
anything. This left Mr R needing to chase them up when it appeared his emails were being 
ignored, which would have inconvenienced him and would have been distressing, especially 
given his disability and his financial difficulty. They also accept they didnt act upon Mr Rs 
request to close both of his accounts and therefore avoid the interest rate increase. They 
accept that they have failed Mr R, and this was not a good experience for him. Its 
disappointing that American Express hadnt accepted these errors at the time, as this may 
have enabled Mr R to have support at a time when he was financially vulnerable and trying 
to take control of his finances, although its right they accept these errors now. 
But these errors had a large impact on Mr R at the time. Not only did he have no money for 
Christmas to eat and he had to get help from other people when his credit limit was reduced 
immediately (without notice as the terms and conditions say he would get), but he felt 
helpless on more than one occasion due to American Express actions. I say this because 
his disability was ignored by the chat agents directing him to the phone, despite him telling 
American Express about this on a number of occasions. Mr R opened up about his financial 
difficulties to them  which couldnt have been an easy thing to do. He felt consumed by the 
debt he was in and he asked for help and he was often not provided with a reply despite 
American Express receiving his emails and his request to close his accounts wasnt acted 
upon. 
Based on the several attempts Mr R made to resolve his various issues, I would have 
expected American Express to make it much easier for Mr R to be able to communicate with 
them in an appropriate way. American Express have told me that they have implemented a 
new bespoke process from early 2022, where they can email appropriate personal 
responses. They have also said that if Mr R is still in financial difficulties and needs financial 
support, they can have a conversation (via chat), carry out an income assessment and look 
to support him with any appropriate support and payment options that apply moving forward. 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. American Express appears 
to have accepted, given the errors it has admitted, that it didnt make reasonable 
adjustments for Mr R at a time when he was financially vulnerable, and despite Mr R 
informing American Express of his disability. American Express have already refunded a 
months worth of interest for Mr R. But Im not persuaded that this is a sufficient resolution of 
the complaint based on the multiple errors Ive documented above. So Im persuaded it 
would be reasonable for American Express to contact Mr R via email, based on the new 
process they have put in place, to discuss affordable ways he can make his repayments. 
This may include the Financial Relief Programme, which Mr R has mentioned he received an 
email about, but this ultimately would be a decision for American Express and Mr R to agree 
to. They should be clear how the different options may affect Mr Rs credit file  if at all, so he can make an informed decision on what would be the most appropriate choice for 
himself.
American Express should rework both of Mr Rs accounts to reflect that the interest rate 
should not have been increased after he told them to close his accounts in June 2021. And 
they should refund the proportion of interest they charged to his account when they 
increased the interest rate on the account. 
Ive then considered what Mr R should be paid for distress and inconvenience for the failings 
Ive already documented. Im satisfied that American Express should pay Mr R £600 for 
distress and inconvenience. Im persuaded that this recognises the impact of the multiple 
errors they have made and the impact these errors would reasonably have on Mr R, 
especially given his disability, the circumstances hes detailed around Christmas 2020 and 
given his individual personal circumstances at the time. Mr Rs communication appeared to 
be often ignored, despite some of his requests being escalated to senior staff (although he 
wasnt aware of this), but not acted upon, lasting several months until Mr R complained in 
June 2021. But then American Express did not act upon his instructions and they charged 
him higher interest on at least one of his accounts. So Im satisfied that £600 compensation 
would help put things right for Mr R.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. American Express did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr R said that in 
principle he would agree to the provisional decision, but he wanted me to consider what 
outcome American Express would have come to had they engaged with him properly when 
he told them about his financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about what outcome American Express would have 
come to if they engaged with him properly when he told them about his financial difficulty. 
This is something which I had considered, but ultimately it would be impossible to know what 
outcome would have been reached  if any. 
I say this because Ive looked at the information Mr R provided American Express on 11 
January 2021 regarding his income and outgoings. This showed he had disposable income 
of £25.50. So it could appear that his current repayments at the time were affordable. But I 
do recognise this wasnt a high amount of disposable income and this could change based 
on his circumstances. The outgoings also didnt include items such as leisure costs or 
clothing. In addition, Im conscious of the ongoing nature of the pandemic and lockdowns at 
the time could have resulted in costs changing. 
The Financial Relief Programme came into force on 4 August 2021, several months after Mr 
R had informed them of his financial difficulty, so its unlikely this would have been offered to 
him. And any arrangement which American Express put forward at the time Mr R first 
contacted them may have had an impact on Mr Rs credit file. So its not clear if Mr R would 
have agreed to an arrangement at the time which may have had an impact on his credit file. 
So its possible that American Express could have offered Mr R assistance, its just not clear 
what assistance they would have offered him or what Mr R wouldve agreed to. 
That is why I said the following in my provisional decision So Im persuaded it would be 
reasonable for American Express to contact Mr R via email, based on the new process they 
have put in place, to discuss affordable ways he can make his repayments. This may include the Financial Relief Programme, which Mr R has mentioned he received an email about, but 
this ultimately would be a decision for American Express and Mr R to agree to. They should 
be clear how the different options may affect Mr Rs credit file  if at all, so he can make an 
informed decision on what would be the most appropriate choice for himself.
In summary, Mr Rs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Mr R is disappointed with this, I hope he 
understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to rework Mr Rs accounts to reflect 
that the interest rate should not have been increased after he told them to close his accounts 
in June 2021. They should refund the difference of interest which was charged on his 
account between the interest rate that he was paying in June 2021, and the increased 
interest rate. 
If Mr R still owes an outstanding balance on either account, then I intend to ask American 
Express to contact him via email, under their new process to work out an affordable 
repayment plan. American Express should be clear how the different options may affect Mr 
Rs credit file  if at all, so he can make an informed decision on what would be the most 
appropriate choice for himself if he is still suffering from financial difficulty. 
I intend to ask American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to also pay Mr R £600 
for distress and inconvenience for the reasons Ive already given. Im still satisfied this is a 
fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) should settle 
the complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman