DRN-2581184
The complaint
Mr K complains that Paragon Bank Plc failed to provide the required information about its 
variable rate ISA and that the product was, therefore, mis-sold to him. Hes also unhappy 
that the interest rate fell significantly shortly after purchase and would like Paragon to pay 
the original rate in force at the time of purchase.
What happened
Mr K says he was looking for a suitable ISA and, after doing some research online, chose 
the Paragon cash ISA, primarily because of the attractive interest rate of 1.2%. He opened 
the ISA in April 2020 and at the same time, transferred his previous years ISA into this 
product and persuaded his mother to do likewise.
However, on 18 May 2020 Paragon wrote to Mr K to advise him that the interest rate would 
be reduced to 1% on 1 June and it reduced again to 0.5% on 3 July. Mr K says this is a drop 
of more than 50% in 3 months.
Mr K complains that under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Banking: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (BCOBS) rules, Paragon was required to provide information about how any 
changes in the interest rate would be handled and the circumstances in which that might 
happen. He said the information provided by Paragon explained the first but not the second 
and, on that basis, he considers the product was mis-sold.
Mr K was also unhappy with Paragons response of 13 July and 18 August, which he felt 
didnt deal with this specific issue or provide any documentary evidence to show it had 
complied with the rules on this point. He noted that the other banks and building societies 
hed looked at did provide the required information, as Paragon had acknowledged in its final 
response in August.
Mr K says that, if hed known Paragon was planning to reduce the rate by so much so 
quickly, he might have chosen another product. To put matters right, hed now like Paragon 
to pay the difference between the 0.5% they are paying (or any lesser rate that might apply) 
and the original offer rate of 1.2%. on the full balance of his ISA for a full twelve months from 
the opening of the account. If he added to the ISA within that time, Paragon should also pay 
the higher rate on that added amount and, in addition, pay at least £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by whats happened.
Paragon said this was a variable rate ISA so it considered it was evident that the rate could 
go up or down and it felt the information it provided was in line with the regulations. It said 
the reductions reflected the reduction in the base rate and the rates applicable in the wider 
market and were adjusted as part of its regular reviews of its products to ensure it remained 
competitive. It noted Mr Ks view that it had known in April that it was intending to reduce the 
rate but said that the rate of 1.2% had been in force since 24 January 2020 and hadnt 
changed until June which didnt support this view. In the circumstances it didnt agree it had 
done anything wrong.
Our investigator reviewed the BCOBS rules and, BCOBS 2 Annex 1. This sets out the 
information that must be provided in the summary box by a business about a savings 
product. Shed reviewed the information Paragon had included in its summary box for this 
ISA, and its general terms and conditions. Having done so, she didnt think Paragon had 
explained the circumstances in which the rates could change although it was clear that this 
was a variable rate product. 
However even if Paragon had provided this information, she didnt feel it would have affected 
Mr Ks decision whether to go ahead with this ISA.  This was because Mr K had said his 
primary reason for choosing this was the rate of interest it was offering so it was probable 
hed have still been persuaded. And the reasons Paragon had given for reducing its rates 
werent unusual or specific to this product. In the circumstances she didnt feel it would be 
reasonable to ask Paragon to pay the higher rate to Mr K.
Mr K disagreed and said, in summary:
It was conjecture whether hed have gone ahead if the information had been 
provided. If hed had all the information, he might have chosen a fixed rate.
The BCOBS rules were there to protect customers and should not be overlooked 
simply because hed gone ahead and opened the account. He felt hed been 
disadvantaged by Paragons failure to comply with the rules and the account had 
been mis-sold.
He noted Paragon had now informed hm the rate was going down again. He felt 
Paragon was luring customers in on the promise of a relatively high rate with little 
intention of being able to honour it, irrespective of the variable rate clause on the 
account. He queried why Paragon continued to advertise a rate of over 1% in June 
2020 when the base rate had gone down in March. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has referred in detail to the FSC handbook, in particular the BCOBS rules. I should 
explain that when making my decision I will take into account the relevant rules and 
regulations and any industry good practice but Im not bound them and my decision is to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
Where theres no information on any particular point, or the information available is unclear 
or disputed, Ive looked at the wider circumstances of the case and made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.Ive taken into account what Mr K says about the BCOBS rules and that Paragons failed to 
comply with them. For clarity, Ive set out the relevant rules below:
Rule BCOBS 2 Annex 1 Form of Summary Box for Savings Accounts
Can [name 
of firm] change 
the interest rate?Whether or not the firm has the right to change the rate or rates of 
interest.
Where the firm has the right to change the rate of interest, brief 
details of the circumstances in which that right may be exercised 
and how and when notice of the change will be given (see note 
4).
Note 4 A firm may wish to direct the banking customers attention to the relevant clause in 
its terms and conditions that sets out the reasons for which the firm may change the interest 
rate and the procedure for doing so.
I consider that its clear from this that a business is expected to say not only how and when 
any change of interest will be notified but the circumstances in which that might happen. As 
Mr K has noted, in the summary box for this product, Paragon has answered the question 
Can Paragon Bank change the interest rate by stating The interest rate is variable. Please 
see 5.12 in General terms and Conditions. Clause 5.12 goes on to explain the mechanism 
for informing customers of a rate change but not the specific reasons why it could happen.
As Paragon hasnt set out the specific circumstances in which a change might occur, I can 
understand why Mr K feels Paragon hasnt fully complied. However, its not for this service to 
tell Paragon what it must include in its documents as thats a matter for the regulator, the 
FCA. Instead Ive looked at whether I consider the product was mis-sold to Mr K and 
whether Paragon now needs to do anything to put matters right.
Ive considered the information that was available to Mr K about this product and can see the 
summary box made clear that this was a variable rate product. On that basis, I consider Mr K 
would have known that interest rates could go up or down and that there was no guarantee 
that any rate would remain payable or for how long. Mr K went ahead on that basis.
Ive also seen that Mr K says he chose this ISA because of the rate of interest it was 
offering, not because he was looking for certainty over a set period of time. If certainty was 
important then only a fixed rate could have offered this as any variable rate would always 
have been liable to change at any time. On that basis I think it more probable than not that 
Mr K would have gone ahead, even if Paragon had provided more information about the 
circumstances in which the interest rate could change.
I say that because the reasons given by Paragon for the changes in this case were not 
unusual or specific to this product. If they had been then Id agree that it would be important 
for Paragon to make this clear so the customer is aware of any special terms. But in this 
case the reasons given for the reduction were changes in the Bank of England base rate and 
wider market forces. These are very broad reasons that would always be applicable and 
werent specific to this product. For that reason, even if Paragon had stated this in the 
summary box, I think it more probable than not that Mr K would have gone ahead based on 
the rate of interest the product was offering at that time.
As Mr K has said, the interest rate dropped at the beginning of June and went down again 
the following month. I can understand why Mr K found this so frustrating but the 1.2% rate 
had been in force since the 24 January and didnt change until 1 June. For that reason, I 
cant agree theres any indication to suggest this was a temporary rate intended to attract customers with a view to dropping it shortly afterwards. And although the changes didnt 
immediately mirror the changes in the base rate, Paragons explained that its approach is to 
do periodic reviews of its products and I consider thats reasonable.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr K is hoping for but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
consider this product was mis-sold to Mr K. Mr K understood he was opening a variable rate 
ISA and that rates could go up or down. I appreciate how disappointing it is that rates have 
continued to go down but thats a reflection of the market and was always a possibility with a 
variable product. 
In the circumstances I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable to ask Paragon to 
pay the higher rate of interest on Mr Ks ISA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman