DRN-4204084
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) behaved unfairly when it closed 
her accounts in June 2022.
Background
Miss H had a bank account, with an overdraft facility with Santander. In June 2022 the bank
made the decision to close Miss Hs account with immediate effect following an allegation of
fraud by a third party. It also added a Cifas marker against her name at this time due to the
allegation made against her.
Miss H has said the stress of having her accounts closed in this way, and the marker added
to her name, resulted in her losing her job as she still in a probationary period and unable to
concentrate or focus on her work. She has also said as a result of the account closure she
had existing bills go into arrears as she was unable to access her funds to pay her rent and
other creditors. She said at the time she explained to Santander she knew who the person
who sent the funds to her account was and that while the funds may have been sent in error,
it wasnt the result of anything she had said or done. She has also provided evidence to
show the impact on her mental health and job loss.
Santander have confirmed that the decision to close the account was taken after a third-
party bank contacted it to say Miss H had been in receipt of fraudulent funds. It says the
terms and conditions of her account allowed for the immediate closure in these
circumstances. However, the marker was removed in September 2022 when Santander was
contacted again by the same third-party bank confirming that the funds were not transferred
due to fraud and the sender was someone known to Miss H. Once this issue was clarified
Santander agreed to reopen Miss Hs account.
Unfortunately, Santander was unable to add the overdraft facility back onto Miss Hs account
immediately due to the arrears that had been registered against it. However as of April this 
year, following the adjudicators view, Santander have cleared any adverse information it
added to Miss Hs credit file, as well as the £240 arrears linked to the previous overdraft
facility, and has provided her with a new overdraft limit of £300. In addition to this Santander
has also paid Miss H £50 compensation for the problems caused when the account was
reopened without the overdraft attached late last year.  
Miss H remains unhappy with the compensation offered by Santander as she believes had it
not been for the marker placed against her and the closure of her accounts in June 2022 she
wouldve passed her probationary period at work and would now be in full time employment
in her chosen career. She has also said that as a result of her rent arrears she is now facing
eviction and potential homelessness. She has asked Santander to provide her with an
overdraft facility of £1,000 and pay her a total of £1,000 compensation in recognition of the
distress and upset caused by the way it responded to the allegation of fraud and its decision
to close her account.
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Hs complaint on 30 May 2023. In it I said that while I 
agreed Santander had made errors when investigating the allegation of fraud, I felt that it 
had already attempted to rectify the situation for Miss H. So I said that it needed to pay her 
an additional £250 on top of everything that had already been done. 
Santander accepted my decision.
Miss H didnt. In response to the provisional decision, she made the following points:
£250 compensation isnt enough to fairly reflect the implications the event had on her 
life and the time and effort she went to to resolve it 
She is still in poor health and experiencing financial problems due to what happened. 
She is currently at risk of eviction
She believes an amount of £2,000 or a £1,000 overdraft would be more reasonable. 
She wants Santander to apologise for what happened
She is still having problems opening a bank account elsewhere
This has been impacting her for five months
Her mental health has been affected
The situation messed up her life
It has also messed up her credit file
She is unable to pay to get her laptop back
Shes had to borrow money from friends and family
The situation has caused difficulties within her family
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate all of the above points raised by Miss H, and that the experience has 
caused her a lot of upset and distress, most of the points she made were addressed in the 
provisional decision. So I will repeat those parts of it here and expand further where 
appropriate. 
Miss H has said that shortly after the Cifas marker was added to her name and the account
closed, she was offered her dream job, one she had trained for in university and had
worked very hard to achieve. She has said that as a result of the stress caused by allegation
of fraud as well as her account being closed by Santander she ended up losing her job as
she was unable to concentrate on her work properly. She has also said she then ended up
financially vulnerable as she had no income and no chance to apply for a new job.
Im very sorry to hear about Miss Hs experience and the loss of a job she clearly really
wanted. However, Im unable to say that the reason why she lost her job is the result of
Santanders decision to close her account. Rather I think the allegation of fraud, and the
upset that it caused, had a serious impact on Miss Hs mental health and her ability to focus
on her work. But I cant say that Santander is responsible for that allegation as it was made
by a private individual who was known to Miss H, and not by the bank itself. Therefore, it
would be unreasonable of me to hold the bank responsible for Miss H losing her job and the
upset this caused her. Which means I also cant hold the bank responsible for the financial
stress Miss H experienced following her job loss.
Since issuing the provisional decision Miss H has provided us with evidence that she may be 
evicted from her home. She has said the financial problems she is experiencing are all linked 
back to losing her job because of the problems with her bank account. However, as I said in 
the provisional decision, once the allegation of fraud was made, Santander had a legal 
obligation to investigate it. And so, as Ive said above, I still think Miss H wouldve experienced upset and stress as a result, even if the investigation had been handled 
differently. 
Any investigation into the account wouldve likely still required the bank to freeze or put a 
hold of some description on Miss Hs account. And while I dont think Santander completed 
its investigation properly, I do still think an investigation was necessary. So, Im still of the 
opinion that the problems Miss H is experiencing started with the third party who made the 
allegation of fraud against her, and not the bank for taking that allegation seriously, as it is 
legally bound to do. 
Santander has accepted that Miss H was never in receipt of fraudulent funds and that she
didnt do anything wrong or illegal prior to the funds being sent to her account. I do think the
bank shouldve done more when the allegation was made before it decided to add the
marker against Miss H, especially considering she knew who the sender was and had
previously received funds from them. I also think that the bank reacted too strongly when it
decided to close her account immediately.
That said, Santander has already accepted it made an error in how it dealt with Miss Hs
account closure. It has since deleted the Cifas marker against her and reopened Miss Hs
account and paid off the outstanding overdraft balance of £240 and removed the adverse
makers it had added to her credit file. Miss H has since told us that her credit file is still 
negatively impacted by the Cifas marker. If Miss H can see any information on her credit file 
relating to the Cifas marker Santander applied, she should contact the bank immediately as 
it has assured this service that those markers have been removed. If they have not I would 
expect the bank to remove them as a matter of urgency. 
In addition to the £240 the bank wrote off for Miss H it also paid her £50 compensation for 
delays in getting an overdraft facility added back onto her account once the marker had been 
removed. Miss H has said that £250 compensation doesnt fairly reflect the impact the 
marker has had on her life. However, when I suggested this amount I took into consideration 
the fact the bank had already effectively paid Miss H £290 for the mistakes it had made. So 
the additional £250 brings that amount to £540 which I do think is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
When the overdraft facility was added back on the limit was set to £300. Miss H has said she 
wants Santander to increase her overdraft limit to £1,000. However, it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to direct the bank to do that. Santander will have its own lending criteria
and risk appetite and I cant ask it to increase Miss Hs overdraft limit if the bank doesnt
believe it would be affordable for her. 
I appreciate that Miss H believes that increasing her overdraft limit would allow her to reduce 
her current financial problems. However, the issue is that an overdraft facility is a form of 
credit and banks are required to check, when providing credit, that its affordable to 
consumers. In order to do this banks request certain income and expenditure information 
from consumers as well as consider other things like credit scores or existing borrowing. If, 
after completing these checks, Santander has found that an overdraft limit of £1,000 isnt 
affordable for Miss H, then Im unable to compel it to increase her limit. Indeed it wouldnt be 
responsible for me to do so, as while it might solve some issues in the short term, increasing 
Miss Hs limit may make things harder for her in the long term. 
Miss H has said she is still finding it difficult to open a bank account elsewhere. Im unsure 
why this is the case as Santander has said that the marker it placed against her has been 
removed. I would recommend that Miss H check the Cifas register (which she can do online) 
and if there is still a marker from Santander showing against her she should contact the bank 
immediately to discuss it. Miss H has said that she wants Santander to apologise for the mistakes it has made. I think 
this is reasonable and so will include a direction to the business to apologise to Miss H when 
providing her with her compensation payment. 
I do understand that Miss H is experiencing an extremely difficult time at the moment and the 
threat of losing her home is horrendous. She has explained that she is unable to pay to get 
her laptop back and that having to borrow money from friends and family has caused 
relationships to become strained. Im very sorry to hear this is the case. However, Im unable 
to link all of the problems Miss H is having back to how Santander investigated the allegation 
against her. I still think the issue that caused the problems Miss H had with her account goes 
back to the allegation made against her and not how the bank responded to it. Even though 
Santander made some errors in how it managed its investigation into Miss Hs account, the 
investigation itself would have always had to take place once that allegation had been made. 
So, I cant hold Santander liable for all of the problems Miss H is currently experiencing, I 
can only ask that it compensate her for the mistakes in the investigation, not the 
investigation itself.
Putting things right
In order to put things right Santander should do the following:
Pay Miss H £250 compensation for the upset caused by how it handled its 
investigation into her account. This is in addition to the £290 already paid
Apologise to Miss H for the upset and distress it has caused by immediately closing 
her account and adding a Cifas marker against her without fully investigating the 
allegation made against her
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Miss Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman