DRN-3031502
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card, in 1993. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Lloyds should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive seen the form Mr S used to get his new card account in 1993. This was most likely a 
branch sale and I think there would have been a discussion about whether or not Mr S 
wanted to have PPI with the new account. I say this because I see it was set out on the 
application form that he wanted this type of cover. He signed the form and I think the 
charges for PPI would have later started to show up on his monthly statements. These 
events were obviously from a long time ago, but I think the evidence shows Lloyds properly 
obtained Mr Ss consent to add the PPI.
Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Mr S as part of an advised sale so it had to check 
that the PPI was right for him. In my view, the evidence about Mr Ss circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, 
he was eligible for the cover and he had only limited other means to fall back on in the event 
of something unexpected happening, such as losing his job or being unable to work. I note, 
for instance, that Mr S had no sickness protection with his job. The PPI, on the other hand, 
could have paid off 10% of Mr Ss credit card balance for up to a year in the event of a 
successful claim and looking at the cost, I think it was affordable for him.
Mr Ss representatives say he was in a high-risk occupation. However, no context was 
provided to explain how. They also said hed suffered some broken bones, having been 
injured in 1969. Again, few details were provided and Im afraid I dont think these issues, 
well over 20 years before the PPI sale, are relevant, although I can understand their 
importance to Mr S at the time.
Overall, I think the policy was suitable and recommending it to Mr S wasnt unreasonable.
Its obviously possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. In my view, it wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying 
from the information he was likely given at the point of sale. 
I do think that additional policy rules would have applied to certain mental health medical 
conditions and back problems and that additional evidence would have been required to 
support a claim for these. I think its possible these might not have been fully explained.  
However, theres no evidence these issues would have been ones which Mr S would have 
thought claiming for was likely. And in any event, I dont think hed have expected to claim 
for these possible occurrences without at least providing some evidence. I therefore dont 
think Mr S would have declined the policy even if Lloyds could have done a better job at 
explaining things. The evidence is, in my view, that he would have still bought the policy.
Mr Ss representative raised a number of what I consider to be other general points, which it 
says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ss representative has failed to say how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought carefully about these and how they might apply in Mr Ss particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done this Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ss representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr S should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr S about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr S paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr S with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ss complaint or make any award for this part.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable. I 
understand this has already happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman