DRN-4201301
The complaint
Miss G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a medical 
expenses claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 16 May 2022, Miss G took out an annual travel insurance policy online through a price 
comparison website. The policy was underwritten by IPA. Miss G travelled abroad, but 
unfortunately required emergency surgery while she was away due to an infected cyst. She 
made a medical expenses claim on her travel insurance policy.
IPA looked into Miss Gs claim and it obtained her medical records from her GP. It noted that 
Miss G suffered from asthma and fibromyalgia, amongst other conditions. It said that the 
policy Miss G had taken out didnt cover a policyholders pre-existing medical conditions and 
so it turned the claim down. However, it did ask the policy broker to refund the premium 
shed paid for the insurance contract.
Miss G was unhappy with IPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Miss Gs claim should be upheld. She didnt think IPA had 
demonstrated that there was a link between Miss Gs existing medical conditions and the 
condition which had given rise to her claim. IPA told us that if Miss G had declared her 
medical conditions at the point of sale, she wouldnt have been eligible for the policy. But the 
investigator didnt think IPA had provided enough evidence to show this was the case. So 
she recommended that IPA should pay Miss Gs claim, together with interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought it 
had been fair for IPA to turn down Miss Gs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the law; the terms of the insurance contract; and the available medical evidence, to decide 
whether I think IPA handled Miss Gs claim fairly.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms - or not at all - if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When Miss G took out the policy by online, she was asked information about herself and any 
medical conditions shed had in the last two years. IPA used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Miss G and if so, on what terms. IPA says that Miss G didnt 
correctly answer the questions she was asked during the online sales process. This means 
the principles set out in CIDRA are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply these 
principles to the circumstances of Miss Gs claim.
IPA thinks Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took out the policy online. So Ive considered whether I think this was a fair conclusion for 
IPA to reach.
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. IPA says that it isnt able to 
provide us with evidence of the gateway questions the price comparison website wouldve 
asked during the sales process. But it has provided us with a copy of its own eligibility 
questions which it asked during the online sale and copies of Miss Gs answers to those 
questions.
Question four asked:
Within the last 2 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any medical 
condition, (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness, or injury) that has 
required prescribed medication (including repeat prescriptions) or treatment including 
surgery, tests or investigations?
IPA provided evidence which shows that Miss G answered no to this question. In my view, 
this question was asked in a clear and understandable way and ought to have prompted a 
reasonable consumer to realise what information IPA wanted to know. IPA thinks that Miss 
G ought to have disclosed existing medical conditions, including asthma and fibromyalgia. 
So Ive looked carefully at Miss Gs medical records in the two years prior to the purchase of 
the policy (from 16 May 2020 onwards) to decide whether I think she took reasonable care to 
answer IPAs question.
Miss Gs GP records show that in July 2020, she visited a pain clinic and was referred to a 
maxillofacial surgeon. This appointment took place in April 2021. It appears that Miss G had 
been prescribed medication by the pain clinic which was changed in February 2021.She 
underwent a scan for dysfunctional uterine bleeding, and in June 2021, she was referred to 
gynaecology. This appointment took place in October 2021. Miss G was reported to have 
asthma, underwent an asthma review in February 2021 and her notes show that she used a 
steroid inhaler regularly. And I can see that in April 2021, Miss G had a severe urinary tract 
infection and was referred to urology. I think that given the conditions Ive mentioned  and 
in particular, the medications and referrals which took place during the two-year period prior 
to the claim, it was fair for IPA to conclude that Miss Gs medical conditions fell within the 
scope of its question. I think too that Miss G ought reasonably have been prompted to 
answer yes to IPAs eligibility question.
IPA says that had Miss G answered this eligibility question correctly, it wouldnt have offered 
her this insurance policy. It says that consumers with medical conditions arent eligible for 
this cover. This is also noted in the contract terms, which state:
Demands and needs
This policy meets the Demands and Needs of a customerwho has not suffered a medical 
condition nor required prescribed medication, surgery, treatment, tests or investigations 
within the two years leading to the policy purchase date.In my view then, the available evidence suggests that Miss G did make a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think IPA is reasonably entitled to apply the relevant 
remedy available to it under the Act. IPA hasnt told us how it classified Miss Gs 
representation  but on the evidence before me, I think the misrepresentation was likely to 
be careless. I say that because I dont think Miss G intended to mislead IPA  but it seems 
she didnt take enough care to ensure she answered its questions correctly.
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, that an insurer is entitled to rewrite the 
policy as if it had all of the information it wanted to know at the outset. If it wouldnt have 
offered the policy, it may cancel the policy from the outset and refund the premium. In this 
case, as Ive explained, IPA says had Miss G answered its eligibility question correctly, she 
wouldnt have been able to take out this policy and it wouldnt have offered cover. Im 
satisfied, based on the evidence its provided, that this was the case. So whilst I sympathise 
with Miss Gs position, I currently think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to decline her 
claim, cancel the policy and ask the broker to refund her premium. So I find its actions are in 
line with CIDRA and it follows that I dont plan to direct IPA to do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
IPA didnt respond within the timeframe I gave.
Miss G disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised her response:
She had not intended to mislead IPA. The condition which had led to her claim was 
unrelated to her pre-existing medical conditions;
Shed understood IPAs question to refer to conditions which had been diagnosed 
within the two years prior to policy purchase, not conditions which had been 
diagnosed earlier. Therefore, shed answered no during the application;
Having re-read the eligibility question, shed noted it was over 40 words long. She felt 
the question had been difficult to understand. She noted that the current application 
process asked the eligibility question in a simpler way. Miss G queried why;
The insurance terms and conditions made it clear that pre-existing medical conditions 
werent covered, but gave her no opportunity to state what they were;
Miss G provided further information about her medical history, including why shed 
thought she no longer had asthma inn the two years prior to the policy purchase. The 
other medical conditions shed suffered from were all caused by ongoing fibromyalgia 
(which had been diagnosed in 2019).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss G, I still think it was fair for IPA to 
turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
First, I should make it clear that I appreciate the condition which led to Miss Gs claim wasnt 
linked to her pre-existing medical conditions. However, CIDRA applies to consumer 
insurance contracts where an insurer can show that a qualifying misrepresentation affected 
the terms on which it would have offered cover. It doesnt require the misrepresentation to be 
linked to the cause of a claim. So while Miss Gs claim wasnt down to any existing condition, 
this doesnt negate the provisions of CIDRA or whether its fair and reasonable for me to 
apply them to the circumstances of her claim.It's clear Miss G feels strongly that the eligibility question she was asked was unclear and 
open to misinterpretation. However, I disagree. I think IPAs question made clear the 
information it wanted to know. I think the questions clearly set out that IPA was asking about 
conditions a policyholder suffered in the two years before the policy was taken out 
(including medications, tests, investigations, surgery etc). I dont think the question indicated 
that IPA was only asking about conditions a policyholder had been diagnosed with in the two 
years before the policy was taken out. It also isnt unusual or unreasonable for application 
questions to change over time.
And based on Miss Gs medical records, I still think that she ought reasonably have been 
prompted to declare fibromyalgia and asthma too. Even if I accept that Miss Gs last inhaler 
prescription took place in July 2020, this was still medication which was prescribed within the 
two years of the policy being taken out in May 2022. I note Miss G has referred to the fact 
that she wasnt provided with details about how to declare her pre-existing medical 
conditions. But the policy didnt cover any pre-existing medical conditions at all. This means I 
wouldnt have expected IPA to include details of how to declare conditions in its policy terms.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the evidence suggests that Miss G 
deliberately intended to mislead IPA when she answered its eligibility questions. But as I set 
out, I dont think she took reasonable care to answer its questions accurately. And IPA has 
shown that it wouldnt have offered Miss G the policy at all if it had been aware of her pre-
existing medical conditions. So Im satisfied that she did make a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. On that basis, despite my natural sympathy with Miss Gs position, I still find 
that it was fair and reasonable for IPA to decline Miss Gs claim, cancel the policy from the 
outset and ask the broker to refund the premium she paid for the policy. And I remain 
satisfied that IPAs actions were in line with CIDRA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman