DRN-4369070
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made various errors with her mortgage, 
including giving her incorrect information about her contractual monthly payments (CMP). 
What happened
Miss S has a mortgage with Barclays. Her interest rate product was due to expire at the end 
of October 2022 and she agreed a new 10-year product in September 2022. The product 
offer said her monthly payments would be £379. However, when the product took effect 
Barclays said the monthly payments would be £397.
When Miss S asked Barclays about this via its webchat, it said her monthly payments were 
£350  which was the monthly payment under her previous product. 
Miss S is worried that she isnt making the right payments. She wants to continue making 
overpayments, to pay off the mortgage sooner, but thinks this confused Barclays. Barclays 
wrongly said her account is in arrears, when shes overpaid. Miss S also complains that 
Barclays used her overpayments to reduce her payments when shed told it she wanted to 
reduce the mortgage term. 
Barclays offered £350 compensation and a £20 good will payment. Miss S says this isnt 
enough for what shes been through. Miss S has suffered a recent bereavement and close 
family members are seriously unwell. She wants Barclays to reverse the part repayment but 
says this shouldnt increase her monthly payments. 
Our investigator said Barclays made a number of errors, and this caused upset to Miss S 
during a difficult period in her life and over several months. He said Barclays should pay 
£750 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator said the product offer explains that the actual monthly payment could be 
different to the estimate in the product offer. He said he couldnt require Barclays to change 
the monthly payment without also changing the term. He said Miss S can ask Barclays to 
reverse her part repayment, but this would increase her monthly payments. 
Barclays didnt agree that £750 was justified. It said it offered a resolution soon after Miss S 
raised a complaint and it was Miss Ss choice to bring her complaint to this service. 
Miss S said £750 wasnt enough. She said this had caused her distress for over a year. She 
reiterated the various problems shes had with her mortgage account. Miss S says due to 
Barclays errors she stopped making overpayments and will pay additional interest as a 
result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Miss S took out a new 10-year product in September 2022. The product offer said the 
monthly payments would be about £379. It said this was based on a balance of £54,500 and 
the actual payments could vary. The new product rate took effect on 1 November 2022. 
Barclays wrote to Miss S in early November 2022 saying her new CMP would be £397. This 
letter said her balance was £54,300. It said Miss Ss direct debit was set up to £400 and this 
would continue.
Barclays says the balance used for the product offer and for the calculation of the CMP can 
be different. Interest accrues daily and so the balance is higher when a payment is due. 
However, that wasnt the reason for the discrepancy here.
The reason for the difference between the monthly payments in the product offer and the 
CMP is to do with how Barclays treats overpayments. Barclays told us:
It uses the mortgage balance as reduced by the overpayment balance when it calculates 
the monthly payments for the product offer. 
It doesnt reduce the mortgage balance when calculating the CMP. Thats because the 
overpayment balance could be used in future to fund underpayments. 
Barclays also says any overpayment balance reduces the balance that interest is calculated 
on. So the amount of interest applied to Miss Ss account is the same whether or not the 
overpayment balance is consolidated. 
Miss Ss overpayment balance was about £2,400. So the mortgage balance Barclays used 
to calculated her CMP was about £2,400 higher than the balance it used to calculate the 
monthly payments in the product offer. 
Barclays says in its revised payment letters that overpayments might not be included in the 
new CMP and refers to further information about overpayments on its website. But the 
question Miss S asked was why her CMP was different from the monthly payment in the 
product offer. Its unfortunate that Barclays didnt explain this clearly to Miss S in late 2022.
Miss S contacted Barclays by webchat in mid-November 2022 to ask about her CMP. 
Barclays incorrectly said her CMP was £350. Miss S says she had numerous phone calls 
without getting a clear explanation.
Miss S cancelled her overpayment arrangement. Miss S says shell pay more interest as a 
result, but didnt have confidence that Barclays would apply her pot of money as she wanted.
Barclays recorded Miss S making a complaint about her CMP on 2 December 2022. It then 
arranged for Miss Ss overpayment balance to be capitalised to reduce her CMP. Miss S 
hadnt asked for this.
Miss S called Barclays on 5 December 2022 to ask if her CMP had been reduced. She said 
when she agreed the rate it was for a monthly payment of £379. Barclays call notes say 
Miss S didnt want her overpayment balance to be capitalised, and a sufficient explanation to 
her as to why the figures are different might suffice. 
Nonetheless, Barclays capitalised the overpayment and wrote to Miss S on 6 December 
2022 confirming it had applied £2,400 as a part redemption, which would reduce her balance and monthly payments. It said her new CMP was £380. 
Miss S says this was done without her consent. She wants her overpayments to reduce the 
mortgage term. Initially, Barclays said Miss S had requested this. It later agreed she hadnt. 
Barclays sent a final response letter in late January 2023. It apologised for giving her 
incorrect information about her CMP and offered £370 compensation.
Having considered all of the above, Ive reached the following conclusions:
1. I dont think its right to require Barclays to fix Miss Ss CMP at £379. The CMP is 
calculated to be the amount Miss S needs to pay each month so as to repay her 
mortgage by the end of the term. It wouldnt be in Miss Ss best interests to pay less than 
is required to do this. 
2. Theres no evidence the CMP calculated by Barclays is incorrect. The product offer says 
the actual CMP could be different to the payments it quotes. 
3. Miss S can still make overpayments to her mortgage account, if she is able and wants to 
do so. If she makes regular over payments her mortgage will be repaid sooner.
4. Barclays should have told Miss S when she first asked why her CMP was higher than the 
monthly payment in the product offer. This would have avoided considerable upset and 
inconvenience.
5. Barclays gave Miss S incorrect information that her CMP was £350 in November 2022.
6. Barclays capitalised Miss Ss overpayment balance without her consent. Its own notes 
made at about that time said that wasnt what she wanted. It didnt acknowledge this until 
August 2023. This caused Miss S further unnecessary upset. 
7. While Miss S didnt want her overpayments to be capitalised this didnt cause her 
financial loss. Overpayments reduce the balance on which interest is calculated whether 
capitalised or not. The only difference is that, once capitalised, the CMP is reduced. But 
Miss S can still make overpayments if shes able and wants to do so. 
Putting things right
Barclays said it could reverse the capitalisation  to re-instate the overpayment balance. 
Miss S would need to contact Barclays to confirm she wants this, as it would result in her 
CMP increasing. 
Barclays didnt agree to pay £750 compensation. It said the complaint wasnt raised until 2 
December 2022 and much of the time since was due to Miss Ss decision to raise it with this 
service, not delays on its part. It said there had been no material changes since then that 
warrant the increase in compensation. I dont think thats fair or correct. 
Barclays final response letter contained a number of errors. It said Miss Ss payment of £400 
was out of character when shed been making this payment (which was in excess of her 
CMP) for some time. It then said the £400 payment was to repay arrears, which was also 
incorrect. It said re-instating the original CMP would lead to further arrears. 
Miss S says her account has never been in arrears, and she told us how upset she was by 
these inaccurate statements. I can understand that Miss S wasnt confident about the 
investigation carried out by Barclays into her complaint. In addition, the final response letter didnt address the main crux of Miss Ss complaint  why 
her CMP was different to the amount quoted on the product offer. And it didnt look into the 
capitalisation of the overpayments. This was despite the capitalisation itself affecting the 
CMP, being carried out seemingly in response to Miss Ss complaint and its own notes 
recording that Miss S didnt want this. Barclays didnt acknowledge that it had done this 
without Miss Ss consent until the complaint had been with us for six months.
I appreciate that Miss S says £750 isnt enough for what shes been through. I should say 
that when deciding what compensation is fair and reasonable, we dont just consider the 
nature of the error but how it has affected the individual customer. 
At the outset, Miss S asked why her CMP was more than the monthly payments in the 
product offer. If Barclays had explained this, shed have been spared considerable worry and 
inconvenience. Instead, Barclays gave her incorrect information and made further errors, 
including in its final response letter. 
Miss S told Barclays in the call on 2 December 2022 that close family members were 
seriously unwell and about a recent bereavement. Its clear from the call recording that she 
was frustrated about previous incorrect information and became upset as the call went on. 
Miss S is going through a very difficult and upsetting time, and shes told us how upsetting 
shes found this whole matter.
I also need to take into account that the CMP isnt incorrect, Miss S didnt suffer any financial 
loss and shes said shes not in financial difficulties. 
Miss S is understandably upset and worried about her family. I cant fairly require Barclays to 
pay compensation for this. But I can require it to pay compensation for the additional upset 
and inconvenience caused by its errors at such a difficult time. Taking all of the 
circumstances into account, I think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay 
compensation of £750.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay £750 to Miss S (it can deduct any compensation already paid), and
reverse the capitalisation of the overpayment balance, if Miss S confirms she wants this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman