DRN-3198236
The complaint
Mr K complains that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly without doing sufficient 
affordability checks or properly assessing signs of over indebtedness. 
What happened
Mr K was given a single loan by UK Credit. Mr K told UK Credit that he would use the 
loan for debt consolidation and repay some of his other outstanding debt with the 
money UK Credit provided. 
The main loan details are as follows:
Date of 
LoanLoan Amount Loan 
Term 
(months)Monthly 
RepaymentInterest 
payable
19/06/2019 £10,000 48 £366.31 £7,582.88
When Mr K complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold the complaint so Mr K brought his 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and he felt that this was a complaint 
we should uphold. 
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that:
because Mr Ks rent, council tax and water bill had been deducted at source, our 
investigator hadnt properly assessed the amount his credit was costing him as a 
proportion of his actual income since our investigator didnt know how much that was 
it wasnt quite true for our investigator to have said that Mr K was already spending 
a considerable amount of his income on other loans as this couldnt be verified
UK Credit said Mr Ks remaining household expenses would be significantly less of a 
proportion of his remaining income
it didnt agree that there was enough to say that Mr K may have been reliant on credit 
and its credit search at the time showed he was managing his credit items relatively 
well
Mr K was using the loan to consolidate some of these debts
when UK Credit did up to date credit checks it said these showed problems started 
when Mr K had a significant and unforeseen change in circumstances. It pointed to 
the fact that the credit cards that were meant to be settled had either been settled 
and closed or settled and left open but with a £0 balance
there were absolutely no signs of financial struggle evidenced anywhere in the up to 
date credit report and no proof that this loan caused any financial detriment to Mr K 
and we hadnt provided UK Credit with any statements to show otherwise.
UK Credit asked for an ombudsman review. The complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending decision 
shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Ks complaint. 
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr K before it agreed the loan. It asked him 
for details of his income and verified this by doing an online check. UK Credit also 
obtained a credit report to find out about Mr Ks credit history and during a phone call it 
asked Mr K about his normal monthly spending and how he planned to use the loan. 
Mr Ks monthly take home pay, after deductions had been made for rent, council task and 
his water bill, was recorded as £1,750. After reviewing the information on the credit report it 
obtained and speaking to Mr K, UK Credit worked out that with the planned debt 
consolidation, Mr K should still have a monthly surplus of around £141 after paying for its 
loan. So UK Credit concluded that the monthly repayment of £366.31for this loan shouldve 
been affordable for him. On this basis, UK Credit concluded at the time that it was fair to 
provide this loan to Mr K  and it still thinks this. 
Ive carefully taken into account everything UK Credit has said  including comments it made 
in response to our investigators view. But I see things differently to UK Credit. I agree with 
our investigator that UK Credit didnt make a fair lending decision when it agreed to provide 
this loan to Mr K based on the information it had in front of it. Ill explain my reasons for 
saying this.
One of the main reasons why I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint is 
because I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about what the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Ks financial situation. And I dont think the fact that his rent, council tax and monthly costs for water were deducted at source and he received his pay net 
of these amounts makes any overall difference to the outcome. 
UK Credit was able to see that Mr Ks outstanding balance owing on loans was £12,125, he 
owed £6,155 on credit cards and £292 on other credit accounts. He had used most of his 
£250 overdraft. I think, given Mr Ks particular circumstances, this did appear to be a lot of 
unsecured debt for someone in his situation. Mr Ks need to use credit to this extent  
especially what looked like significant reliance on credit cards wasnt explained by what he 
told UK Credit.   
I think UK Credit shouldve realised that the information it had gathered showing the extent 
of his reliance on expensive credit and the fact he was overdrawn by £234 at the bank was 
significantly at odds with what its credit checks showed and that it couldnt safely rely on 
what Mr K had told it about how he spent his money. 
I also think its fair to say that the credit checks it obtained showed that another member of 
his household had at least two credit cards at or over the account limit as well as mail order 
accounts close to the limit of the available credit offered. It was apparent that this person 
also had a defaulted account from 2018. Although this wasnt the person applying for this 
loan, I still think this was part of the overall picture that UK Credit was able to see. And given 
that Mr K had told UK Credit he was substantially the main earner, I think it wouldve given a 
useful context for thinking about whether this loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for 
Mr K given the apparent financial strain the household expenses looked to be under overall. 
I dont think using this loan to repay existing debt was enough to give UK Credit reason to 
think this wouldve improved Mr Ks overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and 
sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given that his total outstanding 
indebtedness amounted to £18,572. The amount of the loan would still leave significant debt 
outstanding. After the planned debt consolidation, UK Credit calculated that Mr K was still 
committed to make monthly repayments of £562 towards his non-consolidated debt and on 
top of this he would need to pay his new UK Credit loan monthly repayment of ££366.31. 
Even without knowing the amount of money deducted by his employer before paying over 
the balance of Mr Ks salary, it is evident that Mr K would need to pay more than half the net 
take home pay he actually received just meeting his credit commitments. I think this was 
such a significant proportion of his available spending money that it wasnt ever likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr K, bearing in mind the 4 year loan term, and the fact that some 
of his other big non-consolidated debt items were set up to run for well over the next two 
years. I think this is borne out by the information UK Credit saw on the updated credit checks 
it carried out when Mr K complained about this loan. 
Although UK Credit has said that Mr K used the loan as planned to repay other debt and 
there were no signs of financial struggle evidenced anywhere in the up to date credit report 
I dont agree that his position improved in the way UK Credit seems to be suggesting. 
Its evident that when UK Credit did up to date checks these showed that Mr Ks overall total 
indebtedness had increased by more than £1,734  up from £18,572 in June 2019 to around 
£20,306 in September 2020. So whilst he may have paid off some of his credit cards in 
reality, he simply changed the type of credit he was using but was more reliant than ever on 
obtaining new credit.
Although the credit card balance had gone down by £4,030 (to £2,125) the overall loan 
balance had increased by £5,454. And his outstanding balance on other credit had gone up 
by £306 to £598. I can see that Mr K took out a new loan costing £64 per month over 3 years just 5 months after he took out this loan. I think Mr Ks continuing reliance on taking out this 
sort of expensive credit, after taking this loan to consolidate debt, supports my view that this 
loan wasnt sustainably affordable for him from the start. And although I can see that his 
changed circumstances brought matters to a crisis point, its my view that lack of overall 
sustainably was always a foreseeable outcome and I cant see that this loan was other than 
detrimental to him from the start..
I think our investigator was right to be concerned that the disposable income figure UK 
Credit worked on wasnt, in reality, dependable. To be clear, I think the fact that Mr K lived in 
paid for accommodation and there was a second household income makes his use of 
expensive credit more difficult to understand or explain  its not a reason to be reassured 
about his level of debt. Thinking about all the information UK Credit had gathered, I dont 
think it was able to be satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely 
conclude this loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr K. 
Even with the planned debt consolidation, I think the scale of Mr Ks debt and the evidence 
that indicated he was already most likely significantly over stretched financially, compared to 
the much smaller value of the loan UK Credit provided, would suggest that it was reasonably 
foreseeable that Mr K would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. 
So its my provisional decision that UK Credit shouldnt have agreed to give this loan to Mr K 
on the basis of what it knew about his financial situation when it provided the loan. For these 
reasons, I am planning on upholding Mr Ks complaint that he should not have been given 
the loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that UK Credit acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr K in some other way. So Im not planning to award any 
additional redress over and above what I've set out below. But as Mr K has been further 
indebted with expensive lending that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied 
that he has lost out as a result of what UK Credit did wrong. So, I think UK Credit needs 
to put things right.I hope that setting out my reasons will help explain how Ive reached 
my provisional decision and I invite UK Credit to reconsider its position in view of what 
I've said.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mr K and UK Credit have told me that they dont wish to add anything more to what 
theyve said already and so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Id like to thank both 
parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. Given that Ive not 
received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, 
I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr K shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If UK Credit has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, UK Credit should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ks credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman