DRN-2964926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the settlement Society of Lloyds offered for a claim under 
their park home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L made a claim to Lloyds after a fire totally destroyed their three-bedroom park 
home. The park home was situated in a relatives garden. Because of a change in building 
regulations they cant put a replacement park home of a similar size or larger on the same 
plot.
Mr and Mrs L say they were told by several manufacturers and other site owners that they 
wouldnt be able to get a three bedroomed park home in the same width and length as the 
one they had, due to new regulations which came into force in 2000. These regulations 
require park homes to have thicker insulation. As a result a new three-bedroom park home 
would have to be bigger to comply with the regulations.
Mr and Mrs L sent Lloyds quotes for £360,000 and £349,000 to buy and site a new park 
home from a park home site which they said would meet their needs.
Lloyds offered them a replacement park home or £57,893 to settle the claim. It said that was 
based on the discounted amount it would cost it to buy a park home from a manufacturer. 
That sum also included £2,500 for the siting fee.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with the settlement offer. They brought their complaint to this 
service. I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. An extract from my 
provisional findings is set out below:
Under the terms of the policy, Mr and Mrs L are only entitled to a like for like replacement as 
opposed to a new for old replacement. The policy stated:
Where property cannot be replaced or repaired we may at our option pay in cash the 
amount of the loss or damage. If we do pay cash, the sum payable will reflect any discounts
we may have received, had we replaced the property.
Theyre also entitled to the cost of re-siting and delivering a replacement park home.
Mr and Mrs Ls original park home was manufactured in 2000 and they say it measured 33 x 
22ft.
The quotes which Mr and Mrs L provided Lloyds were for a park homes measuring 45 x 
22.3ft and 45x 20ft. These are around a third bigger than the original and are classed as 
luxury bespoke lodges on the quote.
Lloyds said its offer was based on the closest equivalent model available given that the 
manufacturer of Mr and Mrs Ls original park home was no longer trading. It said its 
replacement model was better than their previous home for the following reasons:
It was built to a higher standard with significantly more insulation.
It was 36x20 ft and gave Mr and Mrs L a little more space.
The home and its appliances were brand new whereas the original park home had been 
purchased second hand.
It came with a ten year structural warranty and the roof was guaranteed for 30 years.
It complied with current fire requirements.
They also offered to have it delivered to a site of Mr and Mrs Ls choice.
It seems to me that the main difference between Mr and Mrs Ls quotes and the offer made 
by Lloyds stems from the fact that Mr and Mrs L can no longer put the replacement park 
home in their relatives garden. They would need to buy or rent a plot on a residential site. 
As they werent on a residential site previously, I dont think it would be fair to require Lloyds 
to pay the additional costs involved in buying a plot on a park home site. Its only liable to 
replace the park home as opposed to the cost of somewhere for it to be located.
But Im not persuaded that Lloyds offer was based on a like for like replacement of the park 
home that was damaged. Previously Mr and Mrs L had a bathroom with a bath and a 
separate wc with a power shower. In the floor plan of the model used by Lloyds theres only 
a bathroom with a shower and a separate wc with a basin. Since a bath and separate 
shower room was considered by Mr and Mrs L as important, I think Lloyds should have 
chosen a model incorporating these features.
Mr and Mrs L also say they had two double bedrooms and one single, whereas Lloyds offer 
was based on a double bedroom and two singles. Since Mr and Mrs L had two other family 
members living with them, I think this would also have been a significant difference.
Lastly the offer was based on an unfurnished unit. Lloyds said that was because some 
furniture had been included in Mr and Mrs Ls contents claim. So far as I can tell, the 
contents claim only included a small amount of furniture, namely one double wardrobe, and 
a single bed. Furniture for park homes generally comes as a package supplied by the 
manufacturer. I dont think it was fair of Lloyds not to opt for the furniture package because it 
had paid out separately for these two items. The furniture package is still likely to be the 
most cost effective way of it replacing the other furniture. In the case of the model used by 
Lloyds furniture would have cost an extra £1,600. In order to treat Mr and Mrs L fairly I think 
it should have included this.
Lloyds park home estimate refers to a siting fee of £5,000. So I agree that Lloyds should 
pay an extra £2,500 towards this.
In response to my provisional decision Lloyds offered to settle on the basis of a quote of 
£62,036 based on a park home measuring 38 x 20ft with two double bedrooms and a 
bathroom with wc and a further separate wc. It also agreed to the furniture package of 
£1,600.
In summary Mr and Mrs L made the following points:
Their policy covers the cost of complying with any government or local authority 
requirements. So it should cover the fact that their park home needed to be re-sited 
elsewhere.
They didnt think Lloyds could buy the park home it had based its quote on for the 
amount of its settlement offer.
Theyd been told when they took out the policy to take out cover of £500,000 and that if 
their park home was destroyed, it would be replaced with a brand-new equivalent.Their park home had three double bedrooms and two bathrooms which had been 
refurbished to a high standard.
The policy covered the cost of re-siting the park home. The policy didnt say it would only 
cover re-siting on the original site.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the specification of the park home on which Lloyds has based its revised 
quote. There is no shower in either the bathroom or WC. So I dont think its like for like with 
Mr and Mrs Ls original park home.
Any settlement that Lloyds offers should be based on a replacement park home that would 
be in line with all applicable regulations. Lloyds has quoted on the basis of new park homes 
that are fully compliant. The difficulty is that Mr and Mrs L no longer have a suitable site for 
it. Unfortunately for them I dont think thats Lloyds problem. Its only responsible for 
replacing the original park home and not for providing an alternative site.
Ive seen the quotes on which Lloyds has based its various offers. There is a significant 
difference between what it would pay and the market rate a consumer might pay. But 
insurers often have arrangements with companies that mean they can replace things for far 
less. So Im satisfied that Lloyds offers were based on the amount it would have paid if 
Mr and Mrs L had wanted a replacement park home. 
Just because policyholders have cover up to a certain amount doesnt mean that the insurer 
has to pay any more than a like for like replacement would cost. If Mr and Mrs L think the 
policy was mis-sold to them, they will have to make a separate complaint about this.
Based on the dimensions of their original park home and the floor plan supplied by Mr L, I 
think it was reasonable for Lloyds to work on the basis that it had two double bedrooms and 
a single bedroom. But it also had two bathrooms, one with a bath and the other with a 
shower. As mentioned above, I think Lloyds needs to take that into account. 
I dont doubt that the original park home had been refurbished to a high standard. But 
Lloyds was offering to settle based on a replacement that was brand-new with new 
appliances. So I think in this respect the offer was a fair one.
Park home insurance usually covers re-siting costs. By this I think the insurer is referring to 
the cost of connecting a new park home to electricity, gas and sewerage on an existing plot 
as opposed to the not inconsiderable cost of a new plot. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L have 
lost a great deal as a result of the fire and now face a more uncertain future in rented 
accommodation. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Lloyds to pay for the plot 
on which a replacement park home could be situated.
Putting things right
To put things right I remain of the view that Lloyds should revise its cash settlement offer so 
that its based on a park home with the same interior layout as their old home in terms of a 
bathroom with a bath, basin and wc and a separate wc with shower, two double bedrooms 
and one single and the manufacturers furnishing package. It should also add an extra 
£2,500 in respect of the siting fee.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint in part and require Society of Lloyds to revise its cash settlement 
offer as set out in the section headed Putting things right and to pay a further £2,500 to 
Mr and Mrs L in respect of the re-siting fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman