DRN-3595183
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) unfairly 
denied him access to the accounts he held on its platform. Mr J said this caused him 
considerable stress and a sense of victimisation. 
What happened
Mr J had three accounts with HL  a stocks and shares ISA, SIPP and Fund & Share 
Account totalling around £700,000 in value. In September 2021 HL wrote to Mr J as it had 
noticed he had made several contributions into his Fund & Share Account since mid-2020 
and went onto to withdraw those funds without making any investments in between. 
In line with regulatory good practice, HL sought a bank statement showing the source 
account of a £50,000 contribution he had made in August 2021. HL would temporarily 
restrict Mr Js accounts until it received the statements. 
Mr J didnt agree with this and complained to HL. It rejected his complaint. It said;
It was concerned that Mr Js Fund & Share account wasnt being used for its 
intended purpose and had asked for a context behind the numerous deposits and 
withdrawals which were considered as unusual behaviour. 
It needed a good understanding  Client Due Diligence (CDD) and Enhanced Due 
Diligence (EDD)  of how and why its client used its platform for it to adhere to UK 
Money Laundering Regulations. 
It hadnt received the requested source bank account information as it had 
requested, so Mr Js account was restricted. 
Mr J said he wouldnt be providing that information as he had no idea what the checks were 
for. He needed access to his accounts as he wanted to arrange to transfer them to another 
platform. 
HL confirmed that it needed to query his residential address because of conflicting 
information. Mr Js responses to that query failed so the restrictions remained on his 
accounts. 
In February 2022 HL wrote to Mr J terminating its agreement with him. In March HL became 
concerned that a third party was assisting Mr J with his account and it would need authority 
for this to happen. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the above and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
He said HL had overstepped the scope of the service provided by restricting Mr Js account 
and he considered it to be in breach of section A5 of its terms and conditions. To put the 
matter right Mr J wanted HL to immediately reinstate access to his accounts so he could 
transfer them to another provider. He also wanted interest on his account balances for the 
period his accounts were restricted to recognise that HL had neither contractual entitlement 
nor contractual process to act as it did. 
Our investigator who considered Mr Js complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
HLs terms and conditions confirmed it had the right to restrict access to Mr Js 
account.
HL was a regulated business and had legal and statutory obligations to follow.
This service would not generally interfere with the reviews HL had carried out as they 
were in line with HLs regulatory obligations. 
Mr J hadnt provided the documentation that HL asked for but after review of his 
account in January 2022 the restrictions were lifted on his Fund & Share account and 
in March 2022 his other two accounts. He was able to transfer his accounts. 
While the restrictions must have been frustrating for Mr J, the investigator couldnt 
conclude that HL had acted unfairly.
Mr J was disappointed in the response. He questioned what the purpose of this service was 
if it wasnt prepared to take a view on the regulated obligations of a firm that was subject to a 
complaint and requiring third party resolution. He wanted an outcome that held HL to 
account for its regulatory obligations and conduct. And he wanted to obtain an assessment 
as to how HL should change its process to prevent further mishandling of its clients integrity 
and which would be published for potential customers to assess HLs suitability as worthy of 
becoming a client. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I dont uphold the complaint and agree with the investigators conclusions and 
broadly for the same reasons. 
My role is to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, having regard to the law, industry rules and 
guidelines and good industry practice. 
So, in determining what is fair and reasonable, I have regard to the law when considering a 
complaint. I can see Mr J feels very strongly about his complaint. Thats clear from what hes 
said to us and to HL. Whilst I appreciate Mr Js frustration, its important to clarify that the 
only point in question here is whether HL has done what it should have done. And I think it 
has. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at HLs ability to review and block Mr Js accounts. HL has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only just pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations HL may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. And the 
business is also entitled to ask questions about payments into and out of an account in order 
to comply with those obligations. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for HL to review and block Mr Js accounts and ask him for information and evidence about 
how he was operating his accounts. My understanding is that this was its usual procedure. 
The information HL was asking Mr J to provide is fairly standard information financial businesses are required to have in order to adhere to their Know Your Customer (KYC) 
responsibilities or Customer Due Diligence (CDD), as set out by the regulator - the 
Financial Conduct Authority. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr J inconvenience, I cant say 
HL treated him unfairly when it blocked his accounts and asked him to provide the 
information that it did.
HL asked Mr J to evidence the source of a credit to his account of £50,000 which wasnt 
invested but withdrawn shortly afterwards. Im aware this wasnt the only time this happened. 
Mr Js accounts with HL were primarily execution only investment accounts so I think its 
completely reasonable for the credit and debits of cash, without being invested, to have 
triggered HL to seek further information about where this money was coming from and to try 
and ascertain how he was operating his account in order for HL to comply with UK Money 
Laundering Regulations. 
Ive also reviewed HLs terms and conditions. I appreciate the relevant section is known to 
the parties but for completeness, I repeat them here. The concluding paragraph for section 
A5  Account security says;
We may stop or block access to, or restrict your ability to carry out certain actions in 
relation to, your Account where: 
[examples are given] 
Where we are able, we will notify you if we block access to your Account and give 
you the reasons for doing so. We do not accept any liability for any loss you suffer 
where we act in accordance with the provisions of this section or where you fail to 
comply with your obligations under this section.
After reviewing the whole Account security section of the terms and conditions, and in 
particular the above, I cant agree that HL has acted outside of its contractual agreement 
with Mr J. I dont think it was wrong in identifying payments going in and out of his accounts 
that would have caused it concern. And that being the case, it had a regulatory responsibility 
to take action and seek further information and evidence from Mr J. 
I appreciate that Mr J was a long-standing client of HL. And I also appreciate that he may 
have been concerned about the security of his data and his personal information and being 
hesitant about giving that information to another party. But I dont find the information HL 
requested to be anything other than standard nor do I find that it was overly invasive or 
unreasonable. 
In his response to HL, Mr J explained he was the beneficial owner of the assets held in his 
name and was in no way involved in money laundering or terrorist financing which suggests 
to me he understood the seriousness about why HL needed to ask him this information. But 
his assurance alone wouldnt have been sufficient for HL to have satisfied its regulatory 
responsibilities. 
In bringing his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, Mr J has said he wants HL held to 
account for its regulatory obligations and conduct and to obtain an assessment as to how HL 
should changes its process to prevent further mishandling of its clients integrity. But I dont 
agree that HL has acted outside of its agreement with him or hasnt acted as its regulatory 
obligations require it to do. And while I appreciate that Mr J may feel that his integrity has 
been challenged, I dont find that HL has acted either unfairly or unreasonable in its dealings 
with him.I understand that after reviews, Mr J has been able to access all of his accounts since        
14 March 2022 so will have been able to transfer his accounts if that remained his intention, 
so he has the resolution to his immediate complaint resolved.
Overall, taking all of the above into account I dont find that HL has done anything wrong and 
I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman