DRN-3984269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about First Complete Ltds handling of their Contents Insurance 
policy.
All references to First Complete also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs J have provided a copy of the policy documents. Under your right to 
cancel it says a cancellation fee can be charged for any cancellations. 
Mr and Mrs J have pointed out the policy documents set out a list of applicable 
scenarios where the insurer may cancel the policy. But the policy was cancelled by 
Mr and Mrs J. So, I agree these arent applicable here.
However, I have also seen a copy of the terms of business that would have been 
provided to Mr and Mrs J when the policy was incepted. Its a four-page document 
and on the first page it sets out a cancellation fee applies if the policy is cancelled. 
So, I do think this has been set out clearly.
Cancellation fees are not uncommon and are standard in most insurance policies. 
Industry guidance sets out an insurer can charge reasonable administrational costs, 
and Ive not seen anything that persuades me this figure is unreasonable or 
disproportionate.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Js concerns about the impact matters may have 
had on their credit file. But having reviewed the information provided to me, I cant 
see anything to persuade me it has had any negative impact.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman
