DRN-3638276
The complaint
Mr A complains about the offer Aviva Insurance Limited made in settlement of his motor 
insurance claim. 
All references to Aviva, includes its agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr A was involved in a car accident and made a claim on his policy with Aviva. Aviva 
deemed the car a total loss and said the claim should be settled by paying the cars market 
value. Mr A rejected Avivas initial valuation of his car and it increased its offer to £11,000. 
Mr A still thought it was too low and complained. He says he replaced his car for £16,000. 
Aviva thought its offer was fair, but it paid Mr A £100 compensation in acknowledgement of 
the delays in providing a suitable valuation. 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought the valuation was fair and thought the £100 Aviva offered was 
sufficient for the inconvenience he was caused by the incorrect valuation it initially provided. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the car fairly. 
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. 
Under the terms of Mr As policy, Aviva must pay him the market value of the car, less his 
excess. The policy defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification and 
condition. 
I understand Mr A says he replaced his car for around £16,000, but I dont think that means 
Aviva need to pay him this amount. This is because, the policy only requires Aviva to pay the 
cars market value immediately before the loss. While I appreciate Mr A purchased his car 
for more than was offered, I dont think it means he paid its market value. Furthermore, the 
car Mr A purchased was a year younger and had a mileage which was less than half that of 
his previous car. So, I dont think its comparable to his previous car.  
Valuing a car is not an exact science and can be quite challenging. Its standard practice for 
the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its 
not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. 
Aviva based its valuation on figures from three guides, CAP, Glass and Parker, these 
valued Mr A car at £7,895, £8,170, and £7,695 respectively. Its engineers thought Mr As car 
had a higher mileage than is average, and this impacted its market value. Ive looked at its 
searches and I can see at least one guide made a significant adjustment on the price due to 
the cars high mileage. So, I dont think what their engineer has said is unreasonable. 
I also carried out my own search using a fourth guide, this produced a value of £8,385. We 
usually find a fair valuation would fall within the range of figures obtained from the guides. 
However, Aviva valued the car higher than the guide prices and paid Mr A £11,000, I think 
thats fair, so I wont ask it to do anything more. 
Aviva acknowledged that the initial offer made to Mr A was too low. It recognised the delay 
this caused, and I understand it will have been frustrating to Mr A. Im glad it reviewed its 
initial valuation and offered Mr A a fairer value for his car. It paid him £100 compensation for 
the delays and the customer service he experienced, and I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Ive decided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman