DRN-1755492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National Westminster Bank Plc was unfair to decline their 
porting application and then apply an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid their 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2018. They asked to port the mortgage 
in 2019. NatWest declined, saying it was concerned the new mortgage wouldnt be 
affordable. This was because Mr Gs employer had said it intended to move its operations 
out of the UK in 2021.
Mr and Mrs G said this was unfair. They said Mr Gs employer had confirmed hed be 
employed until mid-2021 and set out the extensive redundancy package he would receive. 
They had to apply for a mortgage with another provider. Mr and Mrs G say its unfair for 
NatWest to apply the ERC of about £9,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said NatWest 
was entitled to apply its lending criteria to the application, and had declined their application 
on the basis of affordability. As Mr and Mrs G repaid their mortgage while an ERC applied, 
NatWest was entitled to charge the ERC.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2018. The mortgage was portable. In 
2019 Mr and Mrs G contacted NatWest as they wanted to move house. They wanted to port 
their existing mortgage and increase their borrowing. 
NatWest declined Mr and Mrs Gs application. It said it didnt consider the new mortgage 
was affordable, as there was no guarantee that Mr G would be able to find work with a 
similar income after he was made redundant. Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with a 
different provider, and paid an ERC of about £9,000. 
Mr and Mrs G had taken out a five-year fixed interest rate product. An ERC applied if the 
mortgage was repaid before December 2023, and this was set out in the mortgage offer that 
Mr and Mrs G accepted. Mr and Mrs G repaid the mortgage during the period that the ERC 
applied. I think NatWest was entitled to charge the ERC.
Mr and Mrs G say while the product terms allowed NatWest to charge the ERC it was unfair 
in the circumstances for it to do so. While I think there are circumstances in which it would 
be unfair for a lender to apply an ERC, I dont think thats the case here. 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage was portable. This didnt mean they had the right to port their 
mortgage  only the right to apply and have their application considered fairly. The mortgage 
offer says:
Your new application must meet our lending criteria current at the time you move. We 
will carry out credit checks on you, and will require a valuation of the new property, 
and will decline to port if you do not meet our criteria in force at that time. This may 
mean that we decline to lend at all on the new property, or may allow you to port less 
than the amount you have applied for.
The rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to assess whether a customer will be able 
to pay the mortgage payments. The lender must not enter into a mortgage unless it can 
show the mortgage is affordable. The rules say the lender must take into account future 
changes to income that they are, or should reasonably be, aware of from information 
obtained during the application process. 
Here, NatWest was aware that Mr Gs employment would end in mid-2021. It had to take this 
into account when assessing Mr and Mrs Gs application. NatWest says it declined their 
application on the basis of affordability. It said it wasnt responsible to lend in the 
circumstances.
Lenders have to have a responsible lending policy in place, taking the rules on mortgage 
regulation into account. Theyre also entitled to apply their own lending criteria. So while Mr 
and Mrs G applied successfully to another lender, this doesnt mean its wrong or unfair that 
NatWest has a different lending policy, or that it took a different view of Mr and Mrs Gs 
application.
I havent seen anything to suggest NatWest dealt unfairly with Mr and Mrs Gs application to 
port the mortgage and increase their borrowing. It explained why it declined their application. 
The ERC was set out in the mortgage offer, as well as the need for a porting application to 
meet its current lending criteria. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require NatWest to refund the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman