DRN-3249851
The complaint
Mr Ks complained that First Underwriting Limited (FUL) unfairly cancelled his car insurance 
policy and refused to pay a claim he made on it.
All references in this decision to FUL include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
Mr K applied for the policy via what later turned out to be a ghost broker  thats to say a 
scammer who illegitimately arranges insurance policies. During the application process, 
Mr K said he lived at an address Ill refer to as A. FUL offered, and started the policy on, that 
basis.
While the policy was running, FUL was contacted by the police. Theyd stopped Mr K while 
driving the insured car and this eventually led FUL to become suspicious that he didnt live at 
A but in fact lived at an address that Ill call B. Without Mr Ks knowledge, FUL cancelled his 
policy on the basis that hed misrepresented his address as it wouldnt have offered the 
cover had it known he lived at B. Mr K was subsequently involved in a road traffic incident 
and became aware of the cancellation of the policy when he tried to claim on it. 
FUL tried to make amends for cancelling cover without notifying Mr K by reinstating cover  
including for the time the incident occurred  before cancelling the policy from the start again 
albeit this time with notice. In short, FUL wasnt satisfied with the explanation and proof hed 
provided regarding his address.  
Mr Ks car was declared a total loss, which left him out of pocket by almost £40,000. He 
complained to us and our investigator looked into the matter. The investigator recommended 
the complaint be upheld on the grounds that Mr K hadnt misrepresented his address. They 
asked FUL to reinstate the policy and consider the claim and, if valid, pay Mr K a further 
£500 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered through its actions.    
FUL didnt agree with the investigators findings. It believed the balance of the evidence 
provided by both parties showed Mr Ks address was B. It obtained underwriting evidence 
showing it wouldnt have offered the policy to Mr K had it known his true address. 
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) potentially 
applies where a consumer answers one or more questions incorrectly in buying or renewing 
an insurance policy.
Where thats been established, its important to go on and consider, for example, what type 
of misrepresentation was made and what the insurer would have done with the application 
had there been no misrepresentation.
In my view, Mr Ks complaint largely boils down to whether that first requirements been met 
 that is, whether he answered the relevant question incorrectly. If I find that it was answered 
correctly, then theres no need for me to consider the other aspects of CIDRA Ive 
mentioned.
In taking out the policy, Mr K was asked his address and said it was A. FUL disputes that 
was his address and believed it was in fact B. It falls to me to decide, on balance, whether it 
was fair for FUL to find that he lived at B and not A. 
Let me say that the evidence is by no means clear cut. FUL has, for example, pointed to a 
lack of conclusive evidence from Mr K showing he lived at A when he bought the policy. Its 
also provided, for example, a report from an intelligence firm it instructed. 
Among other things, the report said Mr K was associated with both A and B, but that the 
indications were that his earliest association with A wasnt until five months after the start of 
the policy. The report also said he was on the electoral roll for B and had been since 2017. 
The firm recommended, on the basis of the investigation it had carried out, that it should 
make further enquiries, for example, of credit reference agencies, the DVLA and Land 
Registry. 
On the face of it I accept the above, in and of itself, might at least suggest that Mr K lived at 
B at the time of the application. 
Having said that, I dont believe the intelligence report highlighted persuasive evidence to 
show Mr K didnt live at A. I note that it recommended further investigation be carried out but 
Im not aware whether thats now happened or, if it has, what the firms findings were. 
In addition, Mr Ks been consistent in his testimony as to where he lived at the time and how 
that came about. Hes explained that he left the family home at B (before applying for the 
policy) because of a dispute and moved in with another family member at A. He explained 
he still occasionally stayed at or near B overnight and that his work and his partner meant he 
still spent considerable time in and around that area.  
Mr Ks also provided supporting evidence to show that he lived at A, including financial 
details, legal papers and a copy of his driving licence. 
I recognise that FULs frustrated that weve taken the approach we have given the evidence 
thats available. That said, its my role to consider that evidence impartially and without bias. 
In doing so, Ive kept in mind that not everyone leads what might be described as a 
conventional lifestyle whereby they stay at the same address virtually every night and have 
few or no significant work or social links with another address. Not everyone has all their 
financial details associated with one address and being on the electoral register at two or 
more addresses usually isnt permitted unless in certain restricted circumstances.    
On balance and, having very carefully considered all the evidence from both parties, I dont 
believe its been shown that Mr K answered the relevant question incorrectly. So, I see no 
need to go on and consider the other aspects of CIDRA. It follows that FUL shouldnt have cancelled the policy and refused to pay his claim due to 
misrepresentation on the grounds that it did. FUL should reinstate the policy and consider 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Finally, Im aware that the investigator recommended that FUL pay Mr K compensation, 
should his claim be payable, for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. As has recently 
been clarified with Mr K, this complaint flows primarily from the policys cancellation due to 
misrepresentation. I think it would be premature for me to make such an award at this stage 
given that FULs yet to consider the claim  albeit its open for FUL to decide to pay Mr K 
such compensation should the claim be deemed to be valid. M K accepts this.
So, to confirm, I make no award for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
FUL should: 
Reinstate Mr Ks policy as though it hadnt been cancelled and consider his claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms and conditions; and
Remove any adverse entries it might have placed on any internal or external 
databases in relation to Mr K and the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require First Underwriting Limited to put 
things right for Mr K as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman