DRN-2864499
The complaint
Mr C complains about poor information from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited when he took 
tax-free cash from his pension.   
What happened
Mr C had a personal pension with Aviva and in 2016 he wanted to take 25% tax-free 
cash from the policy. This wasnt possible through the policy he held, so Aviva 
transferred Mr Cs fund to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
Mr C took the tax-free cash that he wanted, but the rest of the fund remained in cash. Mr 
C says he didnt become aware of this until late 2018. He says he didnt realise the fund 
had been transferred to a pension he would have to manage himself. 
Mr C complained to Aviva and says he was told over the phone that the business 
agreed hed received poor service. But Mr C heard nothing further, and he didnt 
consider the complaint had been properly resolved. 
Aviva said it had sent a final response to Mr Cs complaint by email in February 2019. Mr 
C said he hadnt received the email. In that email Mr Cs complaint wasnt upheld. Aviva 
objected to this service looking into Mr Cs complaint because it said he hadnt referred it 
to us within the timescales set out in the final response letter.
Aviva later accepted there had been exceptional circumstances that had prevented Mr 
C from making the referral in time, and it agreed that we could investigate the 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. From what hed seen, 
he didnt find that Aviva had given Mr C any advice about transferring his pension in 2016. 
He was also satisfied that Aviva had made Mr C aware that he was responsible for 
managing the investments in his new pension. The investigator also considered the 
information supplied by Aviva to Mr C wouldve made him aware that his fund was held in 
cash after the tax-free cash had been taken. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He was concerned that Aviva hadnt 
supplied all relevant phone call recordings to the investigator, which had made his 
conclusions inaccurate. 
Mr C made a subject access request to Aviva which resulted in some additional information 
being supplied. Mr C asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and the 
matter was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 10 May 2021 and said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. Details of my provisional decision are set out below:
 
- Mr C had said throughout his complaint that in a phone call with one of Avivas 
advisers the adviser accepted Mr C received poor service when he transferred his 
pension, and offered compensation.
- A recording of that phone call wasnt available when the investigator reviewed the 
complaint, but Id been able to listen to it following Mr Cs subject access request to 
Aviva.
- It wasnt entirely clear when that phone call took place. Aviva had provided a 
recording of another call Mr C had with the same adviser, and it said that call took 
place on 27 February 2019. The call where compensation was offered took place 
some time after that.
- Both calls were after Avivas final response email which it said was sent on 7 
February 2019. I was mindful that Mr C had said he didnt receive that email. 
Mr C had also told me hed had dealings with various parts of Avivas business, 
and that hed lost confidence that his records were held accurately.
- In the phone call that took place on 27 February 2019 the adviser made no 
reference to a final response letter or email. In fact, the tone of the call was that the 
adviser wanted more details about Mr Cs complaint and was going to look into it. 
He then made the follow up call to Mr C where compensation was offered.
- With all of that in mind, on balance I wasnt persuaded that the email Aviva said 
was sent on 7 February could reasonably be said to be, or understood by Mr C as 
being, its final response to the complaint.
- So Id thought carefully about what Aviva said to Mr C in the call that took place 
after 27 February 2019. Mr C was unhappy that after hed taken his tax-free cash 
the rest of his pension fund remained in cash. He said hed had no idea that his 
new pension was a SIPP and that he would be responsible for selecting and 
managing the funds investments.
- Avivas adviser said hed listened to the phone calls between Mr C and Aviva from 
2016 when his personal pension was transferred to the SIPP. The adviser agreed 
that the information Mr C had been given wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. So 
he accepted that Mr C might not have realised what he was agreeing to when he 
signed up to the SIPP.
- The adviser offered £350 compensation and said that in addition to a free 
financial advice consultation, Aviva would also cover the cost of an additional 
financial advice session.
- Mr C said he was concerned his pension had lost value. The adviser said the 
interest earned on the cash had been enough to cover the fund charges. But Mr C 
pointed out there hadnt been any investment growth, unlike in his previous personal 
pension. He also said he didnt consider the compensation offered was enough.
- The adviser said he would look into the extent of any investment loss, and would 
call Mr C back later that day. As far as Im aware Mr C didnt hear from the adviser 
again, which was why he then complained to our service.- I was aware that Mr C wanted to take 25% tax-free cash from his original pension 
fund, but not access the remaining benefits at that time - but this wasnt possible 
through the policy he held, which is why Mr C needed to transfer to a different type 
of policy. Mr Cs original pension was a personal pension where the investments 
were managed by Aviva. 
- The business appeared to accept that it didnt make it clear to Mr C that he would 
be responsible for managing the investments in his new SIPP.
- I thought that if Mr C had been given clearer information from Aviva in 2016, 
its unlikely he wouldve transferred to a SIPP and simply left his fund in 
cash. On balance I think he wouldve invested in a managed fund after the 
tax-free cash had been taken.
- Having listened to the call between Aviva and Mr C, I was satisfied that Aviva 
accepted the information it had given him wasnt clear enough. So I said Mr C 
should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably now be in if 
hed been given clearer information from Aviva, and I recommended compensation 
on that basis. I also recommended that Aviva pay Mr C £350 in respect of the 
stress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C responded to the provisional decision, saying said he didnt think £350 
compensation was enough in light of the stress and inconvenience hed suffered. He said 
this was the same amount that Aviva had offered several years ago.
Mr C also said Aviva was restricting access to additional information. Mr C was 
concerned that redress should be based on the performance of his original pension, 
rather than the fund he was invested in after the tax-free cash had been taken.
Aviva disagreed with my provisional decision. It said it didnt agree with the findings of its 
adviser made during the phone call with Mr C. It said it couldnt find any evidence to 
support the decision the adviser had made.
Aviva supplied copies of documents it said wouldve been provided to Mr C when he 
arranged his pension. It said the information wouldnt have been provided to him verbally. 
Aviva said it wouldve discussed Mr Cs transfer options with him, and the implications of 
doing so, but it wasnt responsible for the actions he decided to take.
Aviva considered the complaint outcome decision taken by the adviser during the phone 
call was wrong. It said it was willing to consider a payment for trouble and upset, but that 
the compensation Id recommended was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr C has said in response to my provisional findings. I can appreciate why he might think the compensation amount isnt enough. But our 
compensation awards are not designed to punish a business. And when I take account of 
awards by this service in complaints of a similar nature, Im satisfied that the amount is fair 
and reasonable.
Ive noted what Mr C has said about information he believes Aviva is restricting access to. 
But Im satisfied that sufficient evidence has been made available for me to finalise my 
conclusions on the complaint.
The suggested redress is designed to put Mr C as close as possible to the position he 
wouldve been in if the balance of his pension fund (after hed taken the tax-free cash) had 
been invested in line with his previous pension. So Aviva is required to reconstruct Mr Cs 
current pension fund as if hed invested in the fund or funds he was invested in before he 
took the tax-free cash. 
Ive noted what Aviva has said about the information it says Mr C wouldve been given when 
his pension was arranged, and Ive also considered the terms and conditions and key 
features document its provided. Aviva has also told me that the information in those 
documents wouldnt have been provided verbally to Mr C.
Ive noted everything Aviva has said, and Ive balanced it against the phone call recording in 
which Aviva offered compensation to Mr C, which Ive listened to again.
The adviser on that call says hes listened to calls between Mr C and other Aviva advisers 
when the pension was arranged. He says hes also discussed the matter with other 
colleagues who agreed that the information Mr C was provided with wasnt clear enough.
The terms and conditions of the pension say:
For pension cash transfers, once Your transfer is complete You will need to select Your 
investments. Your transfer will stay in Your Cash Account until you do this.
And the key features document explains that the pension is a self-invested personal 
pension.  
But keeping in mind what was said by the adviser when compensation was offered, it seems 
there was some discussion between Mr C and Aviva when the pension was arranged. And 
having listened to the call, it seems clear the adviser and other colleagues were satisfied that 
the verbal explanation provided to Mr C wasnt clear enough to make him aware of what he 
was signing up to. 
The terms and conditions and key features document are also fairly lengthy and detailed 
documents. I accept that they set out the self-invested nature of the pension and the 
requirement to select investments for the fund. But Aviva itself has noted that the part 
relevant to this complaint is on page six of the document. Given the relative complexity of the 
policy (compared to Mr Cs previous pension), my view is that Mr C would have placed more 
store in what he was told verbally. And if he hadnt been informed that hed need to reinvest 
his pension funds once theyd been transferred, I dont think this is something hed then have 
actively researched in the provided documentation.
So despite what Aviva has said, I remain of the view that if Mr C had received clearer 
information from Aviva its unlikely that he wouldve invested in the SIPP and then just left his 
funds in cash. Mr C didnt realise that he needed to reinvest and I think this was a conclusion 
drawn on the basis of the omission of this important piece of information from the verbal 
conversations with the Aviva representative. I do appreciate that it wouldnt be possible to cover every aspect of the terms and conditions in a telephone conversation. But the self 
management aspect of a SIPP, and the need to take investment action once the transfer had 
been made, is one of its key features  and one which I think ought to have been set out 
clearly in conversations held about the transfer with Mr C at the time. 
So whilst I acknowledge that Aviva gave Mr C product literature, Im not minded to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision. And Im satisfied that Mr C should be 
compensated in line with my provisional findings.
Putting things right
With better information, I think Mr C would have invested his residual post-tax free cash 
benefits in the same way as theyd been invested before. Aviva should therefore 
reconstruct Mr Cs SIPP, at the date of this decision, as if hed invested in the fund or 
funds that he was invested in before he took the tax-free cash. It shouldnt do so if this 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to reconstruct Mr C's SIPP, it should pay any amount of loss, calculated 
at the date of this decision, directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. I have assumed that Mr C will be a basic rate taxpayer, and so a deduction of 20% 
would be appropriate here.
Any reconstruction of the policy should be implemented promptly after Aviva is notified of 
Mr Cs acceptance of this decision  and it should confirm to him that it has been 
completed. If a payment to Mr Cs SIPP or directly to him is made beyond 28 days after 
Aviva is notified of Mr Cs acceptance of this decision, Aviva should add interest to the 
redress sum at 8% pa simple from the date of this decision to the date of settlement.
Mr Cs reconstructed fund value, or receipt of directly paid compensation, will reflect the 
position he would now be in had his residual funds been invested as they should have 
been. 
Aviva should also ensure that his funds are invested in the same way for future investment 
returns. As such, I dont think that Aviva should need to cover the cost of any further 
financial advice  Mr C would effectively be invested in the same fund(s) as before. It is up 
to him then as to whether he changes his investment strategy.
Aviva should also pay Mr C £350 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr C in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Caroline StirlingOmbudsman