DRN-2262893
The complaint
AXA France IARD (AXA) has now taken responsibility for this complaint. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2001.
Miss G says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Miss G aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card. Miss G has told us that she cant remember PPI being mentioned when 
she applied for her card, and that if she was given a choice, she wouldnt have taken the 
policy.
I cant be certain what was said at the time Miss G applied for her card and PPI. But AXA 
has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Miss Gs store card application form had a 
separate section for PPI which Miss G signed separately in agreement to taking the policy. 
Miss G then signed the application again in agreement with the selections that were made 
on it. So, with the information available I think Miss G would have known she didnt have to 
take the PPI and she chose to have it.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Miss G, so it didnt have to check the policy was suitable
for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about the policy so she could
decide if she wanted to take it out.
Miss G says she would have received statutory sick pay if she was away from work due to
illness and had some savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Gs sick 
pay, and for longer. The policy would also have protected Miss Gs savings so they could be 
used towards any other expenses she may have had.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Gs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the 
cover. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking
out the cover.
Which means AXA doesnt have to pay back to Miss G the cost of the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman