DRN-3504248
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) incorrectly cancelled payments 
out of his account.
What happened
Mr S says he asked RBS to transfer his Standing Orders and Direct Debits to a different 
account but it cancelled them by mistake. He says this mistake had a significant impact on 
him and could have meant he was driving without valid insurance or car tax. Mr S says the 
compensation from RBS isnt sufficient for the time and impact the mistake had on him. He 
says RBS has re-imbursed him but hasnt paid compensation and that this issue went on for 
some significant time.
RBS accepts it made a mistake and cancelled the payments during a telephone call on 22 
December 2021. It says it has apologised and paid £395.50 compensation in January 2022. 
RBS accepts Mr S was caused inconvenience and distress as a result of the mistake.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted RBS had made a mistake. 
The investigator accepted Mr S had been caused inconvenience and distress but thought 
the compensation paid was appropriate.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation isnt sufficient. He says he 
was only reimbursed by RBS rather than paid compensation and says he has fought with it 
for years over this matter. Mr S would like compensation well in excess of £1,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that RBS has acted fairly by apologising for 
its mistake and by paying appropriate compensation. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed 
by my decision. And I confirm that I have listened to his telephone call to us and appreciate 
how strongly he feels about what took place.
I make clear to Mr S that we are not RBSs regulator and so its not our role to punish it for 
what took place.
There is no question here that RBS made a mistake by cancelling Mr Ss scheduled 
payments. I have no doubt Mr S was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of what 
took place and accept, he would have spent time trying to sort matters out. I appreciate what 
Mr S says about the potential impact the mistake could have had, on for example, his ability 
to drive legally. But I have to consider what did happen.
I also appreciate that Mr S says this issue took some time to sort out and says it may have 
been years. But Im satisfied that the mistake took place on 22 December 2021 and the 
position was sorted out in January 2022. So, Im satisfied that RBS dealt with the mistake 
within a short time period.
The key issue is the compensation amount. I appreciate Mr S says that RBS simply re-
imbursed his money rather than paying compensation. But I disagree with Mr S and am 
satisfied that RBS paid compensation and I have not seen evidence that Mr S paid the 
amount of the transactions twice. Im satisfied the payments would have had to have been 
paid in any event and the compensation is a separate amount.
I have not seen any evidence of any loss caused to Mr S by the mistake such as charges for 
returned direct debits. And Im satisfied that the £395 compensation paid by RBS is fair and 
reasonable. I dont think an award well in excess of a £1,000, as Mr S suggests should be 
awarded, is justified in these circumstances and when matters were sorted out in what I think 
was about a month. I appreciate Mr S says that his utility provider changed the way in which 
he was charged. I dont think that had a financial impact but think the compensation award 
overall fairly takes into account such inconvenience. I have not seen evidence that Mr Ss 
credit file was affected
Overall, I accept this mistake was not Mr Ss fault and that he was caused distress and 
inconvenience. But that the compensation award is appropriate and in line with the type and 
amount of awards we would make for this type of impact. I can see that RBS has fairly said it 
will send a letter to those companies payments were not made to explaining the error was its 
fault and not Mr Ss .No doubt Mr S will ask RBS to send such letters if he wishes and if they 
have not been sent.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman