DRN-4195494
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Target Servicing Limited has dealt with her request for a form 
to be completed in order that she can apply for Support for Mortgage Interest.
What happened
Miss G bought her property in 2019 with the assistance of a help to buy loan. Help to buy is 
a government scheme under which borrowers take out an equity loan to help them buy a 
property. The loan is a second charge secured against the property, ranking behind the 
borrowers main mortgage lenders first charge. No payments are required to begin with, and 
the borrower must start paying interest on the loan after the first five years. 
The lender of help to buy loans is Homes England (HE), which is a trading name of the 
Homes and Communities Agency. This is a government body and is not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. HE appointed Target to administer these loans on its behalf. 
Target is a regulated financial business and was carrying out the regulated activity of debt 
administration in respect of Miss Gs loan  so it is responsible for responding to this 
complaint.
In January 2022, Miss G phoned Target and said that she had been made redundant the 
year before, and her health conditions  which she explained include depression and anxiety 
 made it difficult for her to get a new job. She was worried about how she would afford the 
payments on her help to buy loan when they were due to begin in 2024. Target discussed 
how much she would be expected to pay and its arrears procedure. 
In March 2022, Miss G began an application for Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI), to help 
her with her payments on her first charge mortgage. She completed her part of the 
application. The other parts needed to be completed by her secured lenders so, in line with 
the guidance on the form, Miss G sent the form to her main mortgage lender and to Target, 
as the administrator of her help to buy loan, for them to fill in their parts. Target received the 
form on 28 March 2022, and Miss G told it in a phone call on 30 March 2022 that she 
needed it to fill in its part of the form in order that she could submit her claim for SMI.
In April 2022, Target asked HE whether it would complete the form. It emailed HE saying: 
We have received a universal credit form from a customer and they are asking us to fill it 
out, I just want to double check we wont sign these they will have to either sell the property 
or look for further advise? [sic]
HE replied to Target, saying borrowers should be directed to sources of government advice 
about accessing SMI. Target relayed this to Miss G in May 2022. Miss G explained her 
situation again and that she had already received advice before starting her SMI application. 
There followed a number of further, often lengthy, phone calls between Miss G and Target. 
Miss G then complained about the way she was being treated. She wanted her SMI form to 
be completed in order that she could make her claim, or if HE refused to complete its part, 
she wanted to understand why. She was also unhappy with the poor communication and 
delays she had experienced from Target.
On 1 July 2022, Target issued its final response. It said, in summary:
it had escalated Miss Gs concerns to HE and was awaiting HEs decision. It had asked 
HE to explain its reasons if it was unable to fill out the form, and Target would relay this 
information to Miss G on receipt;
it was sorry that agreed callbacks hadnt happened, and it accepted that Miss G had 
repeatedly had to initiate contact;
it was sorry Miss G had to wait for a long time for calls to be answered; and
it was paying Miss G £25 by way of compensation.
Miss G heard nothing more, so in December 2022 she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. She said she had been eligible for SMI since March 2022 
but Target was stopping her from getting the support she needs, and she didnt know where 
else to turn.
Following our involvement, Target said it would pay Miss G an extra £75 by way of 
compensation for its poor service. It also said HE wouldnt sign SMI forms for borrowers 
because this would mean a further charge being added to properties. It said it was in 
dialogue with HE about this, and it would support Miss G as much as possible if she is in 
financial difficulty when her help to buy loan payments start.
Our Investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. She concluded that Target 
hadnt treated Miss G fairly and hadnt done enough to support her and explain her situation 
to HE. She recommended that Target pay Miss G £1,750 compensation in recognition of the 
impact this matter has had on her.
Target said it had raised this issue again with HE and it would come back to our Investigator. 
It didnt then do so, despite reminders. 
Miss G said she was still very worried about her situation, and she had received a letter 
saying the administration of her loan was being transferred from Target to a new provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as our Investigator, for the same 
reasons.
Miss G told Target in January 2022 that she was worried about her financial situation. She 
went on to take advice elsewhere and looked into what support might be available to her. 
She decided to apply for SMI once she became eligible to do so. 
SMI is paid as a loan, to help mortgage borrowers pay the interest on their mortgages. It is to 
be repaid, with interest, on the sale or transfer of ownership of the mortgaged property. In 
order to apply for SMI, the applicants mortgage and secured loan lenders are required to 
complete part of the applicants application form. The Department for Work and Pensions 
would then consider an application.Target received Miss Gs form in March 2022, and Miss G explained to it in multiple phone 
calls that she needed it, or HE, to fill in its part of the form in order that she could proceed 
with her application. Her main, first charge mortgage lender filled in its part quickly. But the 
part of the form for her help to buy loan still hasnt been completed, and as a result Miss G is 
no further forward with her SMI claim. Target has told us that HE wont sign the form.
Help to buy is a government scheme intended to help people buy their own homes. Yet it 
appears that HE, a government agency, wont allow help to buy borrowers to apply for 
government support through SMI when they find themselves in financial difficulty. Target has 
told us this is because an SMI loan would result in a further charge against the security 
property. However, that charge would rank behind a borrowers main, first charge mortgage 
and also behind their second charge, help to buy loan with HE. 
HE isnt a regulated financial business, so I dont have jurisdiction over it. I cant therefore 
require it to give Miss G the consent she needs in order to go ahead with her SMI 
application, or require it to explain its reasons for refusing to do so.
Target, on the other hand, is regulated. It acted as administrator for this loan and, in doing 
so, it was carrying out the regulated activity of debt administration. Miss G was told to deal 
only with Target, as the lenders administrator, and Target was presented as being 
responsible for the management and administration of her help to buy loan agreement. As a 
regulated business carrying out a regulated activity, Target had a duty to act fairly and 
reasonably in carrying out the lenders duties. I dont consider that it fulfilled that duty in this 
case.
While the decision not to complete Miss Gs SMI application form  and thereby prevent 
Miss G from accessing the support she needs and to which on the face of it she is likely to 
be entitled  was HEs and not Targets, I dont find that Targets treatment of Miss G was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive taken that view after reviewing Miss Gs 
contact with Target, including recordings of her phone calls, alongside what Target has 
provided in respect of its contact with HE and what both Miss G and Target have told us.
Miss G has found herself in a very difficult position following her redundancy, and has acted 
responsibly, thinking ahead about her mortgage and loan payments and how she will afford 
them, and looking into what support she might be able to get. She has kept Target informed 
of her situation, including about her health conditions and the impact they have on her. Im 
satisfied that she made it clear to Target in March 2022 that she had taken appropriate 
advice before starting her claim for SMI, and all she needed in order to proceed was for HE 
to complete its part of her application form. She also explained that her main mortgage 
lender had filled in its part of the form without any problems.
It appears from Targets April 2022 email to HE, which Ive quoted above, that it knew HE 
wouldnt complete SMI application forms as a matter of policy. Target then simply relayed 
HEs direction that Miss G seek independent advice to Miss G, even though she told it 
repeatedly that she had already done so. Target then failed to update her at all following its 
July 2022 final response letter, despite having said it would do so.
Our Investigator asked Target for records of its contact with HE explaining Miss Gs situation 
and the impact that blocking her claim for SMI was having on her. Target provided a few 
emails, including the April 2022 email as above, including HEs responses that Miss G 
should take advice. Target also said: It is [sic] has been a long standing rule of Homes 
England that they will not action SMI forms [] our managers had raised this in meetings 
previously with Homes England, but their stance remained unchanged. Target hasnt 
provided any minutes or documents relating to those meetings. As a responsible administrator, I dont consider that Target gave proper consideration to 
Miss Gs circumstances or the impact of its decision not to explain her situation to HE and 
set out what blocking her SMI claim would mean. I find nothing to indicate that it properly 
explained Miss Gs circumstances to HE or took them properly into account in its own 
treatment of her, or that it set out to HE what the consequences were of its refusal to 
complete the form, or what minimal impact an SMI loan would have on HEs security.
Its clear from listening to Miss Gs calls with Target that she was becoming increasingly 
desperate, frustrated, and very distressed. She had told Target in January 2022, before even 
starting her SMI application, that she suffers from mental health conditions which have a 
significant impact on her, and which I accept have been exacerbated by the stress and 
uncertainty of this situation and the way she has been treated. Miss G was left in limbo for 
many months with no way forward, spending hours on the phone to Target but getting 
nowhere and with promised callbacks not happening. She was clear with Target that the 
refusal to complete the form was putting her in a position where she may well lose her home 
and no-one would even tell her why. Im satisfied that Miss G has found this whole matter 
and the poor communication from Target extremely upsetting. 
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, I consider that compensation of £1,750 is fair and reasonable. To 
be clear, this isnt an award against HE, over which I have no jurisdiction, but is to reflect the 
serious and ongoing impact on Miss G of Targets poor handling of this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Target Servicing Limited to pay Miss 
G £1,750 within 28 days of the date we tell it Miss G has accepted this decision. 
If payment is not made within 28 days of the date we tell Target Miss G has accepted this 
decision  if she does  Target should also add simple annual interest of 8% running from 
the date of acceptance to date of payment. Target may deduct income tax from the 8% 
interest element of my award, if applicable, but should tell Miss G what it has deducted so 
she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if she is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman