DRN-3208134
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr L holds an account with Santander. In 2019, he was looking to invest, with the intention of 
gaining an income. He had watched a video on a social media website recommending 
investments with a specific trader. Mr L contacted this trader via a messaging platform and 
was persuaded to make an investment into cryptocurrency.
The trader advised Mr L to create an account with a cryptocurrency platform (which I will 
refer to as C). He was recommended an established company. Mr L accordingly set up an 
account (or wallet) in his name. He could then transfer funds to that account, and 
subsequently use those funds to purchase cryptocurrency.
On 30 August 2019, Mr L sent a payment of £1,499.83 by Faster Payments from his 
Santander account to his newly created account with C. 
Accessing his account with C, Mr L was then able to use the credit balance hed purchased 
to buy cryptocurrency. 
Mr L was then contacted by the trader and told he needed to send another £500, so he once 
again made a transfer from Santander to C, and then used made a purchase of 
cryptocurrency using his account with C.
A few weeks later, the trader told Mr L his investments were performing well. He was told 
hed need to pay a 15% charge on the profits hed made. This sum was to be £3,700. Mr L 
made a similar sequence of transfers as for the previous payments.
Just over a week after this, Mr L was told hed need to pay an annual tax fee of £5,500. He 
queried this, and was told it was because he was not a US citizen and the trades were being 
made in the US. The trader said his account would be placed on hold until this tax was paid. 
Mr L asked how it was calculated, but says the trader did not explain. Mr L made this further 
payment through the same sequence of transfers (from Santander, to C, then to 
cryptocurrency) on 30 September 2019.
A day later, the trader said Mr L should set up an account with a second cryptocurrency 
platform (which I will refer to as B). Mr L did so, and sent the trader his login credentials - 
believing the trader would need these to carry out the trades in the US.
However, it appears the trader may have taken over this new account, and while Mr L could 
still view the activity on the new account, he had no control over it and could not access any 
of the funds. The trader told him hed need to pay more money to access this, at which point 
Mr L realised this had been a scam. He reported his losses to Santander.
Santander explained it didnt think it was liable for the money Mr L had lost. It said Mr L had 
authorised the payment and so it hadnt been at fault in following his instructions. It pointed 
out that the account Mr L had initially transferred his funds to was one hed set up himself, in 
his own name, and that any losses had occurred afterwards - rather than when he made the 
transfers from his Santander account.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. Our 
investigator didnt think Santander needed to reimburse Mr L. Firstly, he said that because 
the payments Mr L was making from his Santander account were going to another account 
in Mr Ls own name and under his own control, Santander wasnt directly liable for what 
happened later  there had been an intervening act when Mr L had made the further 
transfers from C which resulted ultimately in the loss. Secondly, the investigator said that the 
payments werent sufficiently unusual or out of character for Mr Ls account that hed have 
expected Santander to block the requested payments or otherwise intervene. 
Mr L didnt accept this. He said that the bank didnt do enough to educate him about the 
scam risk. He thought that the payments hed sent should have been identified as unusual 
because his account with C was only newly created and hed therefore never made any prior 
payments to it. 
Because Mr L didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr L. I can understand entirely why he 
feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him, and why he does not accept what 
the investigator said about why Santander isnt responsible here.
Mr L has been the innocent victim of a crime and hes been left out of pocket by a significant 
sum as a result. Hes explained about the significant impact this has had on him. He details 
how he was cruelly deceived by a scammer he believed was going to invest his money. He 
wants Santander to compensate him for the lost money. But that loss resulted principally 
from the actions of a scammer. It also involved Mr L having interactions with other 
businesses after his transfers from Santander.
For me to say Santander specifically is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find 
that the bank could and should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to 
meet its obligations in some other way.
The exact point at which the loss Mr L suffered actually occurred is not unambiguous. The 
initial payments he made from Santander to C were to an account hed set up and controlled 
himself. The funds remained under his control at the point they were received in the account 
with C. When Mr L transferred the money out of his account with C, he was purchasing 
cryptocurrency, which in its nature is largely anonymous and untraceable. However, there was a final step, where Mr L appears to have been encouraged to ultimately transfer the 
cryptocurrency hed purchased to a new account with B and to divulge his security details for 
that further account.
Given the above, I have taken into consideration both possibilities  namely (1) that the loss 
occurred either at the point Mr L sent funds from his account with C to purchase 
cryptocurrency, or (2) at the point he set up the further account with B. But in a practical 
sense the complaint about Santander revolves around similar issues in either scenario.
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection against APP scams (the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). Santander is a signatory to this code. But it only 
applies to payments made directly to another person  payments made to a customers own 
accounts arent covered by the CRM Code. That means the CRM Code provisions arent 
relevant to Mr Ls complaint  his payment instruction was to send money from Santander to 
his own account with C.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this.
Ive first considered what Santander was obliged to do here. In broad terms, the starting 
position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And I must take that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer.
Regulated firms like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognized by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.So, in this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr L when he made four transfers from his Santander account to his new 
account with C over the course of approximately one month, or whether it should have done 
more than it did. 
Mr L accepts he authorised the transfers himself. Santander therefore had an obligation to 
follow his instructions. Nonetheless, as Ive noted above, there are some situations in which 
Santander should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding these 
transactions. I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive thought about what Santander could therefore reasonably have had knowledge of at the 
time these payments were made. Firstly, it doesnt appear that Mr L spoke to Santander at 
the time of making any of the payments here. 
Mr L argues that he was potentially vulnerable due to the impending end of his employment 
contract, but it doesnt appear Santander knew of this at the time. In the absence of any 
wider verbal interactions with the bank around these transactions I dont think it would be fair 
for me to find Santander at fault for not identifying this.
Ive also considered whether the transfers being made by Mr L were significantly out of 
character or unusual. This is often a finely balanced matter, and Santander has a difficult 
balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that 
might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. 
To decide this, Ive reviewed the typical pattern of Mr Ls account usage, by reviewing his 
account history in the months prior to the scam.
However, on balance, I cant fairly say that these transactions were so unusual or suspicious 
in comparison to Mr Ls normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Santander that 
Mr L was at significant risk of financial harm.
I say this because I can see that Mr L had made several other (legitimate) withdrawals over 
£1,000 in the six months before the scam. This included three withdrawals which appear to 
have been sent to another investment provider  a single payment of £20,000 followed a 
couple of weeks later by two payments of £1,000. These payments were made just over a 
month before the scam. 
While I note, as Mr L says, that some of the transfers he made during this time were to 
accounts or payees hed previously sent money to, that in itself isnt enough for me to 
conclude that the payments he was making to his new account with C should have 
particularly concerned Santander that he might be at risk of harm. This after all, would be 
how it would normally look where a customer sets up a new account or new investment, and 
not necessarily the sign of a scam or fraud. 
With that in mind, the first two payments, being £1,499.83 and £500 respectively, dont 
appear noticeably out of the ordinary relative to the other payments being made at the time. 
By the time Mr L made the further payments to his account with C, these were being made 
to a payee hed already sent money to twice, and some three weeks elapsed between the 
payments (similar to the gap between the legitimate investment payments hed sent the 
month before). And despite these later payments being slightly larger in value than the 
earlier two payments, they were still small relative to the prior legitimate payment hed made.
Overall, the payments Mr L made to his account with C simply dont look significantly 
unusual or out of character to me. The amounts involved do not stand out. Rather these payments were broadly in line with what appears to have been his account usage at that 
time.
As a result, I simply dont think Santander was wrong to allow Mr L to make these 
transactions without questioning him about them. There wasnt enough about these 
transactions to make me think Santander should have suspected Mr L might be about to fall 
victim to a fraud.
Mr L says Santander should have done more to educate him about scam risks. Ive thought 
about this point and whether it changes what I think about the outcome here.
Im aware that Santander, alongside most UK banks, has undertaken generic scam 
education over recent years including as part of the industrys take five campaign. 
Santander also makes scam information available on its website. 
It says that when Mr L made each payment he was asked to select a payment reason, which 
in turn generated a scam warning message relevant to investment scams. As Ive set out 
above, I dont think Mr Ls payments to his new account with C ought to have stood out to 
Santander to the extent it should have had serious concerns about him being the victim of 
financial harm. I am satisfied it did enough here and it was obliged to make the payments he 
requested to the account hed opened with another provider.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ls complaint about Santander. 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr L, but ultimately the loss he suffered 
here was due to the actions of the scammer (or scammers) and I cant fairly say that 
Santander is responsible for what happened. It follows that I cant fairly say Santander is 
liable to reimburse him with the money he unfortunately lost.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr L and 
I am sorry he has lost out. He was the victim of a crime and something that was a cruel 
scam carefully designed to defraud him of his money. I appreciate this is a lot of money for 
him to have lost and the impact all of this has had for him. But in all of the circumstances, I 
cant fairly say Santander is liable for what happened or should reasonably have prevented 
it. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require Santander to refund Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman