DRN-3045127
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) dealt with the 
settlement of his finance agreement after the car he acquired under this agreement was 
maliciously damaged. He is also unhappy about the support he received from Oodle when 
he found himself in financial difficulties.  
What happened
In mid-January 2020, Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle to acquire a 
car first registered in February 2013. The total amount of credit was around £5,424. The total 
amount payable was approximately £8,236, this included a total charge for credit of around 
£2,812. Mr A didnt provide an advance payment. He was required to pay the balance by 
one instalment of approximately £186 followed by 58 instalments, each in the sum of around 
£136, followed by a final instalment (including the Option to Purchase Fee of £50) in the sum 
of around £186. 
On 9 February 2020 the car was maliciously damaged to the extent that it was written off. On 
10 February 2020, Mr A informed Oodle about this and explained that his insurance was 
investigating the matter. On the same day Oodle emailed Mr A to inform him that the 
settlement figure of his finance agreement was approximately £5,691.  
Mr A didnt make any payments towards his finance agreement, and in mid-February 2020, 
Oodle contacted Mr A to inform him that his account was in arrears. On 15 February 2020, 
Oodle agreed for Mr As account to be placed on short hold as he awaited an update from 
his insurance company. But on 11 March 2020, Mr A told Oodle that he would not be making 
any payments until his insurance paid out. So Oodle resumed sending notices and 
reminders of the arrears on his finance agreement and resumed seeking payments from Mr 
A.
Mr A is unhappy that even though he kept Oodle informed that he was waiting for the 
settlement money from his insurance, they still kept sending him notices and reminders of 
the arrears on his finance agreement, and kept seeking payments from him. Also Mr A said 
that it was because of these constant reminders, that he decided to give Oodle access to 
communicate with his insurance company, but he said that this was on condition that he will 
always be kept informed of all the communications between the two companies. It was on 3 
April 2020, that Mr A gave authority for Oodle to discuss his claim with his insurance 
company. 
On 8 April 2020, Oodle once again reminded Mr A that he needed to be making payments 
towards his finance agreement as he awaited the response from his insurance company. 
During this conversation Mr A told Oodle that he was struggling to make his payments as he 
was not working, so they discussed payment arrangements, but they never reached an 
agreement. And about two weeks later Oodle instructed their solicitors to manage the 
account. The arrears at the time were around £457.  
Mr A says that in August 2020, he found out that his insurance provider would be settling the 
insurance claim, so he called Oodle to notify them, and he requested that given the 
circumstances of the incident, Oodle should write off the interest on his finance agreement. 
He said that he requested this as, at the time, he found himself in financial hardship because 
of the arson attack, but he said Oodle refused to provide him with this support. He is also 
unhappy because, he said, they wouldnt update information with the credit reference 
agencies to reflect the arson of his car as an explanation for the missing payments showing 
on his credit file. 
Mr A was unhappy that he couldnt reach any arrangements with Oodle, which he said he 
found unfair, and he said he decided to tell Oodle not to talk to his insurance company any 
longer. So, he said, it came as a big shock to him when he received an email from Oodle 
telling him they have received a pay-out of around £4,310 from his insurance company. Mr A 
feels that by Oodle communicating with the insurance company made it more difficult for him 
to achieve a fair settlement figure for his car with his insurance company. He said he 
believes the car was worth more than the insurance company decided to pay out. 
As Mr A was unhappy with Oodles actions he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She was of the opinion that, as 
Oodle was the legal owner of the car, they havent breached the agreement Mr A had with 
them. She also thought that Oodle didnt treat Mr A unfairly as they tried to reach an 
agreeable repayment plan with him. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mr A and Oodle that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr A acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
Oodles communications with Mr As insurance company 
One of Mr As main complaint points is that due to Oodle communicating with his insurance 
company, he received a smaller settlement amount than he feels was fair. He said he 
decided to tell Oodle not to talk to his insurance company any longer. So, he said, it came as 
big shock to him when he received an email from Oodle telling him they had received a pay-
out of around £4,310 from his insurance company. 
Mr As finance agreement with Oodle says that:We will remain the owner of the vehicle throughout the agreement. You will only 
become owner of the vehicle at the end of the agreement if you have paid all the 
repayments owed to us under the agreement and exercised the option to purchase 
by paying the option to purchase fee.
The finance agreement also says that:
You authorise us to negotiate and settle any claim with the insurer, and to receive 
any moneys from the insurer under the policy. You may not withdraw this authority 
and you agree to accept any settlement we may reach with the insurer. You will still 
need to pay us any outstanding balance under this agreement. d) Unless we end this 
agreement pursuant to clause 13, this agreement will continue even if the Vehicle is 
lost or damaged. 
So, based on the contract Mr A had with Oodle, they were entitled to the proceeds of the 
insurance money, and they were within their rights to deal with Mr As insurance company. 
So, I cant say that Oodle acted unreasonably when they used the funds from the insurance 
company to settle part of Mr As liability on his finance agreement with them. I understand 
that Mr A remains unhappy about the settlement amount his car insurance paid out, but that 
is not something I can hold Oodle responsible for. 
Mr A feels that he lost his bargaining power when Oodle accepted the funds from his 
insurance company, but Oodle was not actively negotiating with Mr As insurance company. 
And from Oodles contact notes I can see that Mr A had an open complaint with his 
insurance company in regards to the settlement amount, so I cant fairly say that he lost his 
bargaining power just because Oodle received the funds from his insurance company.
Mr A also questioned why the settlement figure from Oodle changed from around £5,691 in 
February 2020 to approximately £6,124 in August 2020. Oodle explained that the difference 
is that no payments were made during the approximate six months, between the two 
settlement figures being generated, and during this period interest also accrued. I think this 
is a reasonable explanation.   
Support received from Oodle when Mr A told them that he is struggling to make payments
Ive considered the question of whether Oodle has done enough to support Mr A, when he 
told them that he was experiencing financial hardship. When doing so, Ive thought about the 
relevant rules and guidance at the time. The rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to 
customers and consumers, and I will be using these words interchangeably, but in this 
decision the words are to have the same meaning.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), says that 
firms should consider consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as 
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time.
I can see that Mr A didnt make any payments towards his finance agreement, and in mid-
February 2020, Oodle made contact with Mr A to inform him that his account was in arrears. 
But they did provide him with support by agreeing to place his account on hold as he waited 
for an update from his insurance company. This lasted until 11 March 2020, when Mr A told 
Oodle that he would not be making any payments until his insurance paid out. So, I think it was fair that Oodle resumed sending notices and reminders of the arrears on his finance 
agreement and resumed seeking payments from Mr A. I say this because as per the finance 
agreement, Mr A was still liable to continue to make payments even if the car was damaged. 
On 8 April 2020, Oodle once again reminded Mr A that he needed to be making payments 
towards his finance agreement as he awaited the response from his insurance company. But 
Ive considered that during this conversation Mr A told Oodle that he was struggling to make 
his payments as he was not working. From the contact notes provided by Oodle, I can see 
that Mr A offered to make payments of £30 a month. But during this call, Oodle told him that 
the minimum he would need to make was £60. He said he couldnt afford this amount and 
asked them to put the account on hold. Oodle said they couldnt do that, and they told him 
that they would be passing his account to their solicitors to manage. The solicitors, on behalf 
of Oodle, tried to contact Mr A on various occasions by phone and email without success, so 
on 13 May 2020 they sent a default letter to Mr A. 
The solicitors finally managed to contact Mr A on 14 May 2020. During that conversation Mr 
A explained that he was working, but that he was only paid for days he worked so he doesnt 
get paid for school holidays and bank holidays. Mr A again offered to pay £30, so 
considering his situation the solicitors asked him to complete an income and expenditure 
form. On 6 June 2020, I can see from the contact notes that the solicitors again spoke with 
Mr A. They discussed his income and expenditure form which outlined that Mr A was in 
deficit by £1,900 and that he was behind with several of his bills. Mr A offered to make 
payments of £60, but the solicitors said they didnt think this was reasonable as Mr A was in 
a deficit. Instead they said they would give him 30 days breathing space, so that he can seek 
financial advice. From the notes I can see that on 23 July 2020, Mr A contacted Oodle to 
discuss the settlement that the insurance was about to make. Mr A queried what would 
happen with the shortfall and he was told that he could either maintain his payments and 
address any arrears, or they could extend the term of the finance agreement so that he had 
a more affordable payment plan. So, Ive considered all of the above and I cant say that 
Oodle or their solicitors treated Mr A unfairly. I think they treated him with forbearance and 
due consideration. Mr A on a few occasions was provided with breathing space, and they did 
try to come to a payment arrangement with him. They were also willing to offer Mr A an 
affordable payment plan. 
Ive also considered the additional guidance that The FCA published on 24 April 2020 
Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance 
introduced temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by 
Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6 (A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly). The guidance states that Where a customer was in pre-
existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC would 
continue to apply.. It also states that This guidance sets out our expectation that firms 
provide, for a temporary period only, exceptional and immediate support to customers facing 
payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus.. Mr A didnt make any 
monthly payments towards his agreement which started in January 2020. The guidance 
came into effect after Mr A told Oodle that he was experiencing financial hardship, and he 
was already in pre-existing financial difficulty. Also, Ive not seen any evidence that would 
allow me to conclude that most likely he was facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. So, I think most likely this guidance didnt apply to 
Mr As circumstances.
Also, I understand that Mr A is unhappy because he said Oodle wouldnt update information 
with the credit reference agencies to reflect the arson of his car as an explanation for the 
missing payments showing on his credit file. But Oodle is required to report a customers 
true repayment history. And if Mr A would like to add an explanation to his credit file, he 
potentially can request the credit agency to add a notice of correction.I sympathise with Mr A for the difficulties that he is experiencing but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think overall that Mr A has been treated 
unfairly. I think he should contact Oodle and/or their solicitors, and I think it would be 
reasonable for them to arrange a repayment plan together that works for all parties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman