DRN-3402277
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited (Hyundai) charged an incorrect amount at 
the end of her finance agreement. 
What happened
In March 2018 Mrs H acquired a new car through a hire agreement. The agreement was due 
to run for 48 months, but Mrs H asked to end it early in February 2021. 
The vehicle was collected in April 2021 and, following an inspection, Hyundai sent Mrs H an 
invoice for end of contract charges, as follows: 
C post scratched through paint up to 25mm - £100
Boot dent - £50
Poor repairs to a rear door - £175
Missing key - £350
Two non-franchise service stamps - £240
Mrs H complained to Hyundai about the charges in April 2021. She said the vehicle had 
been repaired prior to being returned, so she didnt agree with the charges for damage. Mrs 
H also said she was only given one set of keys when she collected the car, and she was told 
that she could service the car abroad so these charges should also be removed. 
Hyundai sent Mrs H their final response to her complaint in May 2021. They said the 
damage to the boot and rear door werent clear in the photos provided, so these charges 
were removed. They said the damage to the C post was clear, the signed delivery note 
showed that two keys were received, and the agreement set out the charge if the vehicle 
wasnt serviced at a franchised dealer, so these charges remained payable.
Unhappy with this, Mrs H brought her complaint to us for investigation. She said shed 
serviced the car on advice from Hyundai so this charge should be removed. She also said 
that although she signed the paperwork for the key it wasnt given to her. Mrs H said she had 
damage to the car repaired before it was returned, and the photos werent clear, so the 
charge for the scratch should be removed. 
Our investigator gave her view that the scratch was clear in the photos and the agreement 
allowed Hyundai to charge for it, the charge for the missing key was fair as Mrs H had 
signed to say she received both keys, and as there was no evidence of Mrs H calling 
Hyundai about the service, she thought this charge was fair as well. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said when she collected the car the paperwork was already 
completed, and the handover was rushed because of the weather. Mrs H said she wouldnt 
have paid for two services abroad if shed been told shed also be charged for them when 
handing the vehicle back, and she said the damage being charged for couldve been caused 
by the collection agent. Mrs H said Hyundai didnt record her contacting them about the key, 
or about the services, and she shouldnt be responsible for this. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mrs H was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Damage charges
Mrs H signed a hire agreement in March 2018. The terms of the agreement set out that the 
vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in good condition, and in line with the 
return conditions, beyond which it allows Hyundai to charge for the costs of either repairing 
and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of 
the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mrs H was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by Hyundai are fair and reasonable.  
Along with the return conditions set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for Hyundai to charge on return of the car.
Hyundai already agreed to remove the charges for the boot dent and poor repair to a rear 
door, so Ive considered the remaining charge for the scratch to the C post.  
The hire agreement sets out in the return conditions that any scratch which penetrates the 
primer coat is abnormal wear and tear. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that 
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable, provided they can be polished out. 
Ive seen the photo provided by Hyundai of the C post, and it's clear there is a deep scratch 
on the vehicle through the primer. 
Mrs H said the scratch mightve been caused by the agent that inspected the vehicle for 
Hyundai. The photos were taken at the address the car was collected from and prior to it 
being moved by the agent. Im satisfied that the damage is most likely to have happened 
whilst the car was in Mrs Hs possession and prior to it being returned. 
So, Im satisfied that the charge of £100 for repair of this scratch has been fairly applied.
Missing key chargeHyundai have charged Mrs H £350 for a missing spare key. They say the paperwork Mrs H 
signed when she collected the vehicle confirms that she received this spare key, and it 
wasnt returned upon collection of the vehicle. 
Mrs H said she signed the paperwork without reading it and wasnt given a second key. She 
said she tried to contact the dealership a couple of times about the key after shed collected 
the vehicle, but she received no response and then forgot about it. 
The evidence here is contradictory, but I havent seen anything which persuades me that 
Hyundai have done something wrong in charging Mrs H for the missing spare key. 
The document that Mrs H signed when she collected the car confirms that she was provided 
with two keys, and I havent seen any evidence of her contact with the dealership after the 
vehicle was collected.
The agreement sets out in the return conditions that any missing part is abnormal. The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that a full set of keys, including the spares and 
locking wheel nut keys, should be returned if originally supplied. So, Im satisfied that the 
£350 charge for the missing key has been fairly applied. 
Charge for servicing 
Hyundai have charged Mrs H £240 for two non-franchise stamps in the service book. 
Mrs H said that she called Hyundai before the first service was due around February 2020, 
and they told her it could be serviced abroad. Mrs H said that she wouldnt have paid for the 
services overseas if shed known shed be charged for them upon return of the vehicle. 
Ive listened to the call between Hyundai and Mrs H in January 2020, where the upcoming 
service was discussed. Mrs H enquired as to whether this could be completed overseas, and 
it was confirmed that it could be, provided that it was a Hyundai garage and the service book 
was stamped.  
Mrs H said she didnt recall being told the service had to be completed at a Hyundai 
dealership, however there were no parts required, so there was no detriment to the service 
being completed overseas. Mrs H said the car has been serviced, and this should be taken 
into consideration. 
The agreement says under section six: your servicing and maintenance obligations: 
6.1 If servicing and maintenance have not been chosen from the servicing and maintenance 
schedule you will pay for any servicing, repairs, maintenance, or replacement parts that are 
needed for any reason. When servicing or any other work needs to be carried out on the 
vehicle, you will at your cost, take the vehicle to a franchised dealer 
6.3 the vehicle must be serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommended 
service intervals, using genuine parts, at a franchised dealer. If you do not meet this 
obligation, you may be liable to pay a fee of £100 plus VAT for each service interval which 
was not undertaken by a franchised dealer. 
I appreciate that Mrs H says she wouldnt have paid for the service overseas if shed known 
shed be charged for it again when she returned the vehicle. But Im satisfied that Hyundai 
provided the agreement to Mrs H in good time, that it clearly set out the requirements for 
servicing the vehicle and that correct information was given to Mrs H when she queried the 
service over the phone. Whilst a service has been completed, a non-franchise stamp can have an effect on the 
resale value of the vehicle. All things considered; Im satisfied that the charge of £240 for the 
two non-franchise services has been fairly applied. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman