DRN-2915336
The complaint
Miss C complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
L2G approved Miss C for a £1,000 loan in December 2019. The loan was to be repaid over 
18 months with repayments of approximately £230. 
Miss C says this loan was irresponsibly lent to her. She says L2G did not completed 
sufficient checks prior to lending to her. She says had it done so it wouldve realised she was 
struggling financially and already had a high level of existing debt, and therefore could not 
afford the repayments. 
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.
Miss C and L2G are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and 
unaffordable lending complaints; so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the 
detail here. But Ive considered if L2G completed proportionate checks and if it made 
a fair decision to lend. Ive also considered if it acted unfairly in any other way.
All parties accept that L2G completed proportionate checks. And having reviewed the
information provided Im currently minded to say I do too. The value of the loan was
relatively low (albeit it the interest and APR were significant); and as such the checks
needed to proportionate to it. L2G searched Miss Cs credit report; and completed an
affordability assessment. It also verified Miss Cs income via a third party online tool.
These checks demonstrated that Miss Cs income was around £1,550 per month 
(this number had been reduced from her declared number following the online 
verification); and that she had some existing credit commitments. Miss C was utilising 
her overdraft and had four existing credit cards. The file also showed that whilst Miss 
C had previously had issues managing credit, her active accounts had been 
managed well in recent months. L2G also took details of Miss Cs non-credit 
commitments such as travel costs.
So, considering L2G had a good insight into Miss Cs finances; and it was able to
understand her existing credit commitments, Im satisfied the checks were 
proportionate in this instance.
As an aside, Miss C has provided our service with copies of her bank statements in 
the period leading up to the loan being taken. These show that Miss C did have other 
credit commitments which did not show on Miss Cs credit file when L2G completed 
its checks. I should explain that L2G is entitled to rely on the information that it 
gathered at the time unless there is evidence which demonstrates it was 
unreasonable to do so.  Ive seen the results of the credit file which L2G completed 
and Im satisfied it did not show some of the other forms of credit Miss C had at the 
time. Looking at the application and the contact notes; Ive not seen any information 
which demonstrates that L2G had any reason to doubt the information which it was 
presented with. So on that basis Im satisfied it was entitled to proceed on the 
information it saw. And for the reason Ive explained above; Im satisfied these 
checks were proportionate.
Since Im satisfied L2G completed proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider if 
L2G made a fair decision to lend. And based on the information Ive currently seen 
Im minded to say it did.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld as they thought Miss C 
would not have sufficient disposable income to meet the necessary repayments. L2G 
disagreed with this; and suggested that Miss C would have had sufficient disposable 
income. Having reviewed the information, Im currently minded to agree with it.
As stated above L2G verified Miss Cs declared income of £1,600 via a third party 
online tool; and after this reduced the amount to around £1,540. It asked Miss C 
about her non-credit commitments and she declared that she lived with family and 
didnt pay rent. It took details of her other expenses such as travel. It then calculated 
her monthly repayments based on the credit commitments seen in the credit report; 
and applied a further reduction to take into account any changes to Miss Cs 
outgoings of 10%. After including the payment for this loan in her outgoings, L2Gs 
calculation suggested that Miss C would have around £160 disposable income left 
each month.
Considering what Miss C told L2G about her finances there was no information which
contradicted the assumptions L2G had made; and as such based on this information 
the loan appeared affordable. Based on that Im unable to agree the loan was 
unaffordable to Miss C.
Finally Ive not seen any information which demonstrates L2G acted unfairly in any 
other way towards Miss C. I accept this loan carried a significant interest rate and 
APR, and in some circumstances this could be deemed as being unfair on the 
borrower (for example refinancing an existing L2G with a lower rate). However as this 
was the first loan Miss C was taking with L2G, Im unable to say this alone was 
harmful or unfair to her.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information or comments they wished to 
make. L2G responded accepting the decision and provided no further information. Miss C 
did not respond to the provisional decision within the relevant time frame.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party provided any further information for me to consider, Im satisfied that the 
findings made in my provisional decision should remain. That is to say I do not uphold this 
complaint.
This is for the reasons outlined above; namely that Im satisfied L2G completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks in this instance and that it subsequently made a fair decision to 
lend. The information which L2G gathered at the time demonstrated the loan was likely 
affordable to Miss C. In the absence of any further information I see no reason to change 
from this outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman