DRN-3991865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that AWP P&C SA has declined a claim made under their travel 
insurance policy for a cancelled holiday. 
Mr and Mrs D are being represented in this complaint and submissions have been made on 
their behalf. However, for ease, Ive referred to them throughout. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of a bank account (the 
policy). In November 2021, they booked a holiday abroad for a number of weeks, starting 
early December 2021.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs D had to cancel their holiday as, before they were due to travel, 
Mrs D was diagnosed with breast cancer. She was advised by her medical team not to travel 
as she was scheduled to have surgery. 
Mr and Mrs D made a claim under the policy to cover the costs of their holiday. The claim 
was declined by AWP; it concluded that Mrs D had symptoms prior to the holiday being 
booked. Unhappy with the decision, Mr and Mrs D complained to AWP. And when they didnt 
receive a response, they complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. They disagreed so their complaint 
has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
The policy does provide cover for cancellation due to illness, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy - including any exclusions.
The policy doesnt cover cancellation claims relating to any undiagnosed pre-existing 
medical conditions. Ill refer to this as pre-existing medical condition exclusion.
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which you have experienced symptoms, consulted a 
doctor or been diagnosed withwhen renewing your medical screening declaration 
on the health check date.
Relevant to this complaint, under the policy, health check date means before booking a trip if 
your health has changed - which includes having developed a new medical condition.
I know Mr and Mrs D will very disappointed, but I dont think AWP has unfairly relied on the 
pre-existing medical condition exclusion to decline the claim.
The GP medical certificate completed in February 2022 reflects that the medical condition 
which gave rise to the claim was breast cancer and that the first onset of symptoms for this 
condition was in October 2021  so before the holiday was booked. 
I know that Mrs D wasnt diagnosed with breast cancer until after the holiday was booked 
and she says most breast lumps arent cancerous and can be benign or a build-up of fluid. 
So, a referral to a breast clinic isnt a firm indication of breast cancer.
However, the pre-existing medical condition exclusion is clear that the policy doesnt cover 
claims relating to undiagnosed conditions, so long as symptoms are experienced before the 
health check date. 
I dont think AWP has unreasonably relied on the medical evidence to conclude that Mrs D 
had experienced symptoms of breast cancer before the holiday was booked. 
I know Mr and Mrs D say that the policy included a medical endorsement which stated that if 
Mrs D developed a new medical condition whilst the endorsement was active, she neednt 
contact AWP. However, AWP hasnt declined the claim on the basis that Mrs D didnt 
declare a change in health. Mr and Mrs Ds claim was declined because the reason for 
cancelling their trip related to a pre-existing medical condition. 
I appreciate that Mrs D was advised not to travel so says wouldnt have been covered under 
the policy, if shed decided to still go abroad. But for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied 
AWP has fairly and reasonably relied on the other policy terms to decline the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman