DRN-4427842
The complaint
Mr S complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has unfairly settled a third-
partys claim on his car insurance policy as a fault claim.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a road traffic collision which caused damage to a third-partys car. The 
third-party made a claim on Mr Ss car insurance policy, which Haven accepted and then 
settled as a fault claim.
Mr S says Haven shouldnt have done this. He says he was parking his car when the third-
partys car hit his, so the claim shouldve been settled as non-fault. Mr S says Haven has 
no evidence  such as CCTV footage  to show the third partys version of events is true.
When Haven didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint about its decision, he brought it to us. The 
investigator who looked at Mr Ss complaint didnt think Havens decision was unreasonable 
and so didnt think Haven needed to take any action.
Mr S disagrees, maintaining Haven has no evidence to support its decision to settle liability 
on a fault basis. So Mr Ss complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by saying my role isnt to decide who caused the road traffic collision Mr S and 
the third party were involved in  thats a matter for the courts. Instead, its to decide if Haven 
has acted fairly and reasonably in how its recorded the claim, based on Mr Ss policy terms 
and the evidence it has.
Mr Ss policy says Haven can take over any third-party claim against Mr S and conduct its 
defence or settlement in his name. This gives Haven the contractual right to settle the third-
partys claim as it chooses. But, as Ive said, Haven must act fairly and reasonably, based on 
the available evidence, in making its decision. 
Haven says it contacted Mr S to get his version of events leading up to the collision, which 
was broadly as Ive described above  Mr S says he was parking his car when the third 
partys car hit his. Haven noted Mr Ss version of events was different to the third partys, 
which was that Mr S hit the third partys stationary car while driving at speed the wrong way 
down a one-way street. 
Haven says it then asked the third-partys insurer for evidence to support its version of 
events. Haven was given a signed statement from an independent witness that said Mr S 
was driving the wrong way down a one-way street when the collision happened. 
Haven says it also asked Mr S for any other evidence he had to support his version of 
events but he didnt give it anything that assisted with his defence. 
From claim notes its sent us, I can see Haven also reviewed some photos Mr S took 
immediately after the collision. The notes say, based on these and a review of an online map 
of the area where the collision happened, it seemed Mr S entered the bottom part of the 
street, which Haven says is clearly one way. The notes also say one photo shows Mr Ss car 
parked to the left pointing down the street with the one-way arrow visible.
Haven says it couldnt indefinitely dispute liability when there was evidence supporting the 
third partys version of events. Haven says it considered the outcome of potential litigation 
which it concluded was highly unfavourable in Mr Ss case, given our lack of evidence and 
their [ie the third partys] supporting evidence. Because of this, Haven recorded the claim as 
a fault claim.
I know Mr S strongly believes he wasnt at fault for the collision and that the third partys 
version of events isnt true. He says his photos are persuasive proof he wasnt at fault. And 
he says theres no CCTV or other footage showing him driving the wrong way down the one-
way street, which he thinks should be imperative to his case. 
I dont think its imperative for Haven to have CCTV footage to record the claim as a fault 
claim  road traffic collisions arent always caught on CCTV and Haven can only be 
expected to make its decision based on the evidence it has. And I dont think Mr Ss photos 
 which, of course, were taken after the collision and one of which, to me, seems to show his 
car pointing in the wrong way  are persuasive proof of his version of events.
From what Ive seen, I think Haven considered all the evidence it had  that is, Mr Ss 
version of events, the third partys differing version of events and the signed independent 
witness statement supporting the third partys version  as part of its decision on liability. I 
think Haven then made the pragmatic decision, based on its assessment of this evidence, to 
record the claim as a fault claim because of the likelihood of a highly unfavourable 
outcome if the case went to court. I dont think the approach Haven has taken here was 
unsound or contrary to the evidence and I think it was in line with Mr Ss policy terms. That 
means I dont think Haven has treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably in deciding liability on a 
fault basis.
Ive already mentioned that my role isnt to decide who caused the collision. I should also 
say that, by recording a fault claim, Haven wasnt necessarily saying Mr S was responsible, 
or to blame, for the collision. A claim will be recorded in this way if, for example, an insurer 
cant recover all its costs in connection with a road traffic collision. And thats what I think has 
happened here.
Ive considered all the other comments Mr S has made as part of his complaint but they dont 
change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jane GallacherOmbudsman