DRN-3106120
The complaint
Mr G complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) acted irresponsibly when they 
increased his credit card limit with them on multiple occasions. He said that it shouldve been 
clear he was in a poor cycle of debt.
What happened
Mr G applied to Aqua for a credit card on 8 April 2016. Aqua assessed his application 
against their lending criteria and agreed to provide a credit card account with an initial limit of 
£900.
Aqua wrote to Mr G on 10 August 2016. They said theyd looked at how he managed his 
credit card and believed that a new limit of £2,100 was suitable for him. They told Mr G that 
the new limit would be made available no later than 40 days from the date of their letter. 
They provided options to accept the new limit sooner or tell them if he didnt want the limit 
increasing. The new limit was applied on 15 August 2016.
Aqua wrote to Mr G again on 20 January 2017. Again, they said theyd looked at how he 
managed his credit card and believed that a new limit of £2,700 was now suitable for him. 
They told Mr G that the new limit would be made available no later than 40 days from the 
date of their letter. They provided options to accept the new limit sooner or tell them if he 
didnt want the limit increasing. The new limit was applied on 27 January 2017.
Mr G stopped making payments to his Aqua credit card account in August 2017. Due to the 
length of time Mr Gs account was then in arrears, Aqua sold his account to a debt collection 
company on 30 November 2017.
On 15 March 2021, Mr G complained to Aqua. He said that the credit card account theyd 
provided caused him financial difficulty. He said that Aqua shouldnt have increased his limit 
when they did. He believed hed shown poor use of credit with multiple payday loan markers 
and catalogue debts on his credit file. He wanted Aqua to refund the interest and charges 
plus statutory interest. He also wanted them to remove any adverse information from his 
credit file.
Aqua responded to Mr Gs complaint on 14 April 2021. They explained how theyd assessed 
his application and the subsequent limit increases. Aqua didnt agree theyd acted 
irresponsibly. 
Mr G didnt agree with Aquas findings. So, he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. She believed that Aquas original decision to 
lend was fair. But agreed that Aqua had acted irresponsibly when increasing Mr Gs limit 
twice. She said that Mr G had outstanding payday loans which shouldve prompted them to 
complete further checks and tests. She thought Aqua should refund all interest and charges 
resulting from the limit increases and write off any balance owed above the original limit. She 
also thought that if the refunds resulted in a credit balance, Aqua should pay 8% simple 
interest on that amount.
Aqua didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said that the other debts on Mr Gs 
credit file were not shown as payday loans. They said that the credit reference information 
didnt report anything negative about Mr Gs history. So, they asked that Mr Gs complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 30 September 2021  giving both Mrs G and Aqua the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below, before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mr G hasnt complained about Aquas original decision to give him a credit card 
account. So, for the purpose of this complaint, I havent looked at the original credit 
assessment. My focus has been on Aquas decisions to increase Mr Gs credit limit.
Before increasing Mr Gs credit limit, Aqua needed to complete an assessment of Mr 
Gs credit worthiness. The guidelines for this are set out in CONC 5.2A of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. In particular, they needed to consider 
information they already had about Mr G. Also, his ability to make repayments and 
any information available from the credit reference agencies. They shouldve also 
considered either:
the customers income and financial commitments,
how theyve handled their finances in the past or
use internal credit scoring techniques.
The guidelines also say that there are circumstances when a limit increase shouldnt 
be offered. These include:
evidence of arrears, 
excesses of the credit limit, 
involvement of a debt advice agency, 
refusal of an increase by the customer and 
where the customer is at risk of financial difficulties.
Aqua have provided full details and explanations of the credit assessments they 
completed. These assessments include information they already held and also 
obtained from credit reference agencies. In particular, Mr Gs credit and payment 
history. They used affordability and indebtedness information provided by credit 
bureaus to assist with their assessment. I understand these models consider existing 
financial commitments and outstanding debts. Im also aware that they are widely 
used across the industry as recognised models to assess indebtedness and 
affordability to meet the requirements set out in CONC.
Ive looked at the information provided by Aqua. Mr Gs original application shows his 
income and existing borrowings. The credit bureau information provided to Aqua 
doesnt evidence any defaults or similar adverse information reported between April 
2016 and January 2017, when the second limit increase was made. Late payments 
of up to 1 month were reported in May, August and October 2016 although these 
appear to have been addressed by Mr G. Two payday loans were opened in October 
2016 but there was no other evidence of such loans or any subsequent late 
payments or defaults. The information also suggests that Mr G substantially reduced 
his borrowings in November 2016.
Mr G incurred one late payment fee from Aqua in July 2016. Aquas file notes show 
that Mr G had contacted them as hed forgotten to make a payment. He made the 
payment and set up a direct debit to ensure this didnt happen again. Before and 
after that, there was no suggestion that Mr G had any financial difficulties. Mr G 
continued to make minimum payments when they were due until August 2017.
Mr G told this service that his debts were as a result of a gambling issue he was 
experiencing. Im sorry to hear that Mr G had problems of this nature. I appreciate that this wouldve been very difficult for him. But I cant see that Aqua were made 
aware of this at any time. Having reviewed Mr Gs credit card statements, I also 
havent seen anything that would suggest this to Aqua. So, I dont believe that Aqua 
wouldve been reasonably aware of Mr Gs problems here.
Mr G told this service that he was regularly taking on multiple payday loans which are 
shown on his credit report. I asked Mr G to provide this service with a copy of his 
credit report. Ive reviewed its content and see that Mr G had a history of multiple 
credit facilities. Ive considered those debts reported before Aquas original 
agreement and limit increases. The credit report shows that all of these were 
managed without difficulty. The first adverse entry (a late payment) is reported in 
January 2017. I understand that it normally takes 30-45 days for a credit file entry to 
be reported, so wouldnt have been reported to Aqua immediately.
So, having reviewed the information provided by Aqua together with Mr Gs credit 
report, I cant reasonably conclude that there was anything adverse reported that 
would give Aqua cause to complete further checks and tests here. While Mr G had a 
history of regularly using credit, his credit file suggests that he was managing these 
without difficulty or cause for concern.
When Aqua offered to increase Mr Gs limit, they gave him the opportunity to refuse 
the increase or request it immediately. Alternatively, they would apply the new limit 
within 40 days. In both cases, the new limit was applied within no more than seven 
days of offer. I think it appears that Mr G may have proactively contacted Aqua, each 
time, to accept the new limit.
I realise that Mr G will be disappointed. But having reviewed all the evidence 
available, I dont agree with our investigator here. I believe that the checks and tests 
completed by Aqua, before increasing Mr Gs limit, were proportionate based upon 
the information available to them. I havent seen anything that may have suggested 
they should consider further checks. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr G 
had informed Aqua that he was experiencing financial difficulties prior to the 
increases.
On balance, I cant reasonably conclude that Aqua did anything wrong or treated Mr 
G unfairly here. So, I dont propose to ask Aqua to do anything more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Aqua responded and confirmed they had nothing further to add.
Mr G confirmed again that at the times Aqua increased his limit, he was using multiple credit 
facilities over a short space of time. He confirmed hed taken multiple loans totalling £7,000 
within a five-month period although some of these no longer show on his credit file.
Mr G also said that his earnings meant a high proportion of his income was being used to 
manage the credit he had. He said that he was regularly cycling through different lenders 
and loans. He believes that his credit file shows that he was taking multiples loans, some at 
much higher rates. Mr G has provided specific details of different loans, their terms and their 
repayments. He has suggested that none of this was considered by Aqua and no 
reassessment of his monthly income and expenditure was completed.
Aqua previously explained that they are an online lender. As a result, they use automated 
scoring systems together with information reported by credit reference agencies in order to assess the appropriateness of the limits they offer. They believe that the assessments they 
undertook complied with the requirements of CONC 5.2A. I explained those requirements in 
my provisional decision. 
Aqua have demonstrated they considered how Mr G handled his finances previously and 
used internal scoring techniques. This meets the CONC requirements. Ive also seen the 
data provided to Aqua by the credit reference agencies. Its important to recognise that this 
information wouldnt necessarily be as detailed as the personal report later obtained by Mr 
G. 
From the information provided to Aqua, I cant see any suggestion that Mr G was 
experiencing problems, sufficient to prompt further tests and checks. Its also relevant that 
Mr G didnt volunteer any of this information to Aqua at the time.
Ive considered Mr Gs response to my provisional decision. While appreciating hell be 
disappointed, Ive not seen anything that persuades me to change my mind here. Much of 
what Mr G has provided and explained to this service is information that wouldnt necessarily 
have been provided to Aqua at the time. So, while I realise that Mr G may disagree, I cant 
reasonably say that Aqua shouldve done anything different here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman