DRN-1994109
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
Miss M opened a credit card account with Lloyds and at the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to protect her repayments. A successful claim on the policy would have covered her 
repayments for periods of time if she lost her job or if she was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness and it also provided life cover to clear the balance in the event of her 
death.
When Miss M complained to Lloyds that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. Lloyds also 
considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on the premiums 
and has offered a refund for the excess commission that was paid.
Miss M wasnt happy with what Lloyds had said so brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint and I shall explain why.
Miss M said she applied for the credit card account over the telephone. She says she was 
told the PPI was to cover sickness and redundancy. Miss M says she signed to take it out as 
she was advised to do, but never had any need to claim on the PPI and it wasnt needed. 
Lloyds has provided a copy of the actual credit card application form completed by Miss M. 
This may have been completed in part before being sent out to Miss M. On this form is a 
section which is headed Payments Insurance. In this section there is a choice of saying 
that the insurance is wanted or not wanted. No other information is provided on the form 
about the insurance. I can see that the box to say that the insurance is wanted has been 
ticked by hand.
Miss M has said she was told the insurance was for sickness and redundancy. As this isnt 
stated on the actual application form in the PPI box, I assume this must have been said to 
her by the customer advisor.
When Miss M signed the application form, she signed to say that everything on it was 
correct. And as the box to take out the PPI had been ticked to say she wanted the cover, she 
was also agreeing to this section being correct. The section itself does make it clear that 
there is a choice. So I think at the time Miss M would have known she had a choice and 
decided she wanted to take out this type of cover. 
Lloyds has told us it assumes the PPI was recommended to Miss M, so it needed to ensure 
it was suitable for her needs. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss M and there is no record of what the adviser 
discussed in relation to the policy.
I cant be sure Lloyds did all it should have done to determine whether the policy was 
suitable for Miss M given her circumstances. However, taking account of what Miss M has 
told us about her circumstances at the time I think its more likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration: -
- Miss M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Miss M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Miss Ms ability to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period of time as she has told us she had no sick pay, so 
would have had to rely on statutory sick pay and she has also said she had no other 
means to make her payments at the time.
-Ive seen nothing to indicate the monthly cost of the policy wasnt affordable for Miss M. 
The cost appeared on her statement each month so if she had any concerns, she could have 
raised this with Lloyds and cancelled the policy.
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Miss M. There 
was nothing about Miss Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Miss M has told us she had no pre-existing medical 
conditions so would not have been restricted in the claims she could make if off sick. 
Therefore, Ive not seen anything to suggest Miss M would have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover contained in the terms and conditions. As she wasnt 
caught by any restrictions of the policy, I dont think better information about these relating to 
the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. So it was suitable for her. 
I note Miss M says she has never claimed and didnt need the policy. But if she had needed 
to claim I think the policy would have provided a useful benefit and been of value to Miss M. 
From the information provided she had limited means to pay for other household expenses 
and living costs and nothing has been provided to show Miss M had any other insurance or 
ways to pay for her living expenses if she wasnt working. 
Miss M has responded to the adjudicators view to say she opened a savings account in 
2001 and also has provided some documents that indicate in 2004 what the balance was on 
this account. But the PPI was taken out in 1994, some 10 years before the savings balance 
Miss M has provided. And she has said in earlier documents that in 1994 she had no other 
means to pay for her credit card payments other than her salary. It is her circumstances at 
the time she took out the PPI that are relevant as the decision to take out the PPI would 
have been made by Miss M based on her circumstances at that time.
Taking all this into account, together with all the other evidence, it follows that I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold.Part of the PPI premiums Miss M paid was for commission and profit share, so the premium 
wasnt just to cover the insurers cost of underwriting the policy. The Financial Conduct 
Authority has put in place rules and guidance that says for some credit taken out or 
continuing after certain dates, where the commission and profit share is more than 50% it 
may excessive and amounts over this level must be refunded with compensatory interest. 
Lloyds has considered this and offered directly to Mr M to refund the excess commission and 
profit share.
Ive looked at the information provided by Lloyds about this excess commission and its 
calculations. And I think that the approach it has taken, and the offer made is fair. I 
understand an offer relating to this was made directly to Miss M in June 2020 and the 
payment should now have been processed and made.  If not yet paid to Miss M, then this 
payment should be made as soon as possible with any compensatory interest being updated 
to the date of final payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
by the Lloyds Bank PLC. The offer for compensation for the excess commission and profit 
share is fair and if not yet paid this should be done
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman