DRN-3491811
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about her car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited because, 
when she contacted it about an accident shed been in, it referred her to an external hire car 
company.
What happened
Mrs S called Admiral to tell it that shed been involved in an accident. The other insurer had 
offered to assist her, the other driver having accepted liability, but she wanted to use her 
own insurer. She told Admiral she was concerned as she had a trip booked which she would 
need her car for, or at least one of a similar size. The Admiral advisor told her that it works 
alongside a car hire company and Mrs S agreed to be referred to them for provision of a hire 
car (of a similar size to hers). 
A car was provided, but Mrs S later became aware that this was a separate company to 
Admiral and that the hire car wasnt being provided as part of her car insurance policy. She 
became aware that she might face costs and she then had to assist the hire car company in 
taking the other insurer to court to recover its outlay. She felt Admiral had misled her during 
the call in which it referred her to the hire car company. 
Admiral said it had done nothing wrong. It said it had been open with Mrs S and used a 
script during its call with her which had been approved by the regulator. Mrs S complained to 
this service.
Our investigator listened to the call between Admiral and Mrs S. He felt that the conversation 
had not been that clear. He said that it had clearly been important to Mrs S to use the 
services of her own insurer. But he noted that nothing the advisor had said to Mrs S had 
made it clear that the hire car company was separate to Admiral and its services did not fall 
under the provision of her insurance policy. He felt if things had been explained clearly to 
Mrs S shed have been able to make an informed decision about using the hire car 
company, which would have avoided her worry and confusion shed experienced when 
everything had eventually come to light. He said it should pay Mrs S £200 compensation.
Admiral said it felt the call had been clear. It said it had even referred to the company 
providing the hire car service. It also noted that Mrs S had said she wanted to use the 
quickest service. So it didnt think it was that important to her to use Admiral. Our 
investigator told Admiral that didnt change his view and explained why.
Mrs S said that whilst the compensation was welcome, she really had hoped we would make 
Admiral change its processes. Our investigator explained that isnt something we can do  
that our role is to assess the individual complaint before us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I, like our investigator, think Admiral didnt treat Mrs S fairly on this occasion. I know Admiral 
thinks it has done enough as it has sought approval of the script its advisors use on these 
calls from the regulator. But I think that applying an overarching approach like that fails to 
deal with its policyholders as individuals with individual needs that, reasonably, need to be 
responded to.
Ive listened to the call Mrs S had with Admiral. I think, from an experienced perspective, the 
overall information Admiral gave was correct. But, taking my expert hat off and listening to 
the conversation from Mrs Ss perspective, I think she was led to believe that the car hire 
company was an extension of Admirals services. I dont think its relevant, as Admiral has 
said, that it told her this was a different company to it. As our investigator explained, it isnt 
unusual for an insurer to utilise the services of third-party companies in providing the cover 
given by its policy. That wasnt enough, in my view, to alert Mrs S to the fact that the car hire 
wasnt being provided as part of her insurance cover with Admiral.
I also think it was important to Mrs S to be using the services of her own insurer. She also, 
as Admiral has pointed out, wanted things to be done quickly. But it is possible for more than 
one thing to be important to a policyholder. There might, of course, come a crunch point 
when they have to decide which is the most important thing for them. But crucially, if an 
insurer is treating their customer fairly, it will give them all the reasonable facts they need for 
them to make an informed decision in this respect. Admiral didnt do that here.
The consequence of Admirals failure was that when things didnt go to plan with the car hire 
company, Mrs S was left feeling abandoned because she came to realise it was separate to 
Admiral. I understand how worried shes been and that she feels let down by Admiral. She 
also had to put in some time and effort to uncover and understand the real position of the 
relevant businesses, and what that meant for her. It isnt for me to make Admiral change the 
way it operates  that is the role of the regulator. But I can make it pay compensation to 
Mrs S to make up for the distress and inconvenience its caused to her. Here I think that 
£200 is fairly and reasonably due.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mrs S £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman