DRN-2763533
The complaint
 Mr P complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited misled him about the balance 
that was owed on his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The amount owed by Mr P is not disputed. What is at issue is whether due to BMWFS giving 
him incomplete information it should forgo what Mr P owes on his finance agreement. 
When Mr P was facing financial challenges, BMW assisted by accepting reduced payments 
and this was achieved by setting up a separate account for the arrears.  Later Mr P wanted 
to make a partial early payment and he was given the figures for clearing his main account, 
but not the one which held his arrears. 
Clearly it would have been better had the business also reminded him of his arrears, but it 
failed to do so. Its failure does not mean the arrears dont exist or that they are not due. 
What has happened is that Mr P has suffered loss of expectation. He thought the figures 
BMWFS gave him included all his debts, but this was not the case.
I appreciate Mr P relied on the information given to him by BMWFS, but it was open to him to 
be satisfied that the figures were correct bearing in mind he had recently had the benefit of 
deferred payments. 
I dont believe it is right that BMWFS be expected to pay Mr P some £1,232 for this error. I 
think that would be a disproportionate response. I would not expect a bank which had given 
out an erroneous account balance to be held to that figure and similarly I dont believe 
BMWFS should be held to the figure it gave for reducing the main account. I do consider it 
right that Mr P be compensated for the error and I consider the fair and reasonable response 
is that proposed by our investigator.
Putting things right
BMWFS should compensate Mr P.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in that I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to pay Mr P compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman