DRN-3630773
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has refused to refund payments he says he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Mr H says he was with some friends, and showed one of them how he used his Monzo 
account to top up his online gambling account with money from his current account held at 
another bank, which Ill call B. Mr H says that later that day he realised his phone was 
missing and that he the other friends he was with had taken it as a joke, he did then get his 
phone back later that day. Mr H says he then discovered that a series of payments had been 
made from his current account with B to his online gambling account to facilitate some bets, 
and this was done via Mr Hs Monzo account. Mr H says his friends admitted to doing the 
transfers, so he contacted Monzo to say that he hadnt authorised them and to ask that they 
be refunded to him.
Monzo declined his claim, it said that all the payments had been authorised correctly, they 
were to Mr Hs own gambling account, followed Mr Hs usual pattern of spending  so had 
not triggered any fraud checks  and that Mr H had admitted to showing his friends how to 
make the payments. So it considered that the disputed payments were not fraud and said it 
would not be refunding them to Mr H. Monzo did though agree that some of the service it 
provided when dealing with Mr Hs concerns could have been better, so it paid him £40 to 
recognise that.
Mr R disagreed, and so he referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at 
what had happened and felt that it was more likely than not that the payments had been 
made by Mr H or with his knowledge. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so as no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr H is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account with Monzo explain that it will usually refund 
money if someone makes a payment without the account holders permission, unless:
you purposefully didnt keep your phone, card (including virtual card), PIN or other security 
details safe, you were very negligent in not keeping them safe, you gave them to someone 
else, or your account is overdrawn
The key question here is whether Monzo has acted fairly in concluding that Mr H should be 
held liable for the payments.
There is no dispute here that the payments were authorised using Mr Hs Monzo app on his 
phone. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Monzo to hold Mr H liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
its more likely than not that Mr H consented to or allowed the payments to be made.
Given what Mr H has told us, and the evidence Ive seen, there are two possible scenarios 
for what happened here. Either Mr H made the payments himself, or he gave his friends all 
the information they needed in order for them to make the payments and they then made the 
payments either with or without his knowledge.
But in both these scenarios I think it is reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr H liable for the 
payments that were made. Obviously if the payments were made either by Mr H himself or 
by his friends with his knowledge then it would be reasonable for him to be held liable. But 
even if Mr Hs friends made the payments without his knowledge, it seems clear that they 
were only able to because he provided them with all the necessary information to allow them 
to do so. And I think that would clearly fall under the definition of not keeping his details safe, 
being negligent in keeping them safe, or giving them to someone else  as set out in the 
terms of his Monzo account.
I appreciate that Mr H says if Monzo had done further checks to ensure the payments were 
genuine then they would have been stopped much earlier and he would have lost less 
money. But given that the payments were not at all unusual spending in the wider context of 
Mr Hs account  he regularly made transfers into his account from his current account with 
B and then immediately transferred those funds to one of his gambling accounts  and that 
they were not for particularly large or unusual amounts, I dont think there was anything that 
would have triggered Monzo to take additional steps to ensure the payments were genuine.
So taking everything into account, I think that Monzo was reasonable to conclude that Mr H 
authorised these payments and either made them himself or allowed them be made. As a 
result, I find that Monzo is entitled to hold him liable for them and I wont be asking it to 
refund anything to him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman