DRN-4331615
The complaint
Mr O complains about the advice given by David Stock & Co Limited (DSCL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and caused him 
financial loss and distress.
Mr O is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr O.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Os employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employer DB scheme (the BSPS) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  it said that if risk-related qualifying conditions 
relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Os 
employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or transfer 
their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017, 
and was later extended to 22 December 2017. 
Mr O returned his completed time to choose form before the deadline, opting to move to 
the BSPS2. But it seems Mr O was still concerned about the security of his preserved 
benefits in the DB scheme. So in December 2017, Mr O approached independent financial 
adviser DSCL to discuss his pension and retirement needs.  
At DSCLs request, Mr O completed a one page initial questionnaire dated 11 January 
2018. DSCL then prepared a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) and an initial report for 
Mr O, which were both dated 12 January 2018. 
DSCL and Mr O met on 15 January 2018. DSCL completed a fact find for Mr O to gather 
more information about his circumstances and objectives. It recorded he was age 39 and 
was unmarried but had a partner and two dependent children aged 12 and 16. That he was 
employed, though no information about income and expenditure was recorded. It recorded 
that Mr O had another pension, this was his employers new defined contribution (DC) 
pension which hed joined in April 2017, though DSCL didnt record the value of this pension 
or what contributions were paid. DSCL also didnt record whether Mr O had any other assets 
or debts. DSCL recorded that Mr O wanted flexibility over who his DB scheme benefits 
would be left to as he wasnt married, so he was concerned these would be lost to his 
partner and children in the event of his death. DSCL assessed Mr Os attitude to risk (ATR), 
which it deemed to be moderate, or five out of ten. And it assessed his capacity for loss, 
which it deemed to be minimal. 
When they met on 15 January 2018, it seems DSCL also discussed its initial report with 
Mr O. The initial report said Mr O was attracted by the enhanced cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of his DB scheme benefits and wanted to have this in his control. That he 
was concerned the DB scheme would provide very little to his family in the event of his 
death, and thought BSPS2 could eventually fall into the PPF. And that DSCL had discussed 
the risks of transferring with Mr O. Ultimately, the initial report said that if Mr O was confident 
he understood the risks and benefits, then DSCL could help him select investment funds and 
the next step was to complete the SIPP application forms, with his transferred DB funds to 
initially be held in a cash type fund until a full investment portfolio had been agreed. 
On the same date, Mr O signed a SIPP application form. He also signed to confirm DSCL 
had fully advised him about transferring from a DB scheme to a SIPP, that he understood 
the risks but wanted greater security for him and his family through having control of his DB 
scheme benefits, and he wouldnt hold DSCL liable for any loss he might incur because of 
his decision to transfer. 
DSCL prepared a client agreement document that said it would, with very few exceptions, 
confirm to Mr O in writing the basis of its recommendations. The Financial Review and 
Recommendation and other sections of this agreement were crossed out with a note saying 
Refer to Initial Report 12-1-18. And DSCL hasnt provided a copy of any further suitability 
report. So it seems the initial report of 12 January 2018 was DSCLs suitability report here.
After receiving DSCLs advice, £60,833.19 was transferred out of Mr Os DB scheme. This 
remained in a cash fund within his SIPP. 
Mr O complained to DSCL in 2021 about its 2018 advice because he realised it might have 
been unsuitable and caused him a financial loss. 
But DSCL didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said it had followed the regulators requirements 
and guidance, undertaken a thorough advice process, explained the risks so Mr O was able 
to make an informed decision to transfer, and the transfer met his objectives. DSCL said it 
had tried to meet with Mr O about where to invest his transferred funds, with no success.
Mr O referred his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators upheld it, as they 
thought the advice was unsuitable. They said the transfer likely wouldnt leave Mr O better 
off. That his concerns about the PPF and death benefits didnt outweigh this, and DSCL 
should have reassured him about these concerns. They said DSCL should put Mr O into the 
position hed have been in but for its unsuitable advice and carry out a redress calculation on 
that basis. And it should pay Mr O a further £300 compensation for the distress it caused him 
on discovering the advice was unsuitable and had perhaps led to a large financial loss.
DSCL disagreed, for some of the same reasons it gave in its response to Mr Os complaint. 
It added that Mr O initially opted for BSPS2 but changed his mind after his colleagues 
transferred out of the DB scheme. That Mr O was told to transfer by a union representative 
and an adviser paid for by the BSPS trustees, and he wanted to take the enhanced CETV. 
So Mr O was insistent on transferring despite any risks, and hed approached other advisers 
but they wouldnt advise him because he was insistent. But DSCL had been willing to help 
Mr O so he didnt risk being scammed online, and had charged a low fee. And DSCL told 
Mr O that if he transferred as an insistent client, his right to complain would be affected.
DSCL also added that it had avoided using the word recommendation - it gave Mr O the 
information to decide for himself and hadnt encouraged him to transfer. Mr O was worried about his employers stability, and DSCL thought he was right to be as the UK steel industry 
wasnt doing well. Mr O wanted control and flexibility over his pension, in particular over the 
death benefits. And the DB scheme would only provide Mr O with a small pension and Mr O 
thought he could get better investment growth. DSCL said Mr Os DB fund was relatively 
small and would be worth less than the current relative value, as it wasnt inflation proof. And 
that Mr O thought his job might shorten his life expectancy so he wanted to enjoy his 
pension while he had his health. 
Further, DSCL thought any redress should be capped because Mr O hadnt let DSCL 
implement its investment recommendations which would have increased his pensions value, 
and our Service had set a precedent for this in a previous and separate complaint against 
DSCL. And any redress calculations should be based on Mr O moving to the PPF, as the 
BSPS2 wasnt certain to go ahead at the time of the advice and could not exist until the end 
of March 2018 in any case. 
Mr O thought redress should be calculated to age 65 as he hadnt yet retired or accessed 
any of his pension benefits. He didnt remember being given pension advice by a union 
representative, and said they wouldnt have been authorised for that anyway. And Mr O said 
DSCL hadnt offered a meeting about investment recommendations, despite him asking for 
this in 2019.  
Our Investigator didnt change their opinion. They said it was DSCL that was authorised to 
advise Mr O, and it wasnt the case that it had recommended he not transfer and had then 
treated him as an insistent client.  Instead, DSCL seemed to accept it had recommended a 
transfer and was now arguing the transfer was suitable. Our Investigator wasnt persuaded 
Mr O would have insisted on a transfer against DSCLs advice. And that regardless of the 
size of the CETV, advice to transfer still had to be suitable. The BSPS2 was covered by the 
PPF, so Mr Os pension didnt depend on the steel trade. And while the BSPS2 wasnt 
finalised at the time of the advice, Mr O opted into it under the time to choose exercise so 
he would have joined it in due course if DSCL had given him suitable advice. So, redress 
should be based on him joining the BSPS2. 
 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to 
Mr O to advise him of the FCAs proposed changes which were due to come into effect in 
April 2023 and to give him the option to have any redress due to him calculated under the 
then current guidance or to wait for the new rules to come into effect. However, Mr O was 
informed that if the complaint had not been resolved by the time the new rules and guidance 
came into effect, the new rules and guidance would apply in any event.
Whilst the case was awaiting an Ombudsmans decision, DSCL carried out a redress 
calculation with no admission of liability. It said this showed no financial loss because Mr Os 
current SIPP value was enough to buy a deferred annuity to replicate his DB scheme 
benefits, and Mr O should mitigate his loss by converting his SIPP to a deferred annuity. 
Our Investigator said FG17/9 methodology should be followed at this point, not deferred 
annuity quotes. And DSCLs calculations hadnt used the actual charges or accounted for 
Mr O now being married, as they should have. 
Mr O told us he wanted to wait and have any redress calculated in line with any new 
guidance/rules to be published by the regulator.The Investigator informed both Mr O and DSCL that if the Ombudsman considering the case 
decided to uphold it, they could require DSCL to calculate any redress owed to Mr O using 
the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator. 
DSCL said it expected to recalculate redress in mid-July 2023 using the regulators 
calculator. But the complaint remained unresolved, so it came to me for a decision. 
On 9 August 2023 I issued my provisional decision. In summary, I acknowledged that 
flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a SIPP would have 
sounded attractive to Mr O. But I said DSCL wasnt there to simply arrange what Mr O might 
have thought he wanted  it was instead obliged to give him an objective picture and to 
recommend what was in his best interests.
I said DSCLs advice to transfer was unsuitable because it meant Mr O was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, and there was no clear financial benefit to Mr O 
for transferring out of the DB scheme. I didnt think there were any reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So I said DSCL should have 
advised Mr O to maintain his choice to opt into the BSPS2, given his particular 
circumstances and lack of certain retirement plans. I thought DSCL should compensate 
Mr O for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice, and using the benefits available to Mr O through the 
BSPS2 at age 65 for comparison purposes. And I said DSCL should also pay Mr O £300 
compensation for the distress the matter has caused him.
Mr O confirmed his likely income tax rate in retirement would be 20%, and accepted my 
provisional decision. 
DSCL had a question about the redress calculation and asked that Mr O provide a plan 
valuation from his SIPP provider. Our Service directed DSCL to the relevant part of the 
regulators rules, and forwarded DSCLs request to Mr O. 
As both parties have had the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision, Im now in a 
position to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr O nor DSCL have disputed the findings I made in my provisional decision about 
the suitability of the advice Mr O received. So, I will simply set out my findings again 
beneath.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DSCLs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DSCL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Os 
best interests.
I should first say here that while DSCL accepts that it gave Mr O advice on the transfer of his 
BSPS benefits, it says it did not give Mr O a personal recommendation. However, Im 
mindful that DSCL has also consistently said that the advice it gave Mr O was suitable  it 
said the transfer was suitable for Mr O. And in its response to the Investigators view, it 
reiterated this, saying
The FCA conduct rule requirements were followed and complied with in line with the 
FCAs suitability requirements. Following the correct process and FCA rules [the adviser] 
was able to establish his unique circumstance. This meant [the adviser] had complied with 
the FCA conduct of business suitability rules as he understood his personal and financial 
circumstances along with his future objectives.
Given that DSCL says the adviser complied with the regulators suitability rules, having 
understood Mr Os circumstances and objectives, it seems to me that it did give him a 
recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS. While the paperwork DSCL is limited and does 
not set out what its recommendation to Mr O was, Im persuaded on balance that it did give 
Mr O a recommendation  and this is consistent with what Mr O has said about the advice 
he received.
DSCL has also referred to Mr O being insistent on the transfer taking place. But it doesnt 
appear that it processed the transfer on an insistent client basis. An insistent client is a 
customer who wishes to proceed with a transaction which is against the advice given to him 
by the firm. Although this wasnt formalised in COBS until after Mr O received the advice 
from DSCL, in February 2016, the regulator provided guidance about what steps it expected 
businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, which it set 
out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must be 
clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If the 
advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined 
contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see 
COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
they are acting against its advice. Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve 
expected DSCL to have been aware of this and ensured that the advice and process it 
followed was consistent with the regulators expectations. There isnt any evidence to 
demonstrate that DSCL advised Mr O not to transfer out of the BSPS. So, Im satisfied that it 
did advise him to transfer out and that it did not process the transfer on an insistent client 
basis.
As such, in line with the regulators guidance, DSCL should only have considered the 
transfer to be suitable if it was clearly in Mr Os best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied the transfer was in Mr Os best interests.
Financial viability 
DSCL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Os pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr O was age 39 at the time of the advice and didnt have a proposed retirement age yet, 
because as the fact find noted, it was too early for him to have thought about this. But 
DSCLs TVAS was based on him retiring at age 65. DSCL argues its 2018 advice was 
suitable because Mr O wanted to take advantage of an enhanced CETV. It may be that the 
CETV was enhanced at that time, but the TVAS nonetheless quoted the critical yield 
required to match Mr Os benefits at age 65 was 5.45% if he took a full pension, though it 
didnt record what critical yield would be required if Mr O took TFC and a reduced pension. 
And the TVAS quoted the critical yield required to match the benefits available through the 
PPF at age 65 was 4.57% per year if Mr O took a full pension and 4.33% per year if he took 
TFC and a reduced pension.
I should say here that the critical yield figures Ive referred to above are based on the 
existing scheme benefits. But remaining in the scheme wasnt an option; Mr O had to choose 
to opt into the BSPS2, move with the existing scheme to the PPF or transfer to a personal 
arrangement. By the time the advice was given, the details of the BSPS2 were known and 
Mr O had chosen to opt into the BSPS2 under the time to choose exercise. So, the critical 
yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve formed the basis of the advice so Mr O 
was able to make an informed decision, and I think the critical yields applicable to the 
BSPS2 benefits could have been lower. Nonetheless, in order for a transfer to be financially 
viable, Id expect there to be a clear prospect of returns in excess of the critical yield in order 
to justify giving up the DB scheme guaranteed benefits. And Im not satisfied that was the 
case here.The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 25 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Os 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr O 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And I think DSCLs assessment of Mr Os 
ATR as moderate was slightly too high. I say this because its fact find records that Mr O 
had little to no investment experience, that his primary concern was the security of his 
capital, and that he had minimal capacity for loss. But even if I accepted that Mr Os ATR 
was moderate, I think Mr O wasnt likely to be able to improve on the benefits available to 
him through the PPF and the BSPS2. So there was no clear financial benefit to Mr O for 
transferring out of the DB scheme and losing its guaranteed benefits.
DSCL has provided a TVAS and other documents which include financial models, and Ive 
considered these along with everything else DSCL has provided. But none of these seem to 
show the impact of Mr O transferring his DB scheme benefits and taking the same level of 
income he wouldve been entitled to under the scheme on the value of his remaining pension 
until his estimated death. So, its difficult to see whether Mr O couldve made his funds last 
until he died. And there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when 
Mr O died, which Ill return to.
Further, Ive not seen anything to make me think DSCL considered what income Mr O would 
need in retirement because, as its fact find recorded, it was too early to say what his 
retirement income needs might be. So, in my view, the financial models dont offer any 
insight into whether Mr O couldve met his retirement needs by transferring out of the BSPS 
or maintaining his choice to join the BSPS2.
And given Mr Os expected retirement was so far in the future, about 25 years, I dont think 
Mr O needed to make a decision to transfer out of his DB scheme at that time. This is 
particularly the case given Mr O didnt know what income hed need in retirement. The 
BSPS2 provided him with a similar level of starting benefits and hed still have the option of 
transferring out of that scheme nearer to his desired retirement age if that suited his 
particular circumstances at that time. So, I dont think Mr O shouldve been encouraged to 
make an irreversible decision to leave his DB scheme when he was still decades away from 
his planned retirement age and he wasnt likely to be able to improve on either the benefits 
available through the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring out.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt clearly in Mr Os best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
DSCL has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
still suitable overall, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
While transferring Mr Os BSPS benefits to a SIPP would provide him with flexibility to take 
tax-free cash (TFC) from age 55 and leave his funds invested, theres no evidence to 
support that Mr O required such flexibility in retirement. As Ive said above, Mr Os retirement 
was likely to be about 25 years away so he didnt yet know whether hed want or need any flexibility in the way he accessed his benefits. And theres no pressing need for flexibility 
recorded in any of the documents DSCL has provided  indeed, he was still 15 years away 
from even being able to access his TFC. I think if asked, most people would say flexibility is 
desirable, but that doesnt mean it was a genuine objective for Mr O at the point of the 
advice.
I also cant see evidence that Mr O had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Thats because theres no calculation of his retirement income needs because as 
I say, it was still very many years until Mr O could retire.  And Mr Os other pension could 
provide him with a degree of flexibility in future, since the fund he would build up over the 
next 25 years could be taken flexibly.
Ultimately, at the time of the advice, Mr O didnt have any concrete retirement plans, 
although he didnt expect to retire before age 65. This was about 25 years away and his 
income needs at that point were unknown. So I think it was too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. At the point of taking advice, Mr O had 
already opted to join the BSPS2 despite being still being unsure about this. So, I dont think 
Mr O should have been encouraged to give up his guaranteed benefits when he didnt know 
what his income needs in retirement would be. If Mr O later had reason to transfer out of the 
BSPS2 because he needed a greater degree of flexibility, he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was suitable to advise Mr O to transfer in order to have flexibility that he 
didnt really need.
Death benefits
At the time of the advice, DSCL recorded that a key reason for Mr O to transfer to a SIPP 
was so that the remaining value of his pension could be passed to his partner and his 
dependent children. Because Mr O and his partner werent married, Mr O was concerned his 
partner wouldnt be entitled to the spouses pension under Mr Os DB scheme or the PPF in 
the event of Mr Os death. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr O. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr O might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr O about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think DSCL properly explored to what extent Mr O was prepared to 
accept a potentially lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
My understanding is that neither the BSPS2 nor the PPF will pay a spouses pension to an 
unmarried partner. So I accept its not likely that Mr Os partner would have been able to 
receive a spouses pension under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the time of the advice. But if 
Mr O died before retirement then his partner would be entitled to a death in service benefit  
assuming she was nominated as his beneficiary.
Given Mr Os retirement was expected to be about 25 years away, I dont think his marital 
status was as relevant at the time the advice was given. I wouldnt expect DSCL to suggest 
to Mr O that he and his partner should marry simply to allow her to access Mr Os death 
benefits under his existing DB scheme. But given the very valuable spouses benefits offered 
under the DB scheme and the PPF, I think its reasonable to expect DSCL to have explored 
with Mr O whether he and his partner planned to marry in the future in any case. But theres 
nothing in the documents provided by DSCL to suggest it did so. And Mr O and his partner married less than eight months after the advice. So, I think its likely at the time of the advice 
that this was envisaged in the near future, and before retirement. So, I dont think the death 
benefits attached to the DB scheme shouldve been dismissed as they were by DSCL.
If Mr O was married, the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr O predeceased her. I dont think DSCL made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr O. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. DSCL didnt 
consider what Mr Os retirement income needs would be, and its financial models dont show 
the impact of Mr O transferring his BSPS benefits and taking the same level of income he 
wouldve been entitled to under the scheme on the value of his remaining pension until his 
estimated death. So there still may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on 
when Mr O died. In any event, DSCL should not have encouraged Mr O to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a SIPP over his own security in retirement.
DSCL now argues that Mr O was concerned his job would shorten his life expectancy. But 
the documents provided by DSCL from the time of advice dont record any such concerns or 
discussion. Instead, they record that Mr Os health was good. In any case, Mr O not reaching 
his life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also possible that he would exceed this, 
in which case Mr O would need his pension to last longer. If Mr O transferred out of the DB 
scheme, he would be relying on investment returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in 
the SIPP to provide the death benefits, whereas the spouses/dependents pension was 
guaranteed and escalated. 
Furthermore, if Mr O genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner and his children, 
which didnt depend on his existing DB scheme, investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think DSCL shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
But the documents from the time of the advice dont record any discussion about this. And 
Ive not seen that DSCL obtained any quotes for life cover for Mr O, so I dont think it gave 
Mr O enough information on which to base a decision about whether or not this was 
something he wanted or could afford. The starting point here should have been for DSCL to 
ask Mr O how much he would ideally like to leave to his partner or any other beneficiary, and 
how much he could afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be available to 
Mr O and would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income.
Im also mindful that Mr O had another pension he was likely to be paying into for more than 
another 25 years until he retired. This fund couldve been passed on to a beneficiary of his 
choice at retirement.
Overall, I dont think the death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr O. And I dont think that the alternative means of 
providing a legacy for his partner and children were properly explored.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Os desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr O was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, it appears Mr O left the funds uninvested, 
which was not in his best interests. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for 
Mr O  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
DSCL argues financial security was a compelling reason for Mr O to transfer. That he was 
worried about the financial stability of his employer and the BSPS. And that hindsight 
shouldnt be used here, because there was a great deal of uncertainty and concern about 
the BSPS, the BSPS2 and the PPF, and the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. And even if it did, Mr O was worried it might fall into the PPF. So DSCL might argue that 
avoiding the PPF was a compelling reason for Mr O to transfer his DB benefits to a SIPP, 
to the extent that he opted into the BSPS2 during the time to choose exercise while 
seeking advice about his options. 
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr O had serious concerns about their 
employers future and the effect this would have on their pension pots. The situation was 
evolving after the BSPS closed in March 2017. There was also some widespread 
apprehension about what moving pensions to the PPF meant for members. So, its well 
known that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr O. But this only serves to 
emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options available and 
ultimately the need for suitable advice. 
I understand there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived ideas or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. But DSCL was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing an 
appropriately balanced view of all the available options. And DSCL needed to be able to 
clearly demonstrate that transferring out of his DB scheme was in Mr Os best interests. 
I dont dispute that when Mr O approached DSCL there was still the possibility that his 
pension could move to the PPF. And DSCL has argued it wasnt certain  at the time of its 
advice  that the BSPS2 would go ahead. But I think DSCL overestimated the chance of 
the BSPS2 not happening. I note that Mr O sought advice quite soon after he received his 
time to choose pack. In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA had 
been agreed. Under the announced plans, Mr Os employer agreed to set up and sponsor 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. The 
Pensions Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017. 
Subsequently on 28 August 2017 the BSPS administrators provided scheme members, 
including Mr O, with an important update in respect of BSPS transfer values. The update 
said an expected payment into the BSPS of £550 million by Mr Os employer, as part of its 
agreement with The Pension Regulator, was likely to result in an improvement to transfer 
values. And for those with unexpired transfer values, like Mr O, administrators would issue 
updated valuations in October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least December 
2017. The confirmation that Mr Os employer had made the payment referred to was 
announced on 11 September 2017. That was several months before DSCL gave its advice 
to Mr O. 
Given that the whole purpose of the RAA was to prevent the entirety of the BSPS entering 
the PPF, I think DSCL should have been aware that it was more likely than not that the 
BSPS2 would go ahead. In those circumstances, while entry into the PPF was still a 
possibility, I think DSCL should have explained to Mr O that it seemed more likely than not 
that the BSPS2 would go ahead. And it should also have addressed any remaining 
concerns Mr O had about his employers influence over his pension - the trustees of the 
BSPS and his employer were not one and the same. But DSCL didnt do these things.
I also think DSCL ought to have reassured Mr O that the possibility of his scheme moving to 
the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The PPF still provided him with a guaranteed, 
increasing pension without associated investment risk. And as Ive explained above, Mr O 
was still unlikely to be able to improve on the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out to a SIPP.
Overall, I appreciate Mr O had very strong feelings about transferring out and the PPF when 
he sought advice from DSCL. But I think if DSCL had provided clear and objective 
information about Mr Os options and benefits whichever DB scheme he was in, and explained that Mr O could meet his objectives by maintaining his choice to join the BSPS2 or 
moving to the PPF, I think Mr O wouldve been reassured by this and accepted the advice. 
And given that Mr O had already opted into the BSPS2 under the time to choose exercise, 
Im satisfied he wouldve been prepared to maintain this choice had he been advised to do 
so. So, if hed received that advice from DSCL, he would therefore have joined the BSPS2 in 
due course. 
Suitability of investments
DSCL advised that Mr Os SIPP be invested in a cash fund initially. And there is now a 
dispute as to who is responsible for the funds remaining in a cash fund instead of being 
invested in a fund that had the potential for higher investment growth. As part of this, DSCL 
says a previous decision made by our Service in a separate complaint has set a precedent 
for redress being capped. 
I should be clear that our Services approach is to consider the particular circumstances of 
each individual complaint. So, thats what Ive done here.
And advice that was suitable overall would have included a recommendation to invest in a 
suitable fund, not cash, from the outset. And I think DSCL failed to do this. Ultimately, DSCL 
advised Mr O to transfer his DB scheme benefits, and had it not done so, Mr O wouldnt 
have been vulnerable to poor investment choices.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr O. But DSCL wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr O might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr O needed and advise him on what was in his best interests. 
DSCLs initial report, the only suitability report it produced for Mr O, said You have asked us 
to provide advice on the subject of transferring. But DSCL didnt clearly and simply explain 
to Mr O how he could meet his objectives by remaining in the DB scheme. Instead, I think it 
provided Mr O with information that was ambiguous and unbalanced. 
I say this because while I accept the initial report included information about the risks of 
transferring, I think it also minimised the valuable benefits to Mr O of remaining in his DB 
scheme - as Ive explained, I dont think the death benefits attached to the DB scheme 
shouldve been dismissed as they were by DSCL. And DSCL suggested the existing DB 
scheme guarantees might be lost in future, by saying that BSPS members thought many of 
the scheme guarantees theyd had on joining had now disappeared. 
I acknowledge DSCLs documents from the time of the advice suggest Mr O might have 
wanted to transfer out. But I think this was due to ambiguous and unbalanced advice on 
DSCLs part, and to DSCLs failure to address the misconceptions Mr O had. Therefore, I 
dont think Mr O was able to make an informed choice  I think he probably believed the only 
way to meet his objectives was to transfer out.  
So ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr O to transfer his DB scheme benefits was 
suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, 
Mr O was likely to obtain overall lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no 
other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr O shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out of the scheme because of concerns about the stability of 
his employer and the DB scheme, concerns that DSCL could and should have reassured him about. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think DSCL shouldve advised Mr O to maintain his choice to join the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr O would've gone ahead anyway, against DSCLs 
advice. DSCL argues Mr O was insistent from the start because he wanted to take 
advantage of the enhanced CETV, he was concerned about the stability of his employer and 
the DB scheme, and hed already been told to transfer by a union representative and an 
adviser paid for by the BSPS trustees. And Mr O had previously approached other advisers 
but they wouldnt advise him because he was insistent. 
However, Ive not been provided with any documentary evidence to support DSCLs 
argument that Mr O was advised to transfer by a union representative or another adviser. 
And Mr O says he doesnt recall being given any pensions advice by a union representative, 
and they wouldnt have been authorised to give that advice in any case and could only have 
referred Mr O to an authorised firm such as DSCL. Mr O says the panic and rumours 
amongst his colleagues was the reason he sought advice from DSCL.    
Having carefully considered all of this, Im not persuaded that Mr O wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against DSCLs advice. I say this because Mr O was an 
inexperienced investor with a moderate ATR at most, and this pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision  he had little capacity for loss. Even if Mr O came to 
DSCL with misconceptions and preconceived ideas about transferring out of the DB scheme, 
DSCL should have provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests. Had it done so, I think Mr O wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Os concerns about his death benefits, his employer and the DB 
scheme were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable 
for him or in his best interests. If DSCL had explained that Mr O could meet all of his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr O would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think DSCL should compensate Mr O for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And it is the benefits 
available to Mr O under the BSPS2 at age 65 that DSCL should use for comparison 
purposes.
DSCL has argued that Mr O should purchase an annuity to mitigate his financial loss. But 
ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right 
instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. And I see no reason to 
depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied DSCL had caused Mr O some unnecessary distress in discovering that its 
unsuitable advice might have led to a significant financial loss. I think the £300 previously 
suggested by our Investigator is fair and reasonable compensation for this.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr O as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O would have 
most likely have maintained his choice to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. DSCL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr O has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Os acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, DSCL should:
calculate and offer Mr O redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr O before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr O receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr O accepts DSCLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr O for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Os end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr O as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, DSCL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Os likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
DSCL should also pay Mr O £300 for the distress this matter has caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require David Stock & Co 
Limited to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr O the balance.
If Mr O accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
David Stock & Co Limited should also pay Mr O £300 for the distress the matter has caused 
him. And David Stock & Co Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr O in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman