DRN-3842815
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the advice he was given by Sanlam Financial Services UK 
Limited (Sanlam) to invest into four Savings Programmes between 1987 and 1991. Mr C 
has said he lost out financially as a result of the poor advice.
Mr C has brought his complaint via a third party but for ease of reference in this decision I 
shall refer to Mr C.
What happened
As a result of the advice Mr C was given by Sanlam, he held four Savings Programmes;
Policy 
numberDate of 
saleMonthly 
premiumTotal 
investedDate of 
surrenderSale 
proceedsGain/(loss)
1 18.12.87 £15.00 £1,875.00 05.05.98 £2,226.50 £351.50
2 07.02.89 £40.00 £4,920.00 29.04.99 £6,196.70 £1,276.70
3 27.04.90 £25.00 £3,025.00 09.05.00 £3,431.40 £406.40
4 19.04.91 £25.00 £3,075.00 06.07.01 £2,975.25 (£99.75)
At the time of the surrender of the final policy in July 2001 Mr C didnt raise a complaint 
but after speaking with his representative he was made aware he may have cause for 
complaint. Mr C complained to Sanlam in June 2021. He said that his attitude to risk 
wasnt accurately assessed (he wasnt prepared to take any risk with his savings), he 
wasnt asked whether he had emergency funds in place, he had no investment 
experience, was single without any dependants so didnt need the life cover within the 
policy, the term was inflexible and other more suitable options werent discussed.
Sanlam consented to this service looking into the complaint and initially the investigator 
concluded it should be upheld. For the first sale he couldnt see that Sanlam discussed 
Mr Cs objectives or the level of risk he was willing to take and he wasnt persuaded this 
product was appropriate for Mr C. He didnt feel that Sanlam had considered the 
suitability of the subsequent policies. There wasnt sufficient evidence to show how 
Sanlam had reached its recommendation to invest into the savings programmes that 
provided life cover and an investment benefit if withdrawn earlier.
After receiving a response from Sanlam, the investigator reconsidered the complaint and 
didnt think it should be upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying that I was 
thinking of reaching a different outcome than the investigator. But I wanted to give the 
parties the opportunity to give me anything further to consider before I issued my final 
decision. Here is what I said;
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
When the evidence I have for a complaint is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The first savings plan sale was made before the Financial Services Act 1986 came
into force  on 29 April 1988. That Act was aimed at regulating investment 
business and giving investors greater protection. It introduced the requirement for 
investments to be suitable for the consumers circumstances  so financial 
businesses had to find out the consumers needs and circumstances and give 
suitable advice.
Before then was a legal duty to give advice with reasonable skill and care  to 
ensure that the recommended investment was appropriate for the consumers 
circumstances at the time.
Mr Cs circumstances
There is very little documentation available from the times of the sales and with 
the exception of Mr C ticking yes or no in response to some questions about his 
health there is a limited record about his circumstances and investment 
objectives.
To find out more we asked Mr Cs recollection about his circumstances around 
the time of the sales.
Mr C told us he didnt have any other investments or hold any savings at the times 
of the sales. But he couldnt recall anything further about his financial 
circumstances other than he had a mortgage of around £30,000 at the time of the 
first two sales. He later moved but couldnt remember how much his mortgage 
was for on the second property. Neither mortgages had life assurance as Mr C 
didnt have any dependants during this time. His only commitments he could 
recall, other than his mortgage repayments, were usual household bills and 
possibly a loan for a motorcycle or car.
Mr Cs attitude to risk
In the absence of any information or evidence to show how Mr Cs attitude to risk 
was assessed, or what his objectives were, I have to take into account what is 
known about his circumstances, what he has told us and consider whether the 
investments recommended were appropriate and suitable. Mr C has told us that 
the adviser failed to accurately assess the level of risk he was willing to take and 
that he wasnt prepared to take any risk when it came to his savings.
The only information I do have about Mr C is that he was employed, had a 
mortgage plus usual household outgoings and possibly a loan for a vehicle. Its 
also recorded that Mr C was with the same employer throughout and earned a 
reasonable salary so Ive first considered whether the policies were affordable for 
him.
In 1991, when the four policies were all running together Mr Cs annual salary, 
including overtime, was recorded as being £23,580 (including overtime) so the 
maximum total monthly cost of £105 represented just over 5% of his gross 
income. This plus the fact that Mr C took out further policies over the four-year 
period suggests that the plans werent unaffordable for him.Mr C told us he didnt have any savings at the time, so I dont think its 
inconceivable that he did seek advice about how to go about that. Mr C was 
young  aged 25 years at the time of the first sale  and from what he has told 
us, and the paperwork provided by Sanlam, I havent seen any evidence to 
indicate that Mr C had any investment experience. This suggests that Mr C would 
have been reliant upon the advice given to him by Sanlams adviser.
Sanlam hasnt been able to show us how it established Mr Cs attitude to risk. But 
I accept that for the first sale it took place over 35 years ago and its 
understandable there is little paperwork from the time of that sale  this took 
place pre-regulation, there were no formal requirements in terms of the 
information businesses needed to record and retain  so for that particular sale I 
would have expected Mr Cs attitude to risk to have been agreed through 
discussion between him and the adviser.
Sanlam has given us client factfile update sheets for the three later sales, but 
with the exception of recording that Mr C was topping up on his regular savings, 
they dont provide any other details or information about what was discussed  
whether Mr Cs investment objectives or circumstances were ascertained, 
whether the Programmes were still suitable for him or how risk was explained and 
agreed.
Mr C has told us that he was looking to save. And in some instances a first time 
saver might be willing to take some level of risk with their savings for the potential 
of capital growth. Its not always the case that a first time saver isnt willing to take 
any investment risk. But bearing in mind this was Mr Cs first time saving, and 
that he told us he didnt want to take any risk, I dont think its unlikely he would 
have erred on the side of caution in order to build up his savings in the first 
instance.
However, I cant know this for sure and Ive equally borne in mind Mr C was young 
and the Savings Programmes were for the longer term, so potentially Mr C could 
have been willing to take some level of risk over those terms and had the resources 
via his income to fund any losses to capital that may occur.
So, while its difficult to know what was discussed about risk and subsequently 
agreed between Mr C and his adviser, Ive looked at the investment advice and 
whether it matched Mr Cs investment objective of savings.
The advice
Mr C has said that other more suitable options werent discussed. My role isnt to 
consider what the alternatives may have been but to assess whether the 
recommendations that were made to him were appropriate or suitable for him.
All of the Savings Programmes were 100% invested into the Managed Fund 
which I see from the policy document provided by Sanlam was the default 
investment fund out of its wide range of funds. And all of the Savings 
Programmes had a life assurance benefit (or investment benefit if that was 
greater).
Under the heading of your fund choice in a Savings Programme guide from 
November 1990 the Managed Fund was said to be managed for growth and 
consists of substantial property elements, UK and international equities and fixed 
interest securities. There is no mention of Sanlams own risk rating of the fund.I note that document also says, The Programme is designed to grow steadily 
with the optimum benefit and worth being realised after about 25 years. It further 
says, Remember you are saving for the long term and it will be some time before 
the value of your units exceeds the contributions you have made.
The Managed Fund  as defined in the earliest available product particulars 
Sanlam has been able to give us from 2000  is described as being of medium 
risk and within the balanced managed sector. So, even though I cant be sure of 
Sanlams own risk rating of the fund at the outset, its later risk rating implies Mr C 
was 100% invested into a collective medium risk investment.
While I accept these Programmes were sold over 30 years ago, the 
documentation provided by Sanlam from the time of the sales doesnt indicate that 
Mr Cs lack of investment experience, flexibility or his investment and savings 
objectives were properly considered.
Based on the evidence I have and Mr Cs recollections, I dont believe any 
reasonable attempt was made by the adviser to know its customer. It wasnt 
established what Mr Cs other financial expenses or commitments were or if 
he had the capacity to hold the policies which would need to be retained for at 
least 25 years to show a worthwhile return over other shorter term priorities 
particularly bearing in mind that because of his young age, it wasnt 
unforeseeable that his circumstances may have changed.
And while there will be a point at which an investor undertakes investment 
decisions for the first time, Im not satisfied, on the balance of probabilities that 
these Savings Programmes were appropriate or suitable recommendations for Mr 
C.
And while I accept that it was prudent for Mr C to commit to saving, I am not 
persuaded that it has been shown it was appropriate or suitable to recommend 
policies with exposure to an underlying fund with stock market exposure which 
needed to remain in force over the very long term in order to give Mr C 
worthwhile returns. So even though Im satisfied that Mr C could potentially afford 
to pay the (total) monthly £105 contribution for savings, I think the Programmes 
were inflexible and dont think they were structured to meet his likely needs over 
a shorter term than 25 years.
And while I accept that the policy provided the opportunity for saving, but this 
could have been achieved without the addition of the life assurance and implicit 
cost. Its difficult to conclude that the Programmes were right for Mr C  no-one 
was going to be financially disadvantaged in the event of his death  and he 
could have achieved savings growth without the need or cost of the whole of life 
policy itself.
So, taking all of the above into account, provisionally, I think Mr Cs complaint 
should succeed.
I said that for redress purposes the performance of Mr Cs investments should be 
compared with the benchmark of Average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
Mr Cs representative responded agreeing with my findings but pointed out that given the 
sales were pre-1996 the benchmark should be the Bank of England base rate plus 1%. I 
wrote to the parties to apologise and to confirm this was correct. Sanlam didnt agree with my provisional decision. In its response it said;
Because of the passage of time since the first sale it wasnt possible to confirm 
what the adviser was told by the client, whether the Programmes were suitable or 
otherwise or whether alternatives were discussed. And as the first sale was made 
prior to the FSA Act 1986 it was a black and white situation   it wasnt possible 
to know what was discussed in the meetings and therefore should result in a non-
uphold as per previous decisions issued by the Financial Ombudsman. 
I had said my provisional decision had been based on Mr Cs recollections so it 
seemed his recollections were more exact  other more suitable options werent 
discussed and that the adviser failed to accurately assess his level of risk  rather 
than his recollections of his own circumstances which were rather vague. And 
those recollections arent evidence of what Mr C told the adviser at the time. 
Basing my decision on Mr Cs recollection wasnt the most reliable basis. 
Mr Cs recollection was that he had a mortgage at the time of the first two sales 
and Sanlam said it more likely it was endowment mortgages that were taken 
during this time to ensure repayment at the term. Even if Mr Cs mortgage was 
capital and interest repayment its questionable that a mortgage lender wouldnt 
have requested a life term assurance assigned to the lender. It had doubts over 
Mr Cs recollections of his financial circumstances and didnt have meeting notes 
to know if Mr C disclosed the information about his mortgage to his adviser. 
In his response to the investigators opinion, Mr C had said he didnt require 
policies that included life cover. Sanlam said a small amount of life cover was 
included in each plan to make it qualifying for tax purposes and it was the term 
assurance element of the plan that qualified it for tax purposes. In 1991 Mr C was 
earning £23,580  just below the higher rate tax bracket of £23,700  so it made 
sense that Mr C took advantage of the tax efficient status of the plans on the 
assumption he would receive salary increases. The life cover costs were minimal 
and the fact it qualified the plan didnt make the investment unsuitable. Mr C said 
he didnt understand the investments but was provided with each plan brochure 
and could have asked the adviser for further information. 
Mr C had said he wasnt prepared to accept any loss, but he did on the fourth 
plan after ten years. That loss should have alerted him to the potential that the 
other three plans may have exposed him to a higher level of risk than he has said 
he was prepared to take. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sanlam has said it wasnt right that I based my provisional decision on Mr Cs 
recollections about what he thought happened at the meeting when his recollections 
about his own personal circumstances were vague. 
I accept that Mr Cs recollections werent detailed  I wouldnt have expected them to 
have been after such a time. But certain things are most likely known  Mr C didnt have 
any dependants and I think its likely Mr C had a mortgage (and associated household 
outgoings) as generally getting a mortgage is a memorable lifetime event, particularly for someone of a relatively young age. And also, I think its most likely that Mr C was looking 
for savings  otherwise I would question why he would have invested into the Savings 
Programmes. And Ive got no reason to think he was anything other than a first-time 
investor which suggests he would have been reliant upon the advice he was given.
But I didnt just base my provisional decision on what Mr C told us. I considered the  
equally limited  information that Sanlam has been able to give us  again I accept it 
hasnt been able to provide much information from the time of the sales. But I think its 
fair to say the client factfile documents it did give us only recorded very limited 
information (yes or no answers to some health questions) and without any reflection of 
Mr Cs financial circumstances or requirements other than  for the later three 
investments  he was topping up on his Savings Programmes. 
So, I looked at what was known, or most likely known, and whether, in my opinion, the 
advice given was right for Mr C. 
In its response to my provisional decision Sanlam has highlighted the benefits of the 
Savings Programmes, in particular the low cost of the life cover and that it was the term 
assurance itself that qualified it for tax purposes. While this may have been an 
advantage for some investors, I dont agree that overall, it was an important driver in    
Mr Cs requirements at the time. He was a first-time saver and I think most likely without 
any investment experience so I dont think the complexities in life assurance plans and 
potential tax advantages would have been in the forefront of his mind rather than his 
underlying known priority of the opportunity to save.
Sanlam has also referred to the potential that Mr C may have needed to have the life 
assurance for mortgage purposes. That might have been the case, but it cant be known 
for sure. And I think there are other elements of this complaint that are more compelling 
and more pertinent for me to consider in order for me to reach my decision. 
And I didnt think it was unreasonable to conclude that the investment itself  the 
Managed Fund  was of a medium risk. While it isnt necessarily the case that a medium 
level of risk is unsuitable for a first-time investor, I remain of the view, that overall, along 
with other elements of the Savings Programmes didnt make the advice suitable or that 
Mr C was advised with reasonable care or skill for the first sale. Notably that Im not 
persuaded that it was suitable to propose policies with exposure to an underlying 
medium risk fund comprising equities which needed to remain in force over the very long 
term  25 to 30 years  in order to give Mr C worthwhile returns. 
I dont think there needed to be such a risk taken or long-term commitment attached to 
Mr Cs savings. And equally I dont think it was unlikely that Mr Cs personal and financial 
circumstances would have changed significantly over the next 25 to 30 years. Such a 
commitment, just for the purposes of saving, in my opinion wasnt necessary. 
I dont think Sanlams comment about Mr C making a small loss on the fourth plan adds 
any weight for me to consider. That element was considered at the jurisdiction stage of 
the Financial Ombudsman considering the complaint. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr C as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To put the matter right, Sanlam needs to do the following;
For each of the four Savings Programmes, Sanlam should pay compensation of D + E, 
where:
A = a refund each of the monthly premiums paid to the dates of surrender;
B = a return on each premium in A at Bank of England base rate + 1% 
compounded yearly, from the date it was paid to the dates of surrender;
C = the value of the policies at the dates of surrender;
D = (A + B) - C = the investment loss (if appropriate) at the dates of settlement; 
and
E = interest at 8% per cent per year simple on D from the dates of surrender to 
the date the redress is paid.
Compensation for capital growth on the policy premiums in B is not usually subject to 
income tax. However, if Sanlam considers that tax is payable on the interest, it should send 
a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr C may reclaim any tax overpaid from        
HM Revenue and Customs if his tax status allows him to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Sanlam Financial Services UK 
Limited should put the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman