DRN-4364388
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (Accredited) 
declined their claim under home insurance policy following damage to their shower tray. For 
the avoidance of doubt, the term Accredited includes its agents, contractors, and 
representatives for the purposes of this decision letter. 
What happened
The shower tray in Mr and Mrs Ms bathroom was damaged in April 2023. They made a 
claim for the damage to Accredited as they had a home insurance policy with Admiral at the 
relevant time. Mr M said that the incident occurred when Mrs M was getting out of the 
shower and the shower tray was accidentally cracked, which in turn resulted in water 
staining to the ceiling below. Mr and Mrs M wanted Accredited to replace the shower tray 
and to repair the ceiling. Accredited declined the claim as it considered that the damage had 
been caused by wear and tear under an exclusion in the policy.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the insurers decision and referred their complaint to this 
service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She concluded 
that Accredited had acted fairly and reasonably in determining that damage to the shower 
tray was excluded under the policy due to wear and tear. She noted that Accredited had 
offered to consider the ceiling staining should Mr and Mrs M wish to pursue this option.
Mr M was very unhappy about the outcome of the complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the submission of the parties as summarised below. Mr M said that the 
incident occurred when Mrs M was getting out of the shower when somehow accidentally 
she cracked the shower tray which in turn resulted in water going through the ceiling into our 
kitchen. As Mr and Mrs M had accidental damage and escape of water cover in their 
policy, they considered they had a valid claim.
Mr and Mrs M said that the surveyor appointed by Accredited was very uninterested and 
rude and spent less than five minutes at their house. Having looked at the damage, the 
surveyor said that he would need to get some prices for the repair and left. Soon afterwards, 
Accredited left a telephone message with Mr and Mrs M to say that their claim had been 
declined. Mr and Mrs M were clear that the damage was accidental as it was unintentional 
and resulted in the shower being unable to perform the task it was designed to do. Mr and 
Mrs M also considered that Accredited had failed to send the required acknowledgment to 
comply with relevant complaint timescales and was generally very unhelpful. They said that 
everything had been done by Accredited via phone, voicemail, or its online portal, so Mr and 
Mrs M couldnt get documents very easily.
In Mr and Mrs Ms complaint to this service in June 2023, they said that Mr M had needed to 
take time out of his work day to chase Accredited. They still hadnt been able to fix the 
shower tray and didnt have a bath in the house. Due to work commitments, the shower was 
required on a daily basis. Mr and Mrs M said that the stress caused to the household had 
been immense and highlighted the familys health and other circumstances. They wanted 
Accredited to honour the claim, pay compensation for the stress and time it had caused 
them, to admit service failures and to provide appropriate staff training. 
As to the surveyors view that the shower wasnt in good condition, Mr M said the apparent 
condition was superficial as he hadnt been able to clean the shower since the incident, for 
fear of making it worse. As to the policy wording, Mr M said that The ambiguous wording 
including the use of wear and tear for anything is not acceptable. He thought that accidental 
damage was physical damage that happened out of the blue and was not done on purpose. 
He thought that discrimination had occurred here. 
I now turn to the Accredited submissions in relation to this matter. It referred to its surveyors 
report dated May 2023 as follows Acrylic shower trays are durable but do degrade over time 
and eventually fail. Looking at the condition of the shower tray this splitting has been caused 
through long term wear and tear. From a review of the surveyors photographs, Accredited 
said that the shower tray is seen to be in a very poor condition. All building materials will 
eventually fail, and this is what has happened on this occasion. It then referred to the 
specific exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy. It said that it was able consider 
the staining damage to the kitchen ceiling under additional accidental damage, but also said 
that it was likely that this work would fall below the cost of the excess under the policy. 
Ive also considered the surveyors report from early May 2023. This recorded that the 
bathroom in the property was in poor condition and new sealant was required around the 
shower tray. It also noted that The insured confirmed that nobody had fallen on it. It 
confirmed that the shower tray had split and that the insured had covered this with tape. It 
said that Acrylic does degrade over time dependent on cleaning materials and eventual[ly] 
fails.
The starting point for determining complaints of this nature is the wording of the policy itself. 
The policy terms and conditions refer to the definition of Accidental damage as follows, 
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which, happens at a specific time, was not 
deliberate; and was caused by something external and identifiable. As to relevant 
exclusions under the policy, this includes, ...gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage 
 wear and teargradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)costs that 
arise from using or maintaining your buildings and contents normally. 
Having considered, the policy schedule, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M had cover for 
accidental damage under their policy. However, I consider it likely that the damage which 
appeared in this case was due to gradual wear and tear or gradual deterioration rather than 
due to a sudden and unexpected event. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs M, policies dont cover 
for damage in all circumstances, and the exclusion clause in question is a standard clause 
found in home insurance policies.
Mr and Mrs M considered that the split in the shower tray had been sudden and unexpected. 
Mr M said that the incident occurred as his wife was getting out of the shower when 
somehow accidentally she cracked the shower tray. In the circumstances, no evidence has 
been offered by Mr and Mrs M as to the exact circumstances of any dramatic split. Theres 
no reason to believe that the damage was deliberate, however from Mr Ms own evidence, 
there was also nothing external or identifiable as per the terms of the policy to account for 
this damage.In the absence of any evidence to explain such accidental damage, we are usually 
persuaded by professional evidence such as the evidence of the surveyor in this case. He 
was clear that Acrylic does degrade over time dependent on cleaning materials and 
eventually fails and also, Looking at the condition of the shower tray this splitting has been 
caused through long term wear and tear. This may suggest that the shower tray had 
suffered weakening or hairline cracks over a period and that normal usage of a shower will 
eventually have led to a split in the structure. Therefore, in the absence of any persuasive 
evidence from Mr and Mrs M to suggest anything to the contrary, this provides the most 
authoritative expert evidence as to the likely cause of the damage in this case. 
 
The photographic evidence supports the report produced by the surveyor. I appreciate that 
Mr M said he hadnt wished to clean the shower in the interim period before the surveyor 
visited the property. Notwithstanding this however, the photographs indicate that the shower 
tray was in poor condition and exhibiting signs of wear and tear and appeared to have 
reached the end of its useful life. 
I now turn to the service issues experienced by Mr and Mrs M. Ive no reason to doubt Mr 
Ms impression that the surveyors visit had been cursory or that he felt that staff had been 
unhelpful. Also, I have no reason to doubt that the surveyor may have given an initial 
impression that the damage would be covered by stating that he would need to obtain prices 
for the repair. Nevertheless, this doesnt alter my final determination that Accredited has 
generally acted in a fair and reasonable manner. Im satisfied that Accredited provided its 
formal decision to decline the claim soon after the surveyors visit. I agree however that it 
wasnt ideal for an important message about the decline of a claim to have been left in a 
voicemail message. I trust that Accredited will now take on board improvements which it can 
make to its services in the light of Mr and Mrs Ms experience.
In conclusion, I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment and exasperation in relation to 
the way in which Accredited handled this mater. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs M however, I 
cant say that Accredited acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. As to the ceiling 
damage, I also cant say that Accredited acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in 
stating that it was able to consider this damage, but that the repairs were likely to fall below 
the cost of your excess. However, this is a matter which Mr and Mrs M may wish to revisit 
with their insurers, once the likely cost of the work is established. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I dont require 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to do anything else in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman