DRN-2652135
The complaint
Ms B complains about the service she received when she complained to Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, trading as Barclaycard.  
What happened
In 2016, Ms B had complained to Barclaycard about some transactions which she did not 
make nor recognise. In May 2016, Barclaycard wrote to her and agreed to refund four 
transactions made to merchant A totalling just under £600.  The transactions had taken 
place between 29th and 30th November 2015.
Ms B complained that transactions to merchant N had not been refunded  but Barclaycard 
said that the payments to N had not been included in the form which Ms B had submitted.  In 
any event, it subsequently refunded two transactions which had taken place on 1st February 
2016 and 1st March 2016.  A transaction to N made on 31st December 2015 was not 
refunded.
In a letter dated December 2019, Ms B wrote to Barclaycard saying that she had found a 
letter from them from 2016 asking for payment from her. She also complained that despite 
being issued with a new card, the payments to N had continued.
Barclaycard did not respond to this letter.  It said it hadnt received it.  It subsequently had a 
telephone call with Ms B and issued its final response to her complaint following this call. In 
this letter dated 7th May 2020, it summarised Ms Bs complaint points as follows:
- she was unhappy it had not responded to her letter from December 2019
- she was unhappy it had not refunded all the disputed transactions made to A, N and 
merchant E.
Barclaycard did not uphold her complaint.  It said it had never received communication 
regarding fraudulent transactions to E.  It invited Ms B to make this separate complaint so 
that it could investigate.  Of the refunds it had provided, it said it had also refunded the 
associated interest.
Ms B then came to this service.  She said she wanted a full refund of disputed transactions 
and to be compensated for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought Barclaycard could have done more.  It had not yet refunded the 
payment to N from December 2015.  And as it appeared to be accepted that the payments to 
N were fraudulent, he (the investigator) thought Barclaycard should now refund this, along 
with any associated interest.
Barclaycard agreed to this, but Ms B did not.  She said she wasnt satisfied that she had 
been properly reimbursed for the fraudulent transactions.  She also said she had been 
unable to raise a complaint about other transactions because Barclaycard had failed to send 
her the bank statements she had requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the purposes of this decision, I will only be dealing with Ms Bs complaint about the 
transactions to N.  If she has a complaint about other transactions, she needs to make them 
to Barclaycard, and it should be allowed the appropriate time to investigate.
This service is somewhat limited in its investigation as Barclaycard is unable to provide the 
details of Ms Bs original complaint.  I dont think that is unusual due to the time that has 
lapsed  so I will make a fair and reasonable decision based on the information which do 
have.
I can see refunds were issued to Ms B in respect of four payments to A and two payments to 
N. However, for some reason, Barclaycard is yet to refund the third payment to N.
As it accepted these payments were fraudulent, by virtue of the previous refunds, I think it 
ought to refund this payment too  along with any interest charged to the account as a result 
of all the payments having been taken.  At this point, it seems to me that Ms B will then have 
been refunded the disputed payments she has complained about so far.
I also think Barclaycard should pay MS B £50 for the time taken and the inconvenience 
caused in her having to bring this complaint as I see no reason why the December 2015 
payment had not been refunded earlier along with the others.
If there are additional payments which Ms B disputes, then as I said earlier, she needs to 
raise these with Barclaycard and allow it the appropriate time to investigate.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard must:
- refund the December 2015 payment to N in the sum of £7.49
- refund any interest and charges applied as a result of the payments to A and N
- pay Ms B £50 for the inconvenience caused in bringing this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman