DRN-4415202
The complaint
Mrs H, as Lasting Power Of Attorney (POA), complains on behalf of Mr B about Rixon
Matthews Appleyard (Financial Services) Limited, referred to as Rixons or the business.
In summary, she says:
Mr B is unhappy that the funds in his ISA were invested in cash for a number of 
years, whilst incurring charges.
Rixons failed to provide him with any advice or guidance about what to do with this 
money.
It failed to refer him to anyone, notwithstanding its concerns about his mental health 
and wellbeing.
What happened
In late September 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below 
and forms part of my final decision. In the decision, I said:  
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably such that this complaint should be upheld.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Bs (and Mrs Hs) strength of feeling about this matter. Mrs H has provided 
detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully.
However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs H and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Provisionally, Im not minded to uphold this complaint, in brief for the following reasons:
Notwithstanding what Mrs H says, in 2015 Mr B  of his own volition  decided to 
move his ISA into cash. He did so as result of concerns that he had about his SIPP 
and the financial markets. Its arguable that his actions were prudent in the 
circumstances in order to get his money out of the stock market and away from 
volatility. I note the business says it considered Mr B to be a low to no risk investor at 
the time, and certainly someone whose appetite for risk had declined  and was nil 
for this portion of his money.
Im aware that a separate complaint about the SIPP  involving a fund that was 
suspended and a fund that went into liquidation  was referred to us and upheld. This 
doesnt form a part of this complaint.
Ive also seen nothing to suggest that the advice to invest in the ISA  invested in the 
Schroders Gilt and Fixed Interest Fund  was unsuitable, although I appreciate this is 
not what the complaint is about.
Im satisfied that the business did what it was instructed to do. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr B wasnt of sound mind or capable of making his own decisions at 
the time. In the circumstances, I cant say that his instructions were outlandish or 
extraordinary.
I appreciate that Mr B was going through a difficult time in his personal life and 
exhibited some vulnerabilities, but this doesnt of itself mean that he wasnt aware of 
what he was doing, or that the business shouldnt have carried out his instructions. I 
note Mrs H was granted POA in early 2020 and his instructions were from 2015.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business shouldve questioned his instructions 
at the time  especially without an agreed timeframe. Or that it subsequently 
shouldve checked in with him at some point in the coming months or years as 
suggested, although it has not been made clear when. Theres no evidence thats 
what Mr B wanted or had agreed to with the business. On balance, the suggestion 
that the business would or should question Mr Bs decision of its own volition is 
unreasonable.
The above notwithstanding, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business shouldve 
provided ongoing advice and guidance, or that it did something wrong by not doing 
so. Contractually, I dont think it was under any obligation to question his decision at 
the time or subsequently, so despite what Mrs H says, it hasnt done anything wrong 
by not doing so. Im also aware that the business (as of 2015), ceased to take any 
advisory fees, which evidently meant that it had no obligation to offer advice  I dont 
think Mr B would expect to receive this or any service for free.
I note the point Mrs H makes about the platform fees. But thats not something I can 
blame the business for. A financial business is entitled to charge for a service, and on 
balance, its likely that Mr B wouldve known  or ought reasonably to have known  
that he was being charged a fee for this service, which is separate to being charged 
(or not charged) for advice. I note the business says the platform fees were a modest 
0.35% a year.
Unless there was a specific note on file about what the business should do if it cant 
get in touch (or didnt hear from Mr B), I think it was always for Mr B to decide what 
he wanted to do, and thereafter get in touch with the business and not the other way 
round.
Despite the purported challenges contacting Mr B, I note in or around 2017  roughly 
two years after he moved his ISA to cash  he got in touch with the business (again) 
regarding another matter, which the business assisted him with.
I note that Mr B didnt raise any issue about his cash, and neither did the business. In 
the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the business was wrong not to raise 
the issue about cash at that point.
If Mr B specifically wanted to do something with the money  such as re-investing  
he couldve asked the business to do so at the time but didnt  I note there was 
nothing stopping him from doing so if thats what he wanted to do. He also couldve 
sought additional advice about what he should/could do, but he didnt which on 
balance would suggest that he was content with matters as they were.
Its unlikely that if Mr B was incapable of making decisions, he wouldve got in touch 
about making cash withdrawals from another investment which he was clearly 
passionate about.
I appreciate what Mrs H says about the contact with Mr B, but in the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that the business has done anything wrong by not 
continuing to proactively get in touch him and advise him to invest, or sign post him 
elsewhere. I dont think the duty extends this far.
Even if it had, theres a likelihood that the business wouldve been blamed for any 
adverse consequences, given Mr Hs state of health, especially if the advice resulted 
in financial loss.
But the above notwithstanding, on balance I think given the SIPP situation and the 
actions taken thereafter, Mr B had probably lost faith in the business, so its unlikely 
that he wouldve followed any investment advice from it in any event.
Despite what Mrs H says about what the business ought to have done, I think its 
unlikely that it wouldve made a difference, even if it had done precisely what she 
asked for.
Without the benefit of hindsight, there was also no guarantee that reinvesting the 
money at the time (possibly in 2017) wouldve been beneficial.
I appreciate the business doesnt have more information about the ISA and any 
agreements between it and Mr B. But in the circumstances, and on balance, given 
the passage of time, its not something I can blame the business for. A financial 
business isnt required to retain information indefinitely, therefore it hasnt behaved 
unreasonably by not doing so.
I appreciate that Mr B (and Mrs H on his behalf) will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached 
the same original conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt
what he/they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate his/their frustration, Im not persuaded to 
require the business to do anything. In other words, on the face of the available evidence, 
and on balance, provisionally Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he 
wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mrs H responded and disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, she said:
There are some errors in my decision that might lead me to think differently about my 
decision. 
My conclusion has missed the point shes making because Ive asked the wrong 
question and got the wrong answer.
The questionnaire completed by Mr B shows:
oHe wouldve chosen the lowest risk investment. 
oHe couldnt stomach more than 5% to 10% risk. 
oIf an investment of £100,000 fell by 13%, he would sell and reinvest in 
something less volatile. 
He was met with losses of 50% from his SIPP, so is there any wonder he sold the 
Schroder Gilt and Fixed Interest fund to cash within his ISA. In his mind he had no 
choice  it was a panicked action.
Mr B didnt just have concerns, the SIPP was found by our service to be wholly 
unsuitable, costing Mr B significant financial loss of which Rixons has only repaid a 
fraction. It has let Mr B down given his no-risk or nil risk assessment 
Whilst the SIPP isnt a part of this complaint, it provides context. The decision in 
relation to the ISA wasnt taken in isolation. He wouldnt have sold the Schroder Gilt 
and Interest fund if he didnt get unsuitable advice re the SIPP. The business created 
the circumstances that led Mr B to act the way he did  shes not suggesting Mr B 
didnt know what the instructions meant. 
Theres no evidence Rixons ever told Mr B that they had stopped the fees. The fact 
he sought advice would suggest that he thought he had an ongoing relationship. Rixons shouldve written to him.
If he was aware that Rixons had turned off their fees he mightve thought that it was 
temporary or an attempt to atone for him losing money. 
Whilst I (as ombudsman) might think 0.35% is modest, she and Mr B dont agree. 
And she questions what service did he even get? He just got a cash account. He 
assumed the cash account didnt have a fee.    
Rixons got in touch with Mr B a number of times but didnt mention the money. Its 
not known if a note  regarding what the business should do if it cant get in touch 
with him or hasnt heard from him  existed because the file doesnt exist. The 
business shouldve written to him. 
Could I explain why I think the business wasnt wrong not to raise the point about the 
cash?
Mr B didnt properly understand how matters stood. Otherwise, he wouldnt have 
chosen 0% return and pay £440 a year. A layman on the street would think that the 
cash account didnt have fees.  
The business stopped doing anything the moment they stopped being paid for it. 
Rixons just took his instructions to move the fund to cash without question and then 
didnt offer a word of advice. They didnt make clear what advice was needed. 
Its very strange that I (as ombudsman) presume to say what Mr B wouldve done in 
different circumstances. But he wasnt incapable to listening to reason. If Rixons had 
told him that it couldnt help anymore and that he shouldve sought advice elsewhere, 
he wouldve done exactly this. 
Presumably Im not insulting her husband, but hed have to be an idiot to have done 
what he did.
Hed invested happily in the Gilt and Fixed interest fund until he lost half the value of 
his SIPP. Theres no reason to assume that he wouldve stopped without that bad 
piece of advice. Instead, he wouldve stayed invested until she took over his affairs 
and instructed a new adviser in 2020/2021.  
She accepts that firms dont keep information forever but shredding it during the six-
month referral period to the ombudsman seems like poor practice.   
Rixons also responded and accepted my provisional decision. It had no further points to 
make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mrs H, my decision not to 
uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
In other words, despite being given time to respond to my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that no new material points have been made that persuade me I should change my decision. 
In this instance, and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, in my provisional decision, so I dont need to go over material 
already covered in great detail.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, I still cant safely say 
that the business behaved unreasonably such that this complaint should be upheld. I am still 
not upholding the complaint for the following reasons:Theres no need to doubt what Mrs H says about the meaning of the answers to the 
risk questionnaire (that Mr B completed). But thats a separate matter to whether or 
not the business had an obligation to question his instructions, and whether it has 
done anything wrong by not doing so. In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont 
believe it has. Investors are entitled to make decisions that a business has no place 
questioning. So, for example, whether or not, it was a good idea selling after a 
market crash is not a reason not to do what Mr B asked the business to do. 
Despite what Mrs H says  about whether or not Mr B wouldve needed, or been 
tempted to, put funds into cash if he had accepted advice from Rixons  the point is 
that Mr B chose to do what he did and did so of his own volition, without any advice 
or guidance from Rixons - although its still arguable that it was a sensible course of 
action. 
In my provisional decision I made clear that Mr B did so as result of concerns that he 
had about his SIPP and the financial markets. Its arguable that his actions were 
prudent in the circumstances, in order to get his money out of the stock market and 
away from volatility. I note the business says it considered Mr B to be a low to no risk 
investor at the time, and certainly someone whose appetite for risk had declined  
and was nil for this portion of his money. Mr Bs instructions werent out of the 
ordinary or surprising, and so Rixons wouldnt have thought there was anything 
untoward in him taking the action he did.
Even if Mr Bs actions werent prudent, and the move didnt pay off  because of the 
level of returns and fees  on balance I think the chain of causation was (more likely 
than not) broken by Mr Bs (intervening) actions, therefore I cant agree that any 
losses are consequential losses for which the business is responsible. 
Despite what Mrs H says, on the face of the evidence and on balance, I think its 
unlikely that Mr B wouldnt have been told about the fee situation, but I think its likely 
that he had other things going on in his life, so it probably wasnt a priority in the way 
that the other matter was in relation to which he got in touch with the business.  
I note Mrs H says that if Mr B was aware that Rixons had turned off their fees he 
mightve thought that it was temporary or an attempt to atone for him losing money. 
Be that as it may, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was told this or led to believe 
that this would be the case. So, I cant blame Rixons for any conclusions that Mr B 
may have reached. 
Its possible that he (probably) wouldnt have left matters as they were and for as 
long as they were, had he not had other issues to deal with. But thats not something 
I can blame the business for. Rixons simply had no authority or remit to intervene in 
such situations, just because Mr Bs decision might not have been the most 
financially viable option for him. As I said in my provisional decision, there was 
nothing to suggest that Mr B didnt know what he was doing, or that Rixons shouldve 
questioned his decision.
In any case, I note he got in touch with the business, regarding an issue that he 
wanted to address, and the matter was dealt with. As I mentioned in my provisional 
decision Mr B couldve raised the issue regarding the cash account, but didnt, which 
suggests that he was content with where the money was. Whether or not he was isnt 
something that I can blame the business for. 
Ultimately, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Rixons shouldve questioned Mr Bs 
instructions at the time  especially without an agreed timeframe. Or that it 
subsequently shouldve checked in with him at some point in the coming months or 
years as suggested, although it has not been made clear when. Theres no evidence 
thats what he wanted or had agreed to with the business. On balance, I still think 
that any suggestion that the business would or should question Mr Bs decision of its 
own volition is unreasonable. 
Despite what Mrs H says, on balance I still think, given the SIPP situation and the 
actions taken thereafter, Mr B had probably lost faith in Rixons, so its unlikely that he wouldve followed any investment advice from it in any event. So, despite what Mrs H 
says, I still think its unlikely Mr B wouldve listened to Rixons.  
Despite what Mrs H says about what the business ought to have done, on balance I 
still think its unlikely that it wouldve made a difference, even if it had done precisely 
what she asked for. 
I appreciate what Mrs H says about Rixons not retaining information, but Ive seen no 
evidence that it (deliberately) destroyed the file during the six-month referral period.  
I appreciate that Mr B (and Mrs H on his behalf) will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive not 
been persuaded to change my mind. 
Furthermore, I still realise my decision isnt what he/they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate 
his/their frustration, Im not persuaded to require Rixons to do anything. In other words, on 
the face of the available evidence, and on balance I cant uphold this complaint and give him 
what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman