DRN-1465666
 
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Metlife Europe d.a.c. has unfairly rejected her claim. 
What happened
Mrs S has a personal accident insurance policy with Metlife. She made a claim for a 
fractured fibula. 
Metlife reviewed the claim and asked Mrs S consultant for further information. When it 
received answers to its questions, it declined the claim on the basis that there was no 
definite diagnosis of a fracture and because there was no identifiable accident.
Mrs S complained to Metlife and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Metlife had done anything 
wrong as it had assessed the claim in line with the policy terms.  
Mrs S says she has suffered with a broken bone and so Metlife should pay out. She says 
she tripped and hurt her leg and the doctor confirmed she had a fractured bone and so she 
doesnt understand why the claim is being declined. She says she is sure she mentioned the 
accident at the hospital but doesnt know why it wasnt noted down. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Metlife has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy says:
In the event of you suffering an accident, subject to the policy terms and conditions, the 
policy provides a lump sum for the following insured events:
a broken bone, which can be evidenced by an x-ray or other suitable clinical 
diagnosis
 
Accident is defined as: a sudden identifiable event operating by violent external and visible 
means, which happens by chance and which could not be expected.Mrs S submitted her claim form to Metlife and under the accident claims section she noted 
the date of the accident as the 15 November 2018 with pain in left knee.
Under the section where did this accident happen? she has noted n/a. The form also asks 
for an explanation of how the accident happened and Mrs S has again noted n/a.
For Mrs S claim to meet the conditions of the policy, she would have to show that she 
sustained a fracture and that it was caused by an accident. 
Ive seen that Metlife wrote to the treating consultant and asked further questions about the 
injury. It asked the consultant whether the fracture could have been caused by hitting her 
knee several times at work. The consultant responded to say it was unlikely that any fracture 
would be caused as a result of that. The consultant also said it wasnt possible to state that 
any facture was definitely sustained although it was possible. He said this injury was 
normally caused by a traumatic twist or impact to the knee.
In relation to whether an accident had occurred the consultant said he had checked Mrs S 
notes when she first attended the emergency department at the hospital and it was recorded 
that she started getting left lower leg pain 2 days ago, has gradually gotten worse, now 
unable to walk on, no injury or trauma.
Based on the consultants response, together with the claim form Mrs S completed, Metlife 
declined the claim on the basis that a) there was no definite fracture and b) there was no 
identifiable accident/event which caused the injury.
Metlife has explained why it declined the claim and also obtained further information from a 
consultant before explaining that Mrs S claim didnt meet the policy conditions. Mrs S clearly 
has suffered from some injury and I am sorry to hear of the difficulties she has faced as a 
result. But Mrs S hasnt been able to prove that the injury was sustained as a result of a 
sudden and identifiable event  her claim form and the hospital notes suggest the pain came 
on gradually. And although Mrs S later explained she had hit her knee at work, the 
consultant didnt think the fracture would be caused as a result of that. And so unfortunately 
for Mrs S, her claim doesnt meet the policy conditions.  
Im satisfied Metlife has based its decision on the evidence provided by Mrs S and the 
hospital consultant and so I dont think Metlife has declined the claim unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mrs S complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman