DRN-3082336
The complaint
Mr W complains that an adviser from HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-advised him into investing into 
two open ended investment companies (OEICs) in 2004 and 2007.  
Mr W says the proposed investments represented far more risk than he was willing to take  
and he was only recently made aware of this when speaking with a new investment manager 
in 2020. He also says the adviser did not make him aware of the implications of capital gains 
tax if money was withdrawn from the OEICs.   
What happened
Mr W was advised in September 2004 to invest £600 per month - £300 each for two 
grandchildren  into an OEIC, with the capital placed in the Janus Henderson Gartmore 
Emerging Markets Opportunity Fund (the Henderson fund). A withdrawal was made in June 
2020 of £10,000. 
Three years later, Mr W was advised by HSBC to invest a further £300 per month for 
another grandchild into a new OEIC  this time with funds placed into the Lazard Emerging 
Markets Opportunity Fund. No withdrawals have been made from this fund. 
In June 2020, Mr W complained. HSBC rejected the complaint in October 2020. It said 
although the risk associated with the investments was higher than Mr W was usually 
prepared to take, the reasons for doing so were clearly documented, the associated risks 
were explained and it was the length of time that Mr W was intending to hold the investments 
that drove his decision to take them out as he had a greater capacity to absorb losses.    
It also said it had undergone reviews of the investments periodically, such as in 2015 and 
2018  but it hadnt heard from Mr W. In 2018 he had met with a relationship manager at 
HSBC but declined a full and further review. HSBC did offer Mr W £400 for the length of time 
it took to address the complaint but otherwise maintained its advice had been reasonable.
The complaint was brought to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and felt it 
ought to succeed. She concluded that on both occasions Mr W had been prepared to take 
some risk to achieve his long term objective of having funds for when his grandchildren 
reached adulthood. However, she said that the recommendations from the adviser 
presented too much risk  the investments were placed into emerging markets equity funds 
without diversification and she didnt think Mr W appreciated how these operated.   
The investigator said that given Mr W was prepared to take some risk with the investments, 
HSBC should undertake a comparison with the performance of the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index until October 2020, when the OEICs were transferred. 
HSBC questioned the date of the redress for the 2007 OEIC, as it was removed from 
servicing rights for the Lazard fund in November 2012. It also said that it disagreed Mr W 
was a medium risk investor as had been suggested by the investigator  it now felt he was 
best described as a low risk investor, as he had set out himself. The redress comparison 
should therefore be based on a benchmark for a low risk investor, not the index proposed.
If he was able to take a medium risk, then HSBC said the recommendations wouldnt have 
been unsuitable as per its original complaint response. That was because as a medium risk 
investor, the recommendation would have been suitable given the longer term nature of the 
intended investments, Mr Ws employment, wealth and capacity for loss. 
Our investigator reviewed this further and wasnt persuaded to change her view. She said 
whilst she appreciated there may have been different servicing agents after 2012 for the 
Lazard fund, there wasnt any evidence to show his investments were reviewed or that 
additional advice was provided. She felt the calculation should run to October 2020. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr W and HSBC and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice but Im not bound by this. In undertaking a fresh review, its for me 
to decide, based on the information Ive been given, if HSBCs adviser made suitable 
recommendations in 2004 and 2007.  
HSBC recognises itself that Mr W was an inexperienced investor, with his only previous 
experience of investment being within capital guaranteed products where his funds would 
have been protected by the gains and losses of the stock market. However, it now reflects 
that Mr W shouldnt have been advised to take out either OEIC if he was a low risk investor. 
Mr W was recorded as having an income of £150,000 as a director of his own business. He 
had no mortgage on his home, and no financial dependants. He had invested previously but 
in capital guaranteed products  at the time of the first advice he had £60,854 in a 
guaranteed bond. In 2004, he was also recorded as having a further £9,740 in deposit 
accounts. His disposable income was £1,500 per month in 2004 and £1,400 in 2007.  
The documentation shows that Mr W had the financial capacity and time to consider an 
investment which took a greater degree of risk, in order to achieve his objective of long term 
capital growth to provide funds for his grandchildren. This is supported by the suitability 
reports, for example that of 10 August 2004. There will be a point at which all investors 
undertake investment decisions for the first time, and I think that in these circumstances the 
medium risk profile for Mr W was accurate  but the investment advice didnt match that 
profile.  
On the face of the evidence, Im not persuaded that the recommendation to invest in either 
OEIC was suitable in the circumstances. The risk profile questionnaire completed by Mr W in 
2007 notes his tolerance for making a potential loss, as well as a large gain for which some 
risk would be required. However, he confirmed he would like an investment that considered 
UK equities.  
As our investigator explained, the funds selected within each OEIC as guided by the adviser 
were patently too risky for the objective that Mr W required. Each had more than 95% 
exposure to equities in emerging markets, presenting a particularly high degree of market volatility. I believe, that, coupled with the fact Mr W did not appreciate or understand the 
CGT implications when disposing of the investments, showed these were not suitable for 
him in the circumstances.  
Turning to the proposed redress, I note HSBC argues that the redress calculation ought to 
differ because it can only apply if Mr W was a low risk investor. I disagree with that. It has 
been shown on the information available that both Mr W and the adviser categorised Mr Ws 
risk appetite as medium  and I think that did fit his position given his capacity for loss, 
finances and objectives. 
This was reflected in the advice  for example in 2007 where it was set out that Mr W 
confirmed that our definition of medium risk best described the approach you wish to take. 
You are a balanced investor who is willing to accept a reasonable amount of risk with your 
money, holding a balanced portfolio of equities, bonds and cash instruments. You are also 
willing to accept a greater risk of losses for the benefits of potential gains over the longer 
term.
On that basis, the appropriate comparison is to measure the return against an income index 
with a greater diversification of asset classes, and our benchmark at this service for this is 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. I disagree that a 50/50 split or full 
comparison with fixed rate bonds is appropriate  that would be the case where Mr W had 
wanted a low risk or no risk with his investment and that isnt the position here.  
Finally, whilst I recognise that the servicing rights were transferred in 2012 away from HSBC, 
Mr W didnt receive any ongoing advice from HSBC until that date, or after. Servicing rights 
were transferred to a different advisory business in 2012, and a further business in 2020. But 
that does not alter that HSBC is liable for the investment advice and for Mr Ws capital being 
placed in the Lazard fund when it was not suitable to do so. The funds remained with Lazard 
until they were transferred to Minster Nominees on 14 October 2020. The redress calculation 
ought therefore to carry up to that date.  
I note HSBC otherwise accepts a calculation to October 2020 for the 2004 Henderson OEIC.  
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr W 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should HSBC do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, HSBC must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
HSBC should also pay interest as set out below.Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Janus
Henderson
Emerging
Markets
Opportunity
FundtransferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred 
(October 
2020)8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Lazard
Emerging
Markets
Opportunity
FundtransferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred 
(October 
2020)8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
  
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.Determination and award: 
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr W the amount produced by 
that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest set out above.
 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I 
recommend that HSBC UK Bank Plc pays Mr W the balance plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. It is unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr W may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman