DRN-3827095
The complaint
 A limited company and charity which Ill refer to as H complains that Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) acted unfairly when they placed a restriction on its account (the Account). 
In bringing this complaint H is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr N
  
What happened
 In January 2020, in connection with their Know Your Business (KYB) review, Lloyds 
contacted H and enclosed a form requesting various items of information the bank needed 
for the review. H completed the form and returned it to Lloyds. However, Lloyds didnt think 
all the information they needed had been provided. So, in March 2020 and again April 2021 
the bank wrote to H to ask for the missing information. But the information was still not 
provided in full. 
On 4 May 2022 in a further letter to H, Lloyds enclosed a new form similar to the one theyd 
sent in January 2020. H was asked to compete and return it to Lloyds by 8 July 2022. In their 
letter Lloyds added that they wouldnt be able to continue offering banking services to H if by 
that date H didnt provide all the information that had been requested.   
On 8 July 2022, with the information still outstanding Lloyds placed a restriction on the 
Account. 
On Hs behalf Mr N complained to Lloyds about their action saying, it was unfair because H 
didnt receive the 4 May letter. Lloyds told Mr N that in June 2022 they also attempted to 
contact him by phone. But Mr N maintained that at the time this occurred he was abroad, 
and roaming on his phone was switched off for the duration. He said when he did return to 
the UK, the banks text did come through, but it only asked him to call the bank. He said 
Lloyds did not explain why this was important. Mr N also believed that, Lloyds could have 
used other forms of communication to reach him, such as e-mail or perhaps make contact 
through Hs on-line banking which in all likelihood hed have received.   
Lloyds lifted the restriction on the Account on 14 July 2022. However, regarding the 
substance of Hs complaint Lloyds didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said they 
have an obligation to carry out KYB reviews in order to make sure they hold up to date 
information about their customers. And to that end they referred to the unsuccessful 
attempts they made to contact H, including on 4 May, the text message sent to Mr N in June 
2022 asking him to contact the bank. Lloyds maintained that having received no response 
from H they appropriately placed a restriction on the Account.
Since the complaint couldnt be resolved, Mr N referred it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Lloyds attempted 
unsuccessfully to contact H for the information they needed for the KYB review. He didnt 
think the bank acted unfairly when having not been provided with the information it had 
asked for it restricted the Account. 
Although the investigator was sympathetic to Mr Ns argument that the bank could have e-
mailed him or used other forms of communication, he felt Lloyds were entitled to use their 
own means of communication and he didnt think he could tell the bank what was most 
appropriate for its customers.  
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, he said Lloyds could have 
made greater efforts to obtain Hs response before placing a restriction on the Account. And 
he believed the banks decision was, in any event, disproportionate to Hs delay in providing 
the information Lloyds had requested. Mr N also maintained that the bank should be 
required to demonstrate not only that its 4 May letter was sent to H but that it was delivered 
as well. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
In the provision of accounts to their customers, Lloyds have important on-going legal and 
regulatory obligations that theyre required to comply with. KYB reviews is one of them. 
In conducting such reviews, the bank is entitled to ask for such information as is required to 
complete them successfully. To that end, in Hs case as noted above, Lloyds first contacted 
H in January 2020 enclosing the form H needed to complete and return to the bank. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter and the form that accompanied it. Both arrived safely at the 
time and Mr N was able to complete and return the form to Lloyds. 
It was then a matter for Lloyds to determine whether all the information they needed to 
complete the KYB review had been provided and it is the banks case that there were gaps 
in the information received from H.  In the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for 
the bank to contact H again to ask for the outstanding information and Im satisfied Lloyds 
did so in March 2020 and April 2021. Furthermore, and relevant to the circumstances of this 
complaint, the request was repeated on 4 May when in their letter Lloyds told H what the 
consequence of Hs noncompliance would be. 
I appreciate it is Mr Ns case that H did not receive the 4 May letter. But having seen a copy 
Ive noted it had the correct correspondence address for H. In fact, it was the same address 
used by Lloyds in the January 2020 letter that the bank sent to H which at the time arrived 
safely. 
That being said, Im aware that on occasions post does get lost in transit. Therefore, I dont 
agree with Mr N that unless Lloyds can demonstrate the letter was received by H it follows 
Lloyds were at fault for restricting the Account when they didnt receive Hs response. Lloyds 
made clear in the 4 May letter the action they would take if H did not respond with the 
information they needed. H did not. That being the case, Im not persuaded Lloyds acted 
unfairly when they restricted the Account. 
Ive also borne in mind that Lloyds didnt just rely on Hs failure to respond to their 4 May 
letter as the basis for taking the action they did. As Ive also noted the bank attempted to 
contact Mr N personally by text message. Mr N acknowledged that on his return to the UK 
he did receive Lloyds message asking him to contact them, but the bank hadnt explained why. However, Mr N could have called the bank to find this out. Its unfortunate he didnt but 
I cannot reasonably blame the bank for that. 
Ive thought about Mr Ns argument that the bank ought also to have tried to make contact by 
e-mail or through on-line banking. Lloyds did not do that but relied on their letter and text.  
However, in the overall circumstances of this case Im satisfied Lloyds made reasonable 
efforts to contact H to obtain the missing information. And they indicated in their 4 May letter 
the consequence of not providing the information by the given date. So, when by 8 July the 
information had not been provided, I do not find that Lloyds acted unfairly when they placed 
a restriction on the Account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman