DRN-1783442
The complaint
Ms G complains about mistakes made by Bank of Ireland Plc, trading as Post Office 
Financial Services (the bank), when she opened an Instant Saver Account. 
What happened
In June 2019, Ms G and her husband sent two cheques and two application forms to the 
bank in one envelope, to open two savings accounts. The bank didnt allocate the cheques 
as Ms G and her husband had planned though, which meant Ms Gs account couldnt be 
opened. 
Ms G sent a new cheque and a new application form in July, and raised a complaint about 
the mix-up. But the new application was missing a few details. The bank sent out a form to 
fill in and return to fix this, but there seems to have been a printing error that cut off one of 
the bits to fill in. 
Ms G added this to her complaint, feeling the missing details could simply have been taken 
from her first application form. The savings account was opened in August. 
The bank responded to the complaints and accepted there had been some mistakes. They 
offered Ms G £40 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. Ms G didnt feel this did 
enough to acknowledge the issues, so she brought the matter to us.
Our investigator saw the service issues were mainly agreed, so focussed on what remedy 
was needed. She felt £40 for the trouble and upset caused was the right amount, but said 
the bank should also compensate Ms G for the interest she lost while the opening of the 
account was delayed. 
Ms G has told us shes got no comments on that view. The bank said they felt that as the 
interest being considered was about four pence, their £40 offer was the right overall figure. 
This has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why I feel an overall figure of £40 is right to remedy Ms Gs complaints. 
I can see the banks handling of the two cheques they were sent meant Ms Gs application 
didnt work, when with a little more thought it could have. That did cause a delay, as Ms G 
had to send a new cheque and application form. So the remedy for this case should think 
about what impact that delay had on Ms G.
I can see the bank accept that they could have completed the second application without 
asking for more information if theyd gone back and used details from the first application 
form. This adds a bit to the delay. But I accept what the bank say in response to the investigators views, about how much 
delay there was opening the savings account. Theyve shown me that they backdated the 
interest on the money to the date when the second cheque cleared, which was in July 
shortly after Ms G sent it to them. So any loss in interest only runs from June to July, a 
period of approximately three weeks. 
I accept the banks calculation that this comes to four pence gross. Ive thought about what 
that means for a remedy, given the banks comments in response to the investigators views.
Breaking things down into pennies feels disproportionate with the scale of this matter. I much 
prefer to take a less formal approach, and arrive at a single figure that will take account of 
very small financial losses together with the emotional impact on Ms G. Picking that figure is 
informed by the scale of the loss, but its also a matter of opinion.
Here, Ms G had to send a couple of extra letters. Her plans were put back a few weeks. She 
suffered no significant financial loss, but was clearly annoyed by the lack of thought being 
put into what the bank did. But everything was eventually sorted out and the account was 
opened. 
Holding that next to the £40 the bank have offered, I find its a suitable figure to recognise 
the overall impact on Ms G as a result of the poor service. So Im going to say its enough to 
recognise the combined trouble, upset, and very small financial losses Ms G has suffered. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint about Bank of Ireland Plc. Their offer of £40 for 
Ms G is a fair remedy for the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman