DRN-3347974
The complaint
Mr Z, on behalf of Company G (a limited company, of which he is the sole director), is 
unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse Company G after he transferred 
money to a fraudster as part of a scam.
For simplicity, although this is a complaint by Company G about its business account, I will 
refer to the director, Mr Z, rather than the limited company through much of this decision
 as it was Mr Z who interacted with the fraudster.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 to explain why I thought Company Gs 
complaint should be partially upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to 
give me. This is an extract from that provisional decision:
Mr Z was the victim of a scam and thats accepted by everyone. As its not in dispute that 
what happened to Mr Z was an act of fraud, Ive used the term fraudster to refer to the 
third party involved.
In December 2019, Mr Z received a call from someone who said they were calling from 
HSBC - his bank. The caller called on a recognised HSBC number, however, it wasnt the 
number HSBC usually called Mr Z from. Mr Z pointed this out and the caller apologised 
and promptly called back on the premier banking number  which Mr Z checked on the 
back of his card. Mr Z says this led him to believe he was speaking to HSBC. Mr Z cant 
specifically recall what personal information the caller knew about the account but he does 
remember that the caller knew various account balances.
The caller said they were from HSBCs internal fraud team  a small and secret 
department within the bank that specialised in internal fraud. Mr Z has told us he did have 
some initial suspicions about who he was speaking with and asked for the employee 
numbers of the two members of HSBC staff who he was told he was speaking with that 
day. Mr Z was provided with two employee numbers.
The caller told Mr Z that numerous suspicious transactions had been identified on his 
business account - which had now been frozen pending investigation. The caller explained
that Mr Z needed to actively transfer money from his business account to safe accounts at 
another bank which would ultimately result in the attempted fraudulent transactions being 
cancelled.
The caller also told Mr Z that it was a member of HSBC staff at his local branch that was 
believed to be committing theft and there was an investigation underway. Mr Z was told 
the police were involved and under the terms and conditions of his account he had an 
obligation to assist with the investigation. Mr Z was told things had to move quickly as the 
police were already monitoring the member of staffs activities via CCTV in branch. Mr Z 
was then instructed to make a payment of £9,900 to a safe account. Mr Z duly logged 
into the account and made the payment as requested.
After the first payment of £9,900 and after ending the call with the fraudster, Mr Z became 
concerned about fraud. Hes told us that at this point, he spoke to his wife about the call 
hed just received. Mr Z has told us this was a very brief conversation and that he didnt 
tell his wife that hed already transferred some money as he was a little embarrassed 
about it. Mr Z has told us that his wife said that the call sounded dodgy and that he 
should call the police.
Having spoken to his wife, Mr Z decided to call Action Fraud but changed his mind and 
called HSBC instead. After being placed on hold for a while, Mr Z eventually got through 
to an advisor. There is no record of this conversation and so I cant be sure of what was 
discussed but Mr Z has told us that he queried the two the employee numbers hed been 
given by the fraudster. Mr Z was told that the numbers provided to him were too short to 
be HSBC employee numbers and that he would be transferred through to the business 
banking department. But, whilst on hold, Mr Z received another call from the fraudster. 
When Mr Z answered, he was told:
We have just had a flag on your account and can see you have called in to customer 
service, you completed security checks, and you asked about staff ID numbers. Please 
do not be concerned, but this is sensitive, as you can see, we have total visibility.
Mr Z says this reassured him that he was speaking with genuine HSBC as he didnt see 
how it was possible that anyone other than HSBC couldve known that he had called 
HSBC or what hed discussed. Mr Z told the fraudster what the HSBC call-handler had 
said about the employee numbers being too short but the fraudster reassured him that 
the internal fraud team was secret due to the nature of its work, and the personal banking 
team, who he had got through to, wouldnt know about their employee numbers or have 
access to any information about them. Reassured, Mr Z continued to speak with the 
fraudsters.
Mr Z says had been speaking with the fraudster for a number of hours when he was told 
to go into branch and transfer £29,700 to what they described as a dummy account. He 
was told the person under suspicion would be on the till in branch and would deal with 
the transaction - her actions being monitored whilst the transfer took place so the police 
could see if she was stealing. Mr Z was told that he must assist with the investigation or 
his money was at risk. Mr Z drove to his local branch to make the transfer were branch 
staff agreed to raise his daily transfer limit to £30,000. During his time in branch, he left 
his mobile telephone on, so the fraudster could monitor the conversations he was having.
Mr Z then left the branch with the intention of completing the payment online at home 
but was instructed by the fraudsters to go back in and complete a CHAPS transfer as 
they needed the staff member under suspicion to deal with the transaction. He went 
back into the branch and made the transfer  he says without any comment or 
questions from HSBC staff. Later in the afternoon, the fraudsters told Mr Z that he made 
the first branch payment with the wrong cashier and needed to go back in. And so later 
the same day, Mr Z went back into the branch and made a further payment of £20,000 
with a different cashier.
When he got home, Mr Z was instructed to make another payment online for £10,000 
and then his money would be returned to him. This brought the total amount transferred 
out of Zs account to £69,600. After the final transfer, Mr Z received no further contact 
from the fraudsters and it was at this point that he realised he had been scammed and 
contacted HSBC.Following an investigation, HSBC agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr Z lost as it 
didnt think it had done enough to prevent him/Company G from falling victim to the 
scam. It went on to say that Mr Z should bear the remaining responsibility for his loss  
as he had failed to carry out reasonable checks before transferring the money out of 
Company Gs account. They also offered Mr Z £50 in compensation due to a small 
administrative error that took place whilst the investigation was on-going.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr Z brought the complaint to our service. He said 
he felt himself to be vulnerable at the time as he was working alone and hadnt had 
anyone who he could speak with in order to break the spell woven by the fraudsters.
One of our investigators looked into things and felt the complaint should be upheld in 
full and that HSBC should offer Company G a full refund of the amount lost. Our 
Investigator didnt think HSBC had been able to adequately prove that Mr Z had acted 
without the requisite level of care.
HSBC disagreed and it provided extensive submissions to this service as to why. 
In summary, HSBC said:
Mr Zs account of what happened was uncorroborated and shouldnt be taken 
at face-value.
The investigator had failed to recognise that the customer in this case was 
Company G and not Mr Z  HSBC pointed out that higher standards are expected 
of commercial customers in respect of protecting themselves from fraud and the 
investigator had not commented on whether the companys internal fraud 
procedures were inadequate or not. HSBC said there was no evidence that the 
correct company procedures had been followed.
Mr Zs individual characteristics had not been taken into account  Mr Z 
was a sophisticated individual with extensive business experience.
HSBC said it did not make sense that Mr Z had been called from the personal 
banking line as this was a business account. When Mr Z pointed out that the 
number calling was unusual, the ability of the fraudster to change the number at 
will shouldve been a red-flag.
Mr Z did nothing to independently verify what he was told during the scam calls  
apart from the brief call to HSBC where he questioned the staff employee 
numbers he had been provided with. HSBC feel that rather than reassuring Mr Z, 
this conversation should have heightened his concerns and prompted further 
verification on his behalf - but he continued to make payments.
HSBC said there was no understandable rationale for the payments and the story 
provided by the caller was unbelievable. HSBC felt it was unclear why Mr Z would 
be asked by the bank to move his money to an account that wasnt in his name or 
why the bank wouldve needed the involvement of Mr Z, and his money, in a 
secret police investigation.
HSBC pointed out that Mr Z had made various comments throughout the course 
of its investigation that indicated he was suspicious of the story and the actions 
of the fraudster from the beginning.
Overall, HSBC felt it was clear that Mr Z was suspicious from the outset, and alarm bells 
ought to have rung when he was told that the employee numbers he had been given werent HSBC employee numbers. Yet he failed to verify what he was told and instead 
made a number of payments to three non-HSBC accounts - despite the story being told to 
him being unbelievable.
Our investigator considered what HSBC said but he didnt change his mind.
As an agreement could not be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am currently minded to reach a different outcome to that of our 
investigator  in that I think the complaint should only be partially upheld. However, it has 
also come to light during the course of my investigation that the second payment of 
£29,700 has been recovered by the receiving bank and should now be returned to 
Company G. Ill set out my current thinking in more detail below:
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and the customers account terms 
and conditions. But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to 
reimburse its customer, even though the payment(s) were authorised.
Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code), which HSBC is a signatory of, it should reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams, except in limited circumstances.
In considering this, I have taken account of whether HSBC ought to have reimbursed Mr 
Z/Company G under the provisions of the CRM code, and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Mr Z/Company G from potential financial harm from fraud. The Code also 
places a level of care on Mr Z/Company G, and so I have also considered whether Mr Z 
met the required level of care also.
The CRM Code
The CRM code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this one, in all but 
limited circumstances. If HSBC declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for HSBC 
to establish that its customer failed to meet the requisite level of care under one, or 
more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person/business with whom they transacted with was legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here.HSBC has already told us that it failed to provide Mr Z with an effective warning prior to 
the payments being made and for this reason it has already offered to reimburse 
Company G 50% of its total losses. Therefore, the only thing left for me to consider is if Mr 
G met the requisite level of care required of him under the code.
Did Mr Z have a reasonable basis for belief? Payment 1 - £9,900
Under the CRM code, HSBC can choose not to reimburse Mr Z in full if it doesnt believe he 
took the requisite level of case to ensure he had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
business he was paying was legitimate. It isnt enough for Mr Z to have believed that he was 
paying a legitimate person/business, he had to have a reasonable basis for that belief.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations that Mr Z did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing he was making a payment to a genuine source, but, in terms of the first 
payment at least, I dont agree. In particular, Im not persuaded Mr Z failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse him in full under the 
terms of the CRM Code. In reaching this conclusion, Ive had regard to the scene that was 
set by the fraudster and the impact I believe this reasonably had on Mr Z when acting in 
the moment. Ill explain why:
It appears the fraudster used social engineering techniques in order to gain Mr 
Zs trust, they appeared to be calling from a recognised HSBC number or at 
least one that was very similar by way of spoofing. This means that the 
fraudster was able to mimic a genuine number used by HSBC. This can be 
particularly persuasive to customers who often arent aware this is possible. I 
dont agree with HSBC that the fraudster appearing to call from one HSBC 
number and then another shouldve been a red-flag here, as I wouldnt expect a 
layperson, such as Mr Z, to know whether this would be possible or not.
The caller was able to provide Mr Z with information that he thought only his 
bank would know  such as the balances of his account(s).
Mr Z was on the call with the fraudsters for over an hour, they had created an 
environment where Mr Z had felt his money to be at risk and that he needed to 
act quickly in order to protect it. Mr Z did challenge the caller  requesting 
employee numbers to test their legitimacy. And I dont think HSBC has given 
enough consideration to the fact the fraudster had created an environment 
where Mr Z thought he had to act quickly to protect his money. Hes told us that 
the caller was professional and convincing. The convincing nature of these 
scams can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process and 
make them take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise 
take.
In summary, I find that Mr Z did have a reasonable basis for believing the first 
transaction he made was being made in connection with a legitimate service. I havent 
seen anything here to persuade me that just because Mr Z was acting in the capacity of 
a director of a business, that it would make him any less susceptible to this type of 
scam. Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that Mr Z acted without a 
reasonable basis for belief when he sent the first payment and so Im currently minded 
to recommended that it should be refunded in full.
Did Mr Z have a reasonable basis for belief? Payments 2, 3 and 4
In terms of payments 2, 3 and 4. I have reached a different conclusion to the one above 
and to the one reached by our Investigator. By payment 2, I dont think Mr Z had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was making payments at the request of HSBC and I agree with HSBC that he failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to 
now reimburse Company G in full under the terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why.
Mr Z has told us that after making the first payment, his call with the fraudsters ended. 
Hes told us he was concerned about fraud, he felt the call to have been strange and that 
he needed a break - and potentially to speak with someone else. It was at this point Mr Z 
spoke to his wife. He has told us she informed him that call sounded dodgy and advised 
him to call the police. And so, after the initial call, Im persuaded that Mr Z did have some 
time to further consider what he had been told by the fraudsters. He was suspicious 
enough to run what had happened past his wife who also concluded that the call was 
suspicious.
Acting on these suspicions, Mr Z contacted genuine HSBC who confirmed that the staff 
numbers he had taken from the fraudster were too short to be HSBCs. I agree with 
HSBC that this should have heightened Mr Zs concerns as to who he had previously 
been speaking to.
Whilst I acknowledge what Mr Z has told us about the fraudsters calling back at this point, 
apparently aware that he had contacted HSBC to make further enquires and it was this 
that reassured him he was speaking with HSBC, Im not satisfied this was reasonable. At 
this point, it appears that Mr Z had significant concerns and these concerns had been 
mirrored by his wife who had told him to call the police. Hed then independently spoken 
with a genuine HSBC member of staff who had told him the employee numbers hed been 
provided with could not be HSBC employee numbers. And so by this point, I think there 
were shouldve been significant genuine concerns that shouldve prompted further 
verification by Mr Z and I dont think him questioning the fraudster about the employee 
numbers when they called back was good enough  he had simply asked the fraudsters 
whether what they had told him was correct and sought no further independent 
verification.
I also think the reason for the payments given from this point should have been cause for 
concern  especially in light of the findings I have made above. I agree with HSBC that its 
unclear why HSBC and the police would need one of its customers to use their own 
money in order to catch someone they suspected of fraud. Its also unclear why a 
customer would need to carry out numerous high-value transfers in order to catch this 
member of staff. And I think this shouldve prompted some concern from Mr Z. There 
were a number of red-flags here.
But Mr Z hasnt provided any evidence to show he carried out any sort of due diligence 
before deciding to make the transfers at the fraudsters request  over and above the one 
call to genuine HSBC which shouldve undermined what the fraudsters had told him. So, 
whilst I acknowledge that Mr Z was ultimately persuaded by what the fraudsters had told 
him, Im satisfied that he ought reasonably have carried out more checks before making 
the payments. So, having taken everything into account, Im satisfied Mr Z shouldve 
done more to ensure that what he was being told was genuine before he agreed to 
transfer money out of his account in order to meet the required level of care under the 
CRM Code. Had he done so, I dont think he wouldve proceeded to make the payments. 
And so I cant fairly say that met Mr Z met his requirements under the Code, and I think 
this made a difference here.
In light of my findings above, I would normally recommend that the offer already put 
forward by HSBC, 50% of Mr Zs losses in relation to payments 2,3 and 4 to be fair. 
However, during the course of my investigation it has become clear that the bank where 
the second transfer was paid to was able to recover Company Gs funds. Its not clear at this point whether HSBC contacted this bank in order to inform them of the scam once it 
had been notified of it by Mr Z and its unclear if these funds have been returned to 
HSBC or not. As part of its response to this provisional decision, I would ask that HSBC 
confirm:
if it contacted the receiving bank upon notification of the scam
if the recovered funds have been returned to HSBC by the receiving bank, and;
if it will now speak with the receiving bank to arrange the return of the funds if 
they have not been returned already
For the above reasons, I am currently minded to reach the conclusion that payments 1 
and 2 be refunded in full and HSBCs offer of a refund amounting to 50% of payments 3 
and 4 to be fair.
For the reasons given, Im currently minded to recommend the following:
Payment 1 (£9,900) to be refunded to Company G in full plus 8% simple 
interest calculated from the date the payment left Company Gs account to 
the date of refund.
Payment 2 (£27,900) to be refunded to Company G in full plus 8% simple 
interest calculated from the date the payment left Company Gs account to the 
date of refund.
I am satisfied that HSBC has already made a fair offer in relation to 
payments 3 and 4 and this has already been returned to company G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Both HSBC and Mr Z, on behalf of Company G, responded to my provisional decision with 
further points. For ease, I have summarised their submissions below.
HSBC agreed with my findings in relation to payments 1, 3 and 4.
In regard to payment 2, it said it had contacted the third-party bank when Mr Z first 
reported the scam and the third-party bank had confirmed only £5.00 remained in the 
receiving account. This was later credited back to Company Gs account. 
HSBC had received no further evidence that the third-party bank had been able to 
recover this payment and without this evidence it felt its offer of 50% of this payment 
was reasonable. 
Mr Z highlighted that it was his suggestion to call the police following the first 
payment - and his wife agreed.
He said that an opportunity to identify the fraud had been missed by the HSBC call-
handler he had spoken with after making the first payment.
He stressed that throughout the scam, he thought his funds were always under his 
control. He pointed out that he genuinely thought the accounts he was transferring to 
were in his name and that only his bank would be able to open these accounts. At no 
point did Mr Z realise that a payment could be made where the payee name didnt 
match the name of the account holder. Mr Z pointed out that this flaw was made known to the banking industry in 2019 with 
recommendations that Confirmation of Payee procedures be put into place. But 
HSBC had failed to warn its customers that, at the time, account names were 
irrelevant in the transfer of funds. Mr Z said that HSBCs failure to provide this 
warning had ultimately led to the success of this fraud.
Mr Z pointed out that he was unsure as to who HSBC felt he could contact to 
independently verify what he was being told by the fraudsters. 
He said that the fact the fraudsters asked him to go into a HSBC branch further 
persuaded him that it was HSBC he was dealing with. He didnt think fraudsters 
would want him to speak with genuine members of staff in case the fraud was 
uncovered. Mr Z said he considered the branch to be a safe environment.
Ive reviewed all of the additional points put forward by both Mr Z/Company G and HSBC. 
And Ill address each point in turn.
HSBCs additional points
Since issuing my provisional decision, our investigator has been in touch with both HSBC 
and the third-party receiving bank who were in receipt of payment 2. They have been able to 
provide HSBC with the evidence it required to show the funds had been saved. I am pleased 
to say that HSBC has now contacted the third-party bank to arrange the return of the 
remainder of the funds to Company G and so my understanding is that this will be returned 
shortly, if it hasnt been already. 
HSBC has also been able to provide evidence to show that it contacted the third-party bank 
within a reasonable time-frame when Mr Z reported the scam. It has also been able to show 
that it was initially informed only a small amount of Company Gs funds remained in the 
account  which were later returned to Company G. HSBC were not updated later on down 
the line when the third-party bank had been able to save the rest. 
Mr Z/Company Gs additional points
I acknowledge what Mr Z has said it being him who initially suggested that the police should 
be called following the first transaction, and his wife agreed. However, I think this only 
supports the conclusions that he had significant concerns following this payment and 
shouldve sought to speak to the third-party; such as HSBC, Action Fraud or the police as he 
had suggested. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cannot agree that the call-handler Mr Z spoke to following 
the first payment missed an opportunity to identify Company G was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. The call was terminated and the conversation wasnt concluded. We dont have a 
recording of this call and so I cant say with any certainty as to what was discussed. 
However, Mr Z has confirmed that he brought up the two employee numbers that he had 
been provided with and he was told they were not HSBC employee numbers, as they were 
too short. However, based on what Ive seen, it doesnt appear that the conversation 
extended beyond this - to the point that it was decided during the call that Mr Z was falling 
victim to a scam. Had this been discussed, even briefly, its reasonable to presume that Mr Z 
wouldnt have continued to make the later payments. And so Im not satisfied that this 
conversation was so in-depth that HSBCs call-handler missed an opportunity to prevent the 
scam, before the call was ultimately terminated by Mr Z.
Ive carefully considered what Mr Z has said about thinking that he was transferring funds to 
accounts held in his own name. Ive also taken on board what hes said about him thinking it 
unlikely that fraudsters would ask him to go into branch to make transfers. I dont doubt this is what he thought at the time. However, I am still of the opinion that his own suspicions; 
which he has now confirmed prompted him to think about calling the police and did prompt 
him to call HSBC, paired with the suspicions of his wife, the conversation he had with 
genuine HSBC, shouldve caused serious doubt in his mind as to what he was being told by 
payment 2. And I think this shouldve prompted additional verification on his behalf. Im not 
persuaded that Mr Z wouldnt have been aware as to how he could verify what he was being 
told  he has already told us that he has thought about calling the police/Action Fraud to 
discuss the initial payment. These options were available to him. 
I also acknowledge what Mr Z has said about not realising payee names didnt represent 
account ownership at the time and had HSBC warned him of this, he wouldnt have 
proceeded. I also acknowledge HSBC wouldve been aware that a Confirmation of Payee 
system was due to come into place but wasnt at the time. But there was no obligation for 
HSBC to inform its customers that it wasnt in place already or what this meant. And I dont 
think it would be fair for me to hold HSBC to a standard that wasnt in place at the time. It is 
the Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA), the regulator of financial services in the UK, who 
are responsible for regulating the conduct of businesses and setting rules for businesses to 
follow, not the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Finally, I want to stress that Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr 
Z/Company G. I have significant sympathy for the situation he has found himself in. But 
having thought very carefully about what hes told us happened at the time and HSBCs 
actions, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold HSBC solely liable 
for his losses. 
Summary
Having taken into account the further submissions provided to me by both Mr Z and HSBC, I 
am not minded to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision for the 
above reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against HSBC Bank UK Plc.
HSBC should now:
Refund payment 1 (£9,900) in full plus 8%* simple interest calculated from the date 
the payment left Company Gs account to the date of refund.
Continue to liaise with the third-party bank to ensure Payment 2 (£27,900) is 
returned to Company Gs account in full taking into account any monies already 
recovered/paid. 
Pay 8%* simple interest on the above amount from the date the payment left the 
account to the date the total amount is returned. 
I am satisfied that HSBC has already made a fair offer in relation to payments 3 
and 4 and this has already been returned to company G.
* if HSBC Bank UK Plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Company G with 
the appropriate tax deduction certificate)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman