DRN-2976949
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Spectrum Payment Services Limited trading as cardonemoney 
(Spectrum) managed his bank account. He complains it didnt process a direct debit 
indemnity request, and that it closed his account. 
What happened
Mr C had a bank account with Spectrum. 
In June 2021, he contacted Spectrum to say an unauthorised direct debit had been 
taken from his account in April 2021 and that he wanted Spectrum to recredit his 
account. He believes hes entitled to an immediate refund under the direct debit 
guarantee. 
Mr C said hed contacted the police about it. 
Spectrum asked Mr C to provide further evidence to support his claim that the direct 
debit was taken without his authority. In the meantime, it stopped the direct debit so 
that future payments couldnt be taken by the originator.
Spectrum contacted Mr C by phone and email to ask for the further evidence but was 
unable to reach him. 
In its final response letter, Spectrum said it was satisfied it had followed the correct 
process in asking for more information, and it explained it would be happy to raise a 
Direct debit indemnity claim on receipt of evidence.
In May 2021, Spectrum wrote to Mr C to say it was giving him 60 days notice that his 
account was going to be closed.
Mr C doesnt understand why his account has been closed. 
Mr C says Spectrums handling of his complaint has caused him great distress and 
affected his mental wellbeing. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She said it was reasonable for Spectrum 
to ask for further evidence to support Mr Cs claim that the direct debit was taken 
without his permission. 
And, as Spectrum had given Mr C 60 days notice that his account was going to be 
closed - which was in accordance with its terms and conditions - she was satisfied it 
had acted reasonably. 
Mr C disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered relevant industry rules, codes of practice and legislation. Having done 
so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Direct debit indemnity claim
The direct debit guarantee protects consumers if there is an error in the payment of a 
direct debit. Its offered by all banks and building societies that accept instructions to 
pay direct debits.
It enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from their bank in certain 
 but by no means all  circumstances. Entitlement to a refund isnt absolute  it 
requires that an error is made in the payment of the direct debit. 
I note the direct debit payment debited Mr Cs account in April 2021 but he didnt 
inform Spectrum until June 2021. In the intervening period Mr C had received text 
notifications that the payment had gone unpaid and hed also asked for his bank 
account statements. So, Im satisfied he was aware prior to June that the payment 
had been taken.
Given Mr Cs concerns that the payment was unauthorised, that the police had been 
informed and thered been a couple of months between it debiting his account and Mr 
C informing Spectrum, I think it was reasonable for Spectrum to ask for further 
evidence so it could investigate whether the payment was take in error. 
Spectrum hasnt refused to make a direct debit indemnity claim, it has simply asked 
for more information - which its entitled to do under the direct debit guarantee. So, I 
dont think its acted unfairly by requesting further evidence from Mr C to support his 
claim. 
Closing the account
The starting point is the accounts terms and conditions, which say:
If your CardOneMoney Account is closed, both the billing and card accounts 
will be closed together. []  Normally, we will give you 60 days notice before 
closing your CardOneMoney account.
Ive looked at the letter Spectrum sent to Mr C explaining that his account was going 
to be closed. It explains that hes being given 60 days notice so that Mr C has time to 
manage his money. 
This is what Id expect a bank to do when closing an account. I appreciate Mr C is 
unhappy that Spectrum has closed his account, but its entitled to do so under the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
So, as Spectrum has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions, Im satisfied 
its treated Mr C fairly in the circumstances.  
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr C, but I hope, having read my reasons for 
doing so, he understands why Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021 Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman