DRN-1555243
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit 
card application.
What happened
In 2014 Mr H took out a credit card with Capital One. The limit on the card was £200.00 and 
he held this for around four years before applying for a second card. This card was approved 
and Mr H was given a second limit of £1,000.
Mr H complains that he should never have been approved for the second card and it has put 
him in financial difficulty. Mr H says he had adverse credit information, and he couldn't afford 
the second card. So he raised a complaint with Capital One.
Capital One looked into the complaint but didn't uphold it. It said that Mr H had maintained 
his payments on the first credit card and no serious adverse data showed on Mr H's credit 
report when it was checked the second time. As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought a 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. He was 
satisfied with the checks Capital One completed and the relatively low credit limits given. He 
also found that Mr H's account conduct across his other credit facilities had generally been 
good.
As Mr H didn't agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When lenders look at any application to borrow money they need to make sure there are 
proportionate checks in place. The checks should ensure that any credit thats approved is 
affordable and sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender must 
complete and its up to each business to decide how it wants to approach assessing 
applications. But Id expect a lender to look at a borrowers credit file, the information 
provided in their application and what they know about the applicant.
In this case, when Mr H applied for his first credit card, he told Capital One he had an 
income of £25,783 and a secondary income of £30,000. Capital One has provided evidence 
to show it carried out a credit search and found no serious adverse information. Capital One 
did find that Mr H had other credit and had one default - but thought he could afford the 
credit card limit of £200 as well. Having given all the information available consideration, 
I'm satisfied that Mr H could afford the limit given to him.In his complaint Mr H says that the information on his credit file should have shown that a 
second credit card wasnt affordable. Mr H took out the second card around four years after 
the first. Although Mr H did have some lending elsewhere at the time, Capital One were 
happy that Mr H had been maintaining at least his minimum payments on the first card and 
often more. The information Ive seen also doesn't show that Mr H had lots of adverse credit 
at this point either - the previous default had been settled for around three years. Mr H did 
have some late payments and Im satisfied Capital One took that into account when looking 
at his application.
Having looked back through the history of how Mr H managed the first credit card, the 
account management was generally good. I can see Mr H went over his limit, but this on its 
own doesn't indicate that someone is in financial difficulty, as it could be down to poor 
account management. I've also not been provided with any information to show Mr H made 
Capital One aware of any financial difficulty during this period.
Having considered the information available to me carefully, Im satisfied the decision to 
approve Mr Hs second credit card and limit of £1,000 was reasonable.
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr H - but I would encourage him to make contact with Capital One to 
discuss his financial situation and come to an arrangement that's manageable for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman