DRN-2903716
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined their claim in relation to a 
cancelled holiday. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a travel insurance policy taken with their bank account and underwritten 
by AWP.
In around May 2019, they booked a trip with their family and were due to depart in April 
2020. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel. As a result, the trip was cancelled including all associated 
bookings. Mr and Mrs S were able to recover most of their costs for the trip except domestic 
and international flights provided by one flight provider. He contacted the flight provider and 
was informed that a credit voucher would be valid until March 2022 (not just two years from 
the date of issue) and also could be transferred to an alternative person if they could no 
longer travel. 
Mr and Mrs S submitted a claim to AWP on the basis that they wanted a cash refund from 
the flight provider. AWP assessed the claim and declined it. It said Mr and Mrs S have been 
provided with a reasonable alternative. The costs therefore are recoverable and therefore 
AWP declined the claim. 
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint on the basis that the flight 
provider has offered a credit voucher and is still valid. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and have asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
So its been passed to me. In summary, Mr and Mrs S would like a cash refund for the flights 
they booked and would like AWP to settle the claim on that basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant rules and industry
guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The key issue I need to decide is whether AWP applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy as it should have and whether, in doing so, it treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and 
reasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
Under the cancellation section of the policy, it sets out that if beneficiaries are forced to 
cancel their trip before their outward travel because of FCO advice against all but essential 
travel:
The insurer will pay:
(i) In the case of cancellation the beneficiarys share of:
 the cost of deposits and trip expenses (including interconnecting flights) which
are not recoverable from any other source
Based on the above, the terms are clear in that the insurer will pay if the costs arent 
recoverable elsewhere. 
Has the claim been declined fairly?
I can see from information available from both Mr and Mrs S as well as AWP that an 
alternative credit voucher is available from the flight provider. I have also looked the flight 
providers website for the terms of the credit voucher. This says the voucher is available for 
24 months from the voucher being issued. The voucher can be issued in the name of the 
original bearer of the ticket. Alternatively, if the bearer doesnt wish to travel, there is an 
option to provide an alternative name who can use the voucher. The offer is also for the full 
value of the original cost of booking. 
Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable. The terms of the policy state that cover is 
provided as long as the costs arent recoverable. In the circumstances of this case, the flight 
provider has offered a credit voucher and, based on the available evidence, I dont think the 
terms of the voucher are so restrictive that it would be unfair or unreasonable for Mr and Mrs 
S to accept it. The voucher is transferrable, Is valid for a considerable period of time and can 
be used on a range of flights. I think therefore the terms are fair. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S would prefer to have a cash refund and I can understand why that 
might be. But that doesnt necessarily mean that AWP ought to settle the claim as Mr and 
Mrs S could also potentially benefit twice and that wouldnt be fair. AWP has said that if the 
cost isnt recoverable it would review the claim should the need arise. While there is a 
voucher currently available on reasonable terms, Im not persuaded that AWP should pay 
the claim and so I dont think it has unfairly declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S say the wording of the policy terms is onerous. Im afraid I dont agree. Its a 
common term included in most travel insurance policies and as Ive stated above, weve 
taken account of the relevant law and industry regulations. 
Conclusion
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied AWP has declined the claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. Im also satisfied that it hasnt treated Mr and Mrs S 
unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require AWP to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against AWP P&C 
SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman