DRN-4037261
The complaint
Dr D complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have made a number of 
mistakes in relation to the credit card account she held with them.
What happened
When Dr D complained to us, in November 2022, she told us her concerns were Nat West 
had shown double standards, gross, financial malpractice and discrimination and 
harassment and exposure to financial fraud in relation to her credit card account. 
She confirmed she had already complained to the bank and gave us the specific internal 
case complaint reference allocated by the bank. NatWest sent their Final Response (FRL) 
to that complaint on 6 December 2022. They summarised Dr Ds complaint as having two 
points.
Being unhappy her credit card account had been defaulted and terminated
Being unhappy she hadnt received monthly statements for the past twelve months.
They didnt uphold the complaint and explained why other aspects of her concerns couldnt 
be considered as theyd been dealt with under an earlier complaint where the final response 
had been sent over six months before this complaint was brought to our service.
Our investigator looked at what NatWest had done and was persuaded the default notice 
had been sent correctly and the subsequent default registration and termination of the 
agreement was done fairly. He could see the paper statements were sent to the same 
address as the arrears and default correspondence. So, he said he had no reason to think 
NatWest held incorrect information or that the statements were sent to an incorrect or old 
address. So, for these reasons he didnt uphold the complaint. He also reiterated to Dr D if 
there were any other aspects to this complaint that hadnt yet been addressed by NatWest 
those would need to directed to the bank for consideration before this service could get 
involved. 
Dr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter. She set out three 
points to her complaint that she thought NatWest and our investigator hadnt addressed 
namely;
The failure to submit statements (credit account paper statements via post) for past 
12 months;
The failure to acknowledge NatWests failure to provide its customer with services 
and financial products within a timely manner (a card into a current account 
functional and as per customer requirement;
The double standard exhibited by a financial organization in its expectation of how 
customer should act towards their financial obligations even when the bank itself fails 
to provide any appropriate and or expected minimum level of service and products.
Dr D asked for this to be quoted exactly when her complaint was forwarded to the 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons below for that.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly 
whats happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities.
Dr D has made a number of submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read 
and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that she will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are often expressed 
in my own words, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point 
raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Like the investigator I 
think there are two main strands to this complaint - the default and termination of the account 
and the delivery of statements. But its clear to me Dr D feels differently, so, I think, its 
important for me to frame, at the start, why Ive looked at what I have here. 
What I can look at in this complaint 
Its clear that Dr D has strong feelings about this complaint and thinks not everything shes 
concerned about has been dealt here by the bank or this service. So, I want to be clear at 
the outset what I can look at in this complaint and why.
When Dr D originally complained to the bank - in an email of 7 October 2022 - she asked to 
reactivate a complaint that had already been the subject of a final decision by this service 
earlier in 2022. It was about another account with NatWest. In that email she also asked for 
a new complaint - about her credit card under a specifically quoted internal complaint 
reference - to be looked at. Two points arise from this.
Firstly, we wouldnt normally revisit a closed complaint where a final decision had been 
made. An ombudsmans final decision is the last stage in our process and final. So, it 
wouldnt be right for me look at that previous complaint again here. 
Secondly, in respect of the current complaint detailed in the 7 October 2022 email - Dr D is 
entitled to raise issues as she sees it. But they have to be sufficiently clear for NatWest to 
investigate and respond. 
After receiving Dr Ds email complaint NatWest responded on 11 November 2022 and 
summarised what they thought were the two substantive complaint points - and went onto 
address in the FRL - namely termination of the account and the non-receipt of statements. 
They also asked Dr D to provide a clear explanation of other comments shed made in the 
later part of her email so they could investigate this completely. I can understand why 
NatWest did this - it needs to have proper notice to look into and respond to a complaint fully 
before this service does. But I cant see that any further particulars were given.
Before coming to a view on this case our investigator asked Dr D, twice, for clarification of all 
her complaint points. Her responses came back to central issue of whether the default and 
termination of her account was warranted against the backdrop of her previous complaints 
and the failure to send her statements. So, Im satisfied those are the issues I need to look at 
here
The default and termination of the account of the account In his view, our investigator has accurately set out what we would expect a lender to do 
when there have been missed payments on an account and the relevant legislation covering 
such agreements. So, I shant repeat that here. Theres no dispute between the parties that 
under the terms of the credit agreement Dr D signed on 29 May 2014 theres an obligation 
on her to make the minimum monthly payment. Nor is it disputed that she missed several 
payments in June July and August 2022.
As well as the obligations on NatWest, Dr D has a responsibility to manage this account 
within its terms. Ive seen a copy of the signed application for this credit card in 2014 
agreeing to the terms and conditions. So, Im satisfied she was aware of this and those 
terms. The terms include the obligation on Dr D to make the minimum monthly payment 
each month. Even if I accept, she didnt receive statements - which Ill deal with below - Dr D 
would have been aware of the not insubstantial balance on the account, and that there were 
many months where no payment at all is made.  But I cant see from the event notes that 
she contacted NatWest during this period to express any concerns or question the lack of 
payments or delivery of statements. 
The contact event notes, records and template letters NatWest have sent satisfy me it has 
done everything it should here. And that they have defaulted the account in line with the 
terms of the agreement. And I think theyve also reported an accurate reflection of the 
activity on the account to credit reference agencies. NatWest have an obligation to report 
accurately to such agencies. As I dont think theyve made any mistakes here I wont ask 
them to alter what theyve already reported. 
The provision of statements 
The bank has sent us copy statements going back to January 2021. I can see from a letter 
dated 10 January 2022, relating to a separate matter, that until November 2021 Dr D was 
registered for electronic statements. So, shed be sent an email to advise when the monthly 
statement was available to a customer to log into online banking to view. NatWest then had 
a request from Dr D to move to paper statements on 30 November 2021. The bank said this 
was actioned but the following month it was suspended, with a marker, as the December 
statement was returned to them due to an incorrect address. That appeared to have been 
corrected when Dr D updated her address with the bank on 3 January 2022.
After this, it seems to me, the statements were sent, by post, in line with Dr Ds instructions 
to the address shed given them - which is the same one we have been asked to use. So, 
although I acknowledge Dr D said she didnt get statements for 12 months, Im satisfied Nat 
West sent them. They told us some mail was returned as undelivered on 29 December 2022 
but, it appears to me, NatWest undertook proportionate checks to satisfy themselves the 
address was correct.  I dont know why it is that Dr D has not been receiving her mail, but I 
cannot safely conclude that this is as a result of something that NatWest has done wrong. 
So, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold them responsible for this.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think NatWest have done anything 
wrong here and Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman