DRN-2647915
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc suspended their current account without 
warning and misinformed them about a standing order payment that was due.
What happened
Santander suspended Mr H and Mrs Ps current account after a third-party claimed they 
hadnt authorised several payments to the account. The following morning, Mrs P tried to 
access the account on-line and couldnt get access. She called Santander and they told her 
why the account had been suspended and that it would so while they investigated. They said 
that Mrs P should go to her local branch and provide specific documents to support the 
payments were due to them and an investigator would consider the claim being made. 
Santander asked Mrs P to take with her photographic ID.
Mrs P went into the local branch the same day and provided the documents required. She 
then called Santander the following day to see if the account had been unblocked. Mrs P 
was told by Santander she needed to go into the local branch again to take her photographic 
ID. When this call was escalated, Mrs P was told this was an error and she didnt need to go 
into the branch with her ID again unless she wanted to withdraw cash. Santander confirmed 
the documents she had provided had been passed to an investigator and they were being 
considered. They said they couldnt give an indication of how long the investigation would 
take. Mrs P complained to Santander that they werent happy they hadnt warned them the 
account would be suspended.
Santander completed their investigation the following day and allowed full access to the 
account at 9:00 am that day. They provided a response to Mrs Ps complaint and explained 
why they had suspended the account and didnt think they had done anything wrong in this 
regard. However, Santander did acknowledge they incorrectly told her she needed to go 
back into the branch again to provide her ID. In recognition of the unnecessary distress this 
caused, Santander paid £30.00 into Mr H and Mrs Ps account.
Mrs P spoke with Santander and told them she didnt accept the payment. And that the 
response hadnt addressed the confusion surrounding an unpaid standing order.
Santander spoke with Mrs P shortly after and explained what had happened to the standing 
order. They re-iterated they didnt think they had done anything wrong in suspending the 
account but agreed there had been some confusion regarding the standing order. Santander 
paid a further sum of £30.00 into the joint account for this additional unnecessary distress.
Mr H and Mrs P were unhappy with Santanders final response and brought their complaint 
to our service and one of our investigators looked into things for them.
Our investigator thought Santander hadnt done anything wrong when they suspended the 
account as they have a duty to investigate whether the payments paid into the account 
should be returned to the third-party. Our investigator thought Santander shouldnt have told 
Mrs P she needed to go back into the branch to resubmit her ID. And in respect of the 
standing order due, our investigator thought the branch had caused further confusion when 
they told Mrs P she needed to pay in funds to ensure it was paid, when it had already been 
paid.
Our investigator thought that the two separate payments of £30.00 made by Santander to 
reflect the unnecessary distress they had caused Mr H and Mrs P was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr H and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator and thought that the remedy didnt address 
the loss of earnings for Mrs P when she attended the local branch, and they didnt agree it 
was fair and reasonable for Santander to suspend the account without warning. Mr H and 
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman now decides their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive a great deal of empathy that Mr H and Mrs P were inconvenienced when their main bank 
account was suspended, but for much the same reasons as our investigator I dont consider 
Santander did anything wrong when suspending the account. I do consider that during the 
suspension of the account, Santander couldve done things better, but I think the remedy 
offered was fair and reasonable. I will now explain why.
Ive seen that Santander were contacted by a third-party claiming that credits applied to Mr H 
and Mrs Ps account hadnt been authorised. Santander has a regulatory obligation to take 
such claims seriously and it would be unreasonable for them to give notice of a pending 
suspension as this would potentially impact an investigation, or on the recovery of disputed 
funds if necessary. In circumstances such as this, I wouldve expected Santander to quickly 
investigate the claims and this is what they did. Ive also considered the terms and 
conditions of the account and these explain that when transactions are disputed, Santander 
can restrict access to the account while an investigation is completed. So, I consider 
Santander didnt do anything wrong in suspending the account without notice. 
Ive noted Mrs Ps comment that she lost work in attending the branch to provide the 
required documents. However, as Im satisfied Santander didnt do anything wrong here, I 
wont be asking them to make a compensation payment in this regard.
Mrs P became aware of the suspension when she tried to access the account on-line the 
day after the third-party claim had been made. Santander explained why the account had 
been suspended and what action needed to be taken to complete an investigation. And on 
the same day Mrs P went to the local branch and provided the documentation Santander 
required. 
The following day, when Mrs P called to see if the investigation had been completed, she 
was told she needed to return to the branch to provide personal identification documents. 
She had provided these the previous day and queried this with the agent who took the call. 
Ive listened to this call and the subsequent escalated call, and its clear Mrs P was given the 
wrong information in the first call. In the escalated call Santander said they did hold all the 
required identification documents and that the supporting documents had been sent to their 
investigation team. Ive heard how frustrated Mrs P was about the first agent telling her to go 
back into the branch, and Im satisfied Santander couldve dealt with the first call better than 
they did. I heard that Santander quickly provided Mrs P with the correct information in the 
escalated call. So, I consider the £30.00 Santander has already paid Mr H and Mrs P for the 
way they handled the first call is fair and reasonable.Ive seen there was some further confusion relating to a standing order due before the 
account was suspended. Mrs P had received a text message saying she needed to put 
funds into the account so that a standing order could be paid. When she went into the local 
branch with the documentation Santander required, she paid in the amount required to 
ensure the standing order was paid. However, the account records Ive seen show it had 
already been paid. It seems to me that the text Santander sent Mr and Mrs P two days 
earlier caused some confusion here. Im satisfied it caused Mr H and Mrs P further 
inconvenience as they had to arrange for additional funds to be paid into the account at short 
notice, even though the standing order had already been paid. However, I consider the 
£30.00 Santander has already paid to Mr H and Mrs P for the additional inconvenience this 
caused them is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman