DRN-3785046
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) failure to 
provide a boiler service under their home emergency insurance, missing an appointment and 
about parts of their boiler possibly being unavailable should they need to be replaced. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, in summary, Mrs S and Mr S held a home emergency policy with British 
Gas and complained about a number of issues they experienced. British Gas responded and 
accepted theyd made errors and offered compensation of £215  which they sent by cheque 
in 2020. Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and Mr S and recommended British 
Gas pay compensation of £475. Mrs S and Mr S and British Gas agreed so the complaint 
was resolved on this basis. 
Mrs S and Mr S then contacted our service as theyd only received £260 of the agreed 
compensation. British Gas explained theyd already sent a cheque for £215 which is why the 
remaining £260 had been transferred to Mrs S and Mr S. British Gas accepted though that 
the cheque hadnt been cashed and they would look to reissue this. Our investigator asked 
British Gas to transfer the additional £215 to Mrs S and Mr Ss account rather than reissue a 
cheque. British Gas didnt respond so our investigator considered the further delay and 
recommended British Gas transfer the remaining £215 to Mrs S and Mr Ss account and also 
pay an additional £50 compensation  bringing the total additional payment to £265. Mrs S 
and Mr S agreed but British Gas didnt respond so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
British Gas then responded and said they accepted the view and had sent a cheque. British 
Gas explained, as the original payment for £215 was by cheque, they had to reissue this and 
the additional £50 would be transferred to Mrs S and Mr Ss account. Our investigator 
explained Mrs S and Mr S hadnt received the reissued cheque and thought the cheque 
didnt need to be reissued and British Gas should cancel this and transfer the additional 
£265. British Gas said they would try to cancel the cheque and transfer £265.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality. So, given theres no dispute over our investigators recommended compensation, 
Ill focus on what steps British Gas should take. 
Its not clear why British Gas needed to reissue the cheque for £215 and, given the cheque 
was originally issued in 2020 and not cashed, I think British Gas couldve cancelled this and 
transferred the full amount of the recommended and agreed compensation when they 
transferred the amount of £260. That said, Mrs S and Mr S say theyve now received the 
reissued cheque for £215 but not the additional £50. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that its reasonable for British Gas to pay an additional £265 in 
compensation to Mrs S and Mr S. Mrs S and Mr S confirm theyve received the reissued 
cheque for £215. So, provided this hasnt been cancelled by British Gas, and Mrs S and     
Mr S are able to cash this, then British Gas should transfer the remaining £50 to Mrs S and 
Mr Ss account, if they havent done so already. If the cheque has been cancelled and Mrs S 
and Mr S arent able to cash it, then British Gas should transfer £265 to Mrs S and Mr Ss 
account, if they havent done so already.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman