The complaint  
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit  
card in 2002. Miss D says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading at the time as Egg,  
mis-sold her the PPI.  
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and  
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds case.  
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis -sold. Ill explain why below.  
When selling the PPI, Egg had to make it clear to Miss D that she had a choice about it. But  
Miss D says she doesnt remember selecting the PPI and didnt know it was added.  
Eggs record of Miss Ds application for the credit card shows it was done online. And  Egg 
has sent us screenshots of what it says the online application form wouldve looked like at  
the time. These show a section on PPI, with yes and no options to be selected to show  
whether the customer wants to take it out. And Eggs record of Miss D s application also  
shows she selected the yes option.  
Based on this, I think Egg did make it clear to Miss D that she had a choice about the PPI.  
And that Miss D chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.  
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Miss D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But  
it did have to make sure Miss D got the information she needed to decide if the PPI was right  
for her.  
Its possible the information Egg gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. B ut, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like  
Miss D was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to sick pay . And it  
wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her family or any savings she had to make her  
repayments if she wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for her if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think bet ter information about the  
PPI would have put Miss D off taking it out.  
DRN-1015189My final decision  
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept  
or reject my decision before 17 October 2019.  
Alan Millward  
Ombudsman  