DRN-3849576
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about how Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in 
Liechtenstein AG (Helvetia) dealt with a claim under a home emergency policy.
Mrs L is represented by Mr W on this complaint but, for ease, I will only refer to Mrs L.
What happened
Mrs L contacted Helvetia when she found an issue with her radiators. Helvetia said it would 
send an engineer. However, an engineer didnt visit. Helvetia told Mrs L it hadnt arranged 
the engineer. Helvetia then sent an engineer The engineer attempted a repair, but this left 
Mrs L without any heating or hot water. Helvetia then sent other engineers to try and resolve 
the issue. Mrs L arranged her own engineer to fix the issue. She also complained to 
Helvetia.
When Helvetia responded to the complaint, it accepted there had been a range of issues 
with its service, including delays in sending engineers, issues with the conduct of the 
engineers and late-night calls to check if an engineer had visited. It offered £265 
compensation, £180 for the engineer Mrs L paid for and to refund the premium paid for the 
policy.
Mrs L complained to this service. Our investigator agreed there had been a range of issues 
with how the claim was dealt with. She said what Helvetia had offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As Mrs L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the detailed evidence from both parties about what happened. From what Ive 
seen, there isnt any dispute that the service provided by Helvetia was poor and that it made 
a number of errors in how it dealt with the claim. Im also aware of Mrs Ls circumstances, 
including her health issues and the impact on her of being left with no heating and hot water. 
Both parties are already aware of those circumstances, so I wont describe them in detail 
here. I can understand that Mrs L was very concerned by what happened and can see this 
had a greater impact on her than it might have had on others.
Helvetia offered £265 compensation, to refund the policy premium and to refund the cost of 
Mrs L arranging her own engineer. Ive thought about this carefully, including the poor 
service provided, Mrs Ls health issues and the impact on her of staying at her sons home. 
Im also aware of Mrs Ls concerns about what could have happened if she hadnt been able 
to stay with her son. Looking at the full circumstances of what happened, I think what 
Helvetia offered was reasonable. It is my understanding that Mrs L hasnt received any 
payment. As a result, I require Helvetia to pay the amounts it offered to Mrs L.
Putting things right
Helvetia should pay the amounts it offered in response to this complaint, which was £265 
compensation, £180 for Mrs Ls engineer and to refund the policy premium.
My final decision
Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG has made an offer 
to pay £265 compensation, £180 for Mrs Ls engineer and to refund the policy premium to 
settle the complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein 
AG should pay those amounts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman