DRN-2882345
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was given incorrect information by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited, trading as Porsche Financial Services, about the early termination of a hire 
purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to him. He also complains that 
Porsche Financial Services sent him a letter that was for another customer.
What happened
A nearly new car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Porsche 
Financial Services that he electronically signed in July 2018. He says that he phoned 
Porsche Financial Services in September 2020 about an early termination of the agreement 
and was told that he could return the car at no further cost. He phoned it five days later and 
was told that there was a shortfall of £7,410.69 which would have to be paid for him to return 
the car. He says that he paid that amount by credit card and then complained to Porsche 
Financial Services.
It didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it was unable to see any evidence of the first call 
and that it had listened to a recording of the other call and that he was advised of the correct 
information. It apologised for the delay in a clearance of obligation letter being sent to Mr M 
and it offered him a goodwill gesture of £50 for the inconvenience hed experienced. It also 
confirmed that Mr M was sent a letter incorrectly and the data breach was reported to its 
data protection officer, a full investigation would take place and it would take all required 
measures to ensure that it doesnt happen again. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He wasnt 
persuaded that Porsche Financial Services had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances and he didnt consider that it needed to take any further action in relation to 
the data breach.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes provided 
evidence to show that he phoned Porsche Financial Services five days before he was told 
about the shortfall and that the call lasted for 49 minutes and 28 seconds. He also says that 
a data action request should be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the hire purchase agreement says: You have a right to end this agreement. To do 
so, you should write to the person you make your payments to. They will then be 
entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this 
agreement, that is £30,112.19. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any 
overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have 
to pay any more;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M had paid £30,112.19 to Porsche Financial 
Services when he phoned it in September 2020  and it says that there was a 
shortfall of £7,410.69 that he would need to pay to be able to terminate the 
agreement early;
Mr M has provided evidence to show that he phoned Porsche Financial Services 
twice in early September 2020 and he says that he was told on the first call that he 
was able to return the car at no further cost;
Porsche Financial Services hasnt been able to find that call and theres no recording 
of it  but, if Mr M was told that he could return the car at no further cost, I consider it 
to be clear that that would have been incorrect information and that Porsche 
Financial Services would have made an error;
when Mr M phoned Porsche Financial Services five days later, he was told about the 
shortfall but he didnt mention the inconsistency with the information that he says that 
hed previously been given and he didnt refer to the earlier call that hed made;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M took any action in reliance on the incorrect 
information that he says that he was given and he says that he paid the shortfall by 
credit card;
I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties that hes experienced and the issues that 
he had with the early termination of his car, but Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that Porsche Financial Services has dealt with the early 
termination of his agreement incorrectly or that it shouldnt have charged him for the 
shortfall  and it has offered to pay him £50 because of the delay in him receiving a 
clearance of obligation letter;
I consider the £50 compensation that Porsche Financial Services has offered to Mr M 
to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances and, if it hasnt already paid that 
compensation to him, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £50;
Porsche Financial Services has accepted that theres been a data breach because a 
letter for another customer was sent to Mr M  it says that the data breach was 
reported to its data protection officer, a full investigation would take place and it 
would take all required measures to ensure that it doesnt happen again;
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M has suffered a loss as a result of that data 
breach and I consider that Porsche Financial Services has responded to it correctly  
so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any further 
action in relation to the data breach; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Porsche Financial Services to refund the shortfall to Mr M, to pay him any 
compensation (other than the £50 compensation referred to above) or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.My final decision
My decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Porsche 
Financial Services, should pay to Mr M the £50 compensation that its offered to him (if it 
hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman