DRN-2575259
The complaint
Mr M complains that Travelers Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his yacht 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had yacht insurance that was underwritten by Travelers. In July 2019 the mainsail of 
his yacht ripped during a race. Mr M made a claim on his insurance.  
On receipt of the claim Travelers asked for additional information. This included photos from 
the race and details about Mr M and his crews actions after the rip. It also asked to inspect 
the sail. Mr M explained that he had disposed of it after the race, due to its size. However he 
had retained a small section from the top of the sail. Travelers sent out an expert to inspect 
this part. 
Once it had completed its investigation, Travelers wrote to Mr M to say it was declining his 
claim for the mainsail. It said it had reviewed readings from a weather recorder on the stretch 
of water he raced on and while there had been some strong winds, it didnt think the 
conditions were anything more than ordinary. So it thought the damage was most likely due 
to wear and tear of the sail rather than a weather event, and this is excluded under the 
policy. It also said Mr M had continued in the race after the sail had ripped, which meant the 
damage worsened. And it was his responsibility under the policy to ensure any insured 
losses are minimised. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said there were extreme weather conditions on the day, 
but this was in the form of vertical gusts of wind that wouldnt have been registered by the 
weather recorder. Further he said that as the damage had happened when he was close to 
the end of the race, he continued because this was the closest place he would be able to 
safely take down the sails. He made a complaint.
Travelers didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that while there were some strong gusts of 
wind that day, these hadnt exceeded what a set of sails would be expected to withstand. 
And it said its expert had concluded that the mainsail was at the end of its life. So it thought 
the damage was most likely caused by wear and tear. It also didnt agree that Mr M had 
acted to minimise his losses, as it said the damage had happened much earlier in the race 
than he had claimed. It therefore maintained the two exclusions in the policy applied and the 
claim should be declined.
Mr M didnt think this was fair, he said he felt Travelers had been trying to decline his claim 
from the first day and had just been looking for a reason to do so. He brought his complaint 
to this service. Having done so, Mr M provided a large amount of additional evidence, 
including witness statements from experts who were present on the day about the weather 
conditions. And additional information about the sails from his sailmaker.
Our investigator considered all the information provided but didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. She thought Travelers had acted reasonably by declining his claim, as the 
evidence from the weather recorder hadnt shown there was adverse weather. She said 
even if she accepted the weather could be described as unordinary, then she still thought 
that the main cause of the damage was likely to have been wear and tear. And as this is 
excluded in the policy, she agreed Travelers acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the material the mainsail was made out of was designed to last 
for ten years and these were only four years old. Further he said the weather recorder wasnt 
accurate as it uses average readings each five minutes, so would exclude one off gusts. And 
it doesnt record vertical gusts which is what he said caused the damage. He asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to show there has been an insured 
event. Then it is for the insurer to either accept the claim or prove that an exclusion or 
condition applies.
In this case Travelers has said that Mr M didnt act to mitigate his losses after his sail ripped. 
And it says it thinks the main cause of the damage was wear and tear, which is excluded 
under the policy. 
Its important to note that it isnt for me to decide what happened. Just to decide if Travelers 
has acted fairly when applying these exclusions and making the decision to decline Mr Ms 
claim, based on the available evidence. 
 
I have started by considering the wear and tear exclusion. The policy states it does not cover 
loss or damage to:
1. the vessel caused by:
a) wear, tear or depreciation or the ordinary action of the wind and waves;
Travelers has said that it doesnt consider the conditions on the day of the race to have been 
any more than ordinary. So it says the damage was caused just by ordinary action of the 
waves and sea. It also says the sails were at the end of their life so it was because of the 
existing wear and tear that the sails ripped.
Weather
I started by considering the weather on the day. The policy provides cover for damage 
caused by heavy weather. It also excludes damage caused by ordinary action of the wind 
and waves. So in order for a claim to be accepted, its reasonable that Travelers would need 
to be satisfied that the conditions were out of the ordinary and above what the yacht would 
usually be subjected to.
 
Travelers has relied on data obtained by a recorder based in the stretch of water. While the 
recordings from the day show worse weather than usual for July, it doesnt show any 
evidence of adverse weather.  Travelers has shown that even the strongest gusts of wind 
recorded are significantly weaker than what sails would be expected to withstand. So I think 
it was reasonable for Travelers to conclude that there wasnt adverse weather on that day.
Mr M has contested the weather recordings. He has said that the type of wind gusts wouldnt 
be recorded on the machine, as they were vertical rather than horizontal. He has also provided accounts from other participants and experts who were in attendance on the day, 
and they have described more extreme conditions with exceptionally strong gusts of wind. 
When events are disputed, I have to look at the evidence available and decided what I think 
is most likely. In this case I am more persuaded by Travelers evidence. 
While Mr M has provided accounts from a number of people on the day  some with 
expertise in weather reporting - these are speculative accounts, and arent based on data. 
And some statements were taken around a year after the event itself. The evidence provided 
by Travelers is based on data that was recorded on the day. So there is less room for 
interpretation and it doesnt change over time. 
However, I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter. And while I think the data 
from the weather recorder is more persuasive, I accept that there may have been some 
stronger gusts of wind that werent reflected fully in that data. So I have also considered 
Travelers decision to apply the wear and tear exclusion. 
Wear and tear
Mr M disposed of the sail after the race, so Travelers hasnt been able to inspect it in full. I 
understand his reasons for doing so, but it has made it more difficult to determine the 
condition of the sail at the time of the damage. Mr M retained a small part of the top section 
of the sail. While this would give Travelers some indication of the condition, I dont think it is 
enough to rely on. The section that was retained was from the head of the sail  the 
narrowest part right at the top. And this would have naturally experienced less of an impact 
from the wind due to its size. So just because this part was in a good condition, I dont think 
this is enough to say the rest of the sail was too. 
I have considered accounts from experts provided by both sides, as well as the photos 
provided from the race. Travelers expert said that the mainsail was around four years old, 
which is the usual lifespan of sails used for racing.
Mr M has disputed this. He has said that previous sails made of a similar material have 
lasted for ten years. He has also provided a statement from his sailmaker that describes how 
carbon used in sails will usually become more robust as it gets older and is more brittle when 
it is new. 
I have considered both of these accounts and on balance I am more persuaded by 
Travelers conclusions. While Mr M has said he has had previous sails that lasted for a much 
longer period, Travelers comments have been based on an inspection by an expert of part 
of the sails that are being claimed for and relate to the specific expected life of those sails. 
So while I understand why Mr M may feel that the sails should have lasted longer, I dont 
think this is enough to disprove Travelers experts observations. 
Further Trvaelers has said that there was a previous repair to the same sail. And I can see 
this repair in the photos on the day of the race, before it began. And while I can see this was 
lower down the sail than where the sail ripped during the race, I think Travelers were fair to 
conclude that a previous repair may indicate the sail is reaching the end of its life.  
I have also considered the comments from Mr Ms sailmaker. The material he describes in 
the statement is a different material to what the sails are made of  and Mr M accepts this. 
So while I accept the two materials are similar, I am less persuaded by this account as it 
doesnt reference the specific material of the sail being claimed for. 
For these reasons I think Travelers has acted reasonably by declining Mr Ms claim based 
on the wear and tear exclusion. It has provided a report from an expert who examined the available part of the sail. And, while I have considered all the evidence Mr M has provided, 
Ive not seen anything to disprove the assertions of that expert. So Im satisfied that 
Travelers has treated Mr M fairly and I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
As I am satisfied that Travelers has acted fairly by declining Mr Ms claim due to this 
exclusion, I havent considered whether Mr M met the condition of ensuring he minimised his 
losses. As it is only required to prove one condition or exclusion in order to decline the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman