DRN-3382443
The complaint
Ms v complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
What happened
In or around January 2019, Ms v was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms v decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2019 Ms v made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. She said 
that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be 
true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Ms v to enter into the contract 
with P. She has made the following points:
the payback period on the investment is significantly longer than would normally be 
acceptable; and
the finance means that Ms v will never receive a return on her investment; and
the estimated payback period was never explained to Ms v; and
she was sold three products (solar panels, storage battery and roof insulation) rapidly 
after one another indicates that she has been swindled; and
lack of advice was provided in relation to the investment; and
the energy savings are not as high as promised at the point of sale.
Shawbrook did not issue a final response but responded to our file request and explained 
that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms v or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms v and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Ms v didnt respond to the investigators view.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms v paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms v could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms v and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Ms v and Shawbrook. These 
include credit agreements and solar quotes/contracts titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that they 
formed a central part of the sales process and are therefore relevant when considering if 
there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Ms v recollection of the sale.
The credit agreements set out the amounts being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amounts payable, the term of the loans and the contractual monthly repayments.
There are two separate credit agreements. One for the solar system and one for battery 
storage. Shawbrook spoke to P about the reasoning for this. P explained that there was a 
period of time where they were having difficulties sourcing batteries which meant it would be 
several months until they were able to provide the battery. P decided to split the agreements 
so that Ms v wasnt paying for something that she hadnt yet received. I think this was 
reasonable given the circumstances here.
The monthly loan repayments for the solar system are £97.90 and the battery storage 
£43.48  so the combined monthly repayments total £141.38.
The quotation documents use a monthly loan repayment of £140.22 to compare the cost to 
the benefits. Therefore, there is a small difference between the quoted and actual 
repayments. This was because Ms v decided to take advantage of a two-month repayment 
holiday on each of the loans which resulted in slightly higher interest costs over their term. 
Im satisfied that P provided a sufficiently accurate comparison between the cost and the 
benefits of the system.Benefits of the system
Ms v has alleged that she was told she would receive a return on her investment. Ive 
considered the quotes that were provided by P and whether this supports what Ms v has 
said.
The system analysis pages of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms v could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the solar system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Ms v could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £138.03.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms v could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity saving is £251.45 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Ms v the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £389.45. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together and on the impact of solar page.
Theres a section titled Finance repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loans that Ms v entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the total 
combined finance as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £140.22. For each of the 15 
years, it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure 
over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £140.22, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the FIT payments and electricity savings Ms v could expect 
to receive from the system, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. It 
clearly suggests that the overall income and savings wouldnt be sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that Ms v was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and electricity savings throughout the 
term of the loans.
Self-funding/Payback period
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income and 
savings from the system, and the effect on that of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. 
Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that there would be a difference between the expected 
income and monthly loan repayments throughout the 15-year loan term.
However, I do accept that Ms v was told by P that she would receive a return on her 
investment at some point. 
The what will you earn and save per year page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. 
The loan agreement for the solar system shows a total cost of £17,722. The loan agreement 
for battery storage shows a total cost of £7,926.40.  So, the combined total is £25,648.40. 
This table shows that between year 21 and 25 the overall benefits that Ms v could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreements. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms v that the system would pay for itself by 
years 21 to 25, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms v. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
2,153.29 kWh a year.
I have looked at Ms vs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,209.56 kWh. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms v couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms v entered into the contract.
Summary
I have carefully considered the points made by Ms v along with those made by Shawbrook 
on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the 
sales process and it wouldve been discussed with Ms v. So, Ive not been persuaded that 
the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been contradicted by the 
quote. To support this, Im satisfied that Ms v was sent the quote and contract documents, 
had time to consider them and to raise any issues prior to installation.
So, having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms v to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms v to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman