DRN-3213107
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the support he received from Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) in relation to a conditional sale 
agreement he has with it. 
What happened
Mr M acquired a new car under a conditional sale agreement with BPF in 2018. The car cost 
around £29,000 and Mr M was required to make monthly payments of around £495 over four 
years, with a final payment due of around £670. The total amount of credit was around 
£19,500. From reading BPFs contact notes around the time Mr M acquired the car it looks 
like he originally intended to take it out for business use but he was told this wasnt possible 
under the agreement he had. The contact notes indicate Mr M told BPF he had another car 
which hed use for his business instead.
Mr M had some issues paying the agreement in early 2019, and he entered into a payment 
plan with BPF and brought the account up-to-date. It looks like he spoke to BPF later on in 
2019 as he was having some difficulties again but was intending to bring the account up-to-
date upon receipt of a claim. Mr M spoke to BPF and asked whether any overpayments hed 
made could cancel out the arrears, and it looks like BPF agreed to do this for him. 
A payment was missed again in January 2020. And it looks like Mr M entered into another 
payment arrangement in March 2020. Mr M complained to BPF in May 2020 because he 
was receiving arrears letters and he thought he was in a three-month payment holiday. BPF 
sent a default notice to Mr M in May 2020 because he was around £900 in arrears  the last 
payment Mr M made was in March 2020. 
As BPF wasnt receiving payment it passed the agreement to debt collectors. Mr M was 
unhappy with this and wanted BPF to bring the account back. So he brought a complaint to 
our service. 
Mr M is unhappy BPF wont bring his account back from the debt collectors. He says through 
the course of his agreement hes overpaid about £3,000 so he thinks this should be used to 
offset against the arrears that accrued. Hes also unhappy BPF didnt give him a break from 
his payments as hes been negatively impacted by Covid-19. He says that BPF should have 
given support in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Covid-19 guidance for car 
finance firms. 
BPF responded to Mr Ms complaints and said it hadnt agreed to a payment holiday and that 
as the payment arrangement wasnt kept to, it hadnt acted unfairly by issuing arrears letters, 
a default notice, and by referring the agreement to its debt collectors.  
As things stand, it looks like the debt collector, via BPF, has given Mr M four options:
1. Payment of arrears in full. 
2. Allow up to six months to clear the arrears (while maintaining his contractual 
payments). 
3. Voluntary surrender of the car. 
4. Voluntary termination of the agreement. 
Our investigator looked in to the complaint but didnt make any recommendations to BPF. He 
said that when Mr M spoke to BPF in March 2020 FCA guidance specific to Covid-19 for car 
finance firms hadnt been released. But he also noted firms were still required to follow 
guidance for customers in financial difficulties that could be found in the FCAs handbook in 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section. He said that firms were required to treat 
customers in financial difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. As it looked like 
BPF was willing to enter into a payment arrangement in March 2020, he thought it had acted 
fairly. 
Our investigator also noted Mr M was unhappy that an overpayment he made in December 
2019 wasnt counted towards the payment due in January 2020. But he felt that BPF had 
made it sufficiently clear to Mr M that contractual payments would fall due, regardless of any 
overpayments made in previous months. 
Mr M didnt agree. Ultimately he thought that overpayments hed made should be used to 
offset any arrears. And as things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint that said:
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
Mr M is complaining about the support he received in relation to his regulated conditional 
sale agreement. Our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
I first want to say that Im sorry to hear Mr M has been negatively impacted by Covid-19. It 
cant have been easy, and I thank him for taking the time and effort to bring his complaint to 
our service. 
Support received
I think the main thing I need to decide is whether BPF gave enough support to Mr M when 
he asked for help. If I think things havent gone as they should have done then I need to 
decide what, if anything, BPF will need to do to put things right.
Mr M indicated in May 2020 he was unhappy BPF hadnt given him a three-month payment 
holiday when he spoke to it previously. The FCA set out that car finance firms should offer 
customers impacted by Covid-19 a three-month payment deferral unless (acting reasonably) 
it wasnt in the customers best interests. But when he spoke to BPF in March 2020, FCA 
guidance on Covid-19 for car finance firms hadnt yet been released. So I dont think BPF 
acted unfairly by not offering a deferral as per the FCA Covid-19 guidelines. However, there was still guidance for treating consumers with forbearance that businesses 
were expected to follow. This is set out in the CONC rulebook which can be found in the 
FCA handbook. Under CONC 7.3.4 it says A firm must treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.6 goes onto say 
Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow 
the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
From what I can see, it looks like BPF offered Mr M a payment arrangement in March 2020, 
and it did so on the basis of Mr Ms disposable income at the time. So I think this shows that 
BPF was looking for ways to help Mr M, and that it was treating him with forbearance. And, 
for the avoidance of doubt, I think BPF had also treated Mr M fairly when he had previous 
difficulties making payment towards the agreement. It had offered to set up payment 
arrangements and had also offered to offset overpayments against arrears. 
Ive also thought about whether BPF could have done more when Mr M spoke to it in 
May 2020. It looks like he was unhappy he was getting arrears letters and that he thought 
hed been given a three-month payment holiday. The FCA Covid-19 guidance for car finance 
firms came into effect on 27 April 2020  after Mr M initially spoke to BPF about the missed 
payment in January 2020. The guidance was for Exceptional and immediate support to 
customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus. The 
guidance set out that eligible customers should be able to request a payment deferral for a 
period of three months. But the guidance also said, Where a customer was in pre-existing 
financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC would continue to 
apply. 
Given BPF had provided Mr M forbearance measures previously, and given the arrears that 
were causing an issue stemmed from a missed payment in January 2020  before the 
pandemic  I think BPF had legitimate concerns that the financial difficulties Mr M 
experienced mightve been more longstanding. And that they werent solely as a result of 
Covid-19. As Ive said above, where theres evidence of pre-existing financial difficulty firms 
were required to follow existing rules and guidance under CONC. 
However, when looking a bit further into Mr Ms situation I think he has a valid point. While I 
accept that Mr M was required to make his contractual payments on a monthly basis 
regardless of any overpayments, and that BPF had told him this, BPF had in the past offered 
to offset arrears against overpayments hed made. Mr M made two payments in December 
2019. A £500 standing order on 13 December. And the usual direct debit of £493.39 on 30 
December. It looks like Mr M was normally paying by standing order, so I imagine it was an 
oversight of his not to cancel the 30 December payment as hed already made payment for 
the month. Or he may genuinely have thought the direct debit could be used to cover his 
January 2020 payment. 
I accept Mr M technically missed his January 2020 payment, but he went on to make £500 
standing order payments in February and March 2020, again, indicating this was how he 
usually paid. Ive also looked in to what Mr M has said about the overpayments hed made 
across the life of the agreement. And I can see the point hes trying to make. I think Mr Ms 
contractual payments were due to start in April 2018. So by March 2020 the agreement 
would have been live for 24 months. 24 contractual payments total £11,841.36 (24 X 
£493.39). So had the agreement taken its normal course Mr M would have owed £12,020.36 
(£23,861.72 - £11,841.36). But Mr M owed £9,000 at this point. So he was ahead of where 
hed have been had he not made the overpayments. Of course, BPF expected to receive its contractual payments monthly  regardless of 
previous overpayments. And that is what Mr M agreed to do. So I cant say BPF acted 
completely unfairly by treating January 2020s payment as missed. But in this case, had it 
not been for Mr Ms oversight by making two payments in December 2019, or his 
misunderstanding that he could carry over his 30 December payment to January 2020 I think 
BPF may have taken the decision to consider him to have been up-to-date in March 2020. 
And as Ive said above, it took this action for him previously. 
So Ive thought again about what happened in May 2020. On the one hand, Ive not seen 
enough evidence that BPF agreed a payment deferral for Mr M. And ultimately there was no 
payment made in January 2020, so arrears letters were sent out when Mr M didnt keep to 
the payment arrangement by paying more than the contractual payment. Therefore I dont 
think BPF has acted unfairly here. 
But on the other hand, it looks like Mr Ms agreement was £3,000 ahead in March 2020 as 
Ive pointed out above. And he explained hed been impacted by Covid-19  he was a taxi 
driver. So I think you could argue the FCA Covid-19 guidance was intended for customers 
like Mr M. Therefore, while I dont think it was wrong of it to send the arrears letters, I think 
BPF could and arguably should have fairly taken the decision to offer Mr M the payment 
deferral and backdated it to April 2020  when it looks like he started missing payments. I 
think this wouldve been in the spirit of the guidance. 
So Im minded to propose that BPF give Mr M the benefit of the payment deferral as per the 
FCA Covid-19 guidance. And as the FCA subsequently set out that customers could have up 
to six months of deferrals, Im thinking it should apply this to him from April 2020 to 
September 2020. And it should remove the adverse information from his credit file for this 
time as well. 
However, things have now moved on. And I dont think Mr M has been paying towards his 
agreement. Indeed  I think his financial difficulties lasted longer than six months. So his 
arrears would have grown quite substantially. Therefore, Im not minded to propose BPF 
drastically change the options that were recently put forward to him. Because the arrears are 
fairly owed to BPF. The options are:
1. Payment of arrears in full. 
2. Allow Mr M up to six months to clear the arrears while maintaining his contractual 
payments. 
3. Voluntary surrender of the car. 
4. Voluntary termination of the agreement. 
However, as I think Mr M should have been given a six-month deferral, under option 2 I think 
the arrears should be classed as the missed payments from October 2020 onwards. And 
given Mr Ms arrears would be less, BPF would of course be able to offer more generous 
terms than those above if it now wanted to do so. 
BPF responded to highlight Mr M hasnt made any payments since March 2020. And that if it 
followed the suggested directions it could end up delaying the default on Mr Ms credit file  
thereby putting him in a worse position. 
I arranged for the parties to be contacted to say that providing Mr M took up one of the 
options above, the arrears for the relevant months should be removed. I pointed out if he 
didnt keep to future payments, he runs the risk of defaulting again. But I also said that if 
Mr M wasnt willing to agree to one of the options above, it would indicate he would have still 
defaulted even had he been given a payment deferral so it would make sense to leave the 
default on his credit file as it is now. Mr M reiterated that he was in the black i.e., hed paid off more towards the agreement than 
was required under the contract. Hes unhappy he wasnt sent details of a missed payment 
in January 2020 and that he had an agreement for the December 2019 payment to be 
carried over. He requested compensation and thinks his agreement should have been frozen 
while the complaint was with our service. He also says hed be willing to pay the account off 
with an agreed settlement or agreed payments. But he requests any extra interest, fees or 
arrears that have been added since the complaint came about to be removed. 
BPF sent a further response that said Mr M could:
Complete an income and expenditure form and enter into a payment plan to clear the 
arrears and balance over a period of up to 12 months. And that if he maintains the 
arrangement the adverse data would be removed. Should the arrangement not be 
kept to, his credit file may be affected, or
Voluntary terminate the agreement with adverse data being removed from April 2020 
to September 2020. But given Mr M hasnt paid anything since March 2020 the 
default would be applied to his account as at September 2020. 
We put the offer to Mr M who said he was not interested in a plan and will pay the balance 
off in full. But he wanted the settlement figure to be reduced to what he thinks it was at the 
beginning of 2020. His statement showed he owed £9,000 but Mr M thinks the balance 
should have been around £7,400. And he reiterated he wanted compensation.  
We asked Mr M for evidence to show he had the funds available to settle the agreement in 
2020. Mr M said he would have got an interest free loan from a family member but said he 
could not provide further supporting evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whats happened since I issued my provisional decision. BPF has said it will 
allow Mr M 12 months to clear the arrears and remove adverse data from April 2020 
onwards if Mr M maintains this arrangement. Or it would allow Mr M to voluntary terminate 
the agreement and it will remove the adverse date from April to September 2020. This will 
involve moving the default to September 2020 as its not received any payments since 
March 2020. 
Mr M has said he wants to settle the agreement. But he wants the balance to be set as it 
was in 2020. 
Seeing as Mr M wants to keep the car, there seems to be two viable ways for that to happen. 
He can pay off the balance in full, as hes indicated he will, or he can come to an 
arrangement with BPF. BPF has said it will allow 12 months for Mr M to clear the arrears and 
balance. Given the original agreement was due to end around now I think allowing Mr M 12 
months to settle the agreement is fair, and of course gives him more leeway than the 6 
month period referred to in my provisional decision.
 
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about being in the black. But Ive already set out why 
BPF was entitled to expect monthly payments, regardless of previous overpayments. So I 
dont think I need to go over that again. And given Mr M wants to settle the balance, I dont 
think it has a significant impact here. Ive thought about Mr Ms request to have the settlement figure backdated to what it would 
have been in 2020. Hes referred to receiving a letter saying he owed around £7,400. But 
from reviewing the letter, the figure hes referring to came under opening arrears balance 
and so was not the actual settlement figure at the time. So Im not going to direct BPF to 
reduce the settlement figure to that amount. 
Ive also thought about whether or not BPF should backdate the settlement figure, meaning 
Mr M may benefit from a slightly higher interest rebate (should he settle the agreement). I 
think that would only be fair if thats what likely wouldve happened had things gone as I think 
they should have done. But Im mindful Mr M has said he was in financial difficulties in 2020, 
which is why he requested assistance in the first place. And given hes not shown us he had 
funds available to settle the agreement, I dont find I have the grounds to direct BPF to 
backdate the settlement figure. And for completeness sake, I think its only fair Mr M pays 
for his use of the car. Its important to note hes not being put in a worse position by being 
asked to pay more than he wouldve done had the agreement run its course. 
If Mr M is unable to come to an agreement, or if he decides to hand the car back, BPF has 
said it will move the default to September 2020. If Mr M had been given a deferral it would 
have ended around this time. And if hed been unable to pay his agreement by the time the 
usual arrears and default letters had been sent, a default likely would have been applied a 
couple of months later. So I dont find BPFs proposed date of September 2020 to be unfair.
 
Ive also thought about Mr Ms request for compensation and that hes unhappy he wasnt 
contacted about missing payments in January 2020. Having considered everything, Im 
mindful BPF has, on the whole, tried to work with Mr M and made certain allowances that fall 
outside of what was provided for under the terms of the agreement  for example by letting 
Mr M offset certain payments. Although I appreciate this has led to some confusion when it 
no longer wanted to offer that. 
On balance, Ive set out why I think it wouldve been fairer for BPF to have allowed a 
payment deferral. So the main impact Mr M wouldve been caused is in relation to his credit 
file. As Mr M was struggling to pay his agreement in 2020, I dont think the impact was as big 
as it could have been. And I have to bear in mind that it was Mr Ms choice not to pay 
anything towards the agreement for nearly two years, while continuing to have use and 
benefit from the car over this time. So Im not going to direct BPF to pay compensation. 
With regards to being contacted about January 2020s missed payment, from looking at 
BPFs notes it looks like it did start writing to him from February 2020 onwards about the 
arrears, which is what Id expect. 
All things considered, I think BPFs latest offer is fair, and is broadly in line with my 
provisional decision. So Im not going to direct it to do anything else. 
Putting things right
In addition to allowing Mr M the option to voluntary terminate the agreement or surrender the 
car, I direct BPF to:
Remove adverse information from Mr Ms credit file from April 2020 onwards if he 
settles the agreement or maintains an arrangement to clear the balance within 12 
months from the date of accepting this final decision.
For the avoidance of doubt if Mr M terminates the agreement or surrenders the car, BPF 
may decide to move the default to September 2020, which I would not consider 
unreasonable.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman