DRN-2945876
The complaint
Ms G complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms G originally took a loan for £5,000 in August 2014 from a lender I will call C. She agreed 
to repay that loan in 60 monthly instalments. TFS purchased the loan book from C in 
January 2016, but didnt take on the liabilities for any problems in the way those loans had 
been approved. Ms Gs loan was part of the loan book that TFS purchased, and so her 
repayments were made to TFS from the time of the transfer.
In January 2018 TFS approached Ms G. It told her that it was able to offer her the 
opportunity to reduce her monthly repayments by refinancing the loan at a lower interest 
rate. So it offered to lend her £2,500 to be repaid over a 23-month period. The money Ms G 
borrowed from TFS repaid her previous loan in full. And the new repayment term matched 
that of her original loan, so Ms G wasnt indebted for any longer as a result of TFSs offer. 
Ms G reduced her monthly repayment from around £197 per month to £139 per month.
Ms Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She could see that Ms G 
was facing some financial pressures when TFS offered to refinance her loan. But since that 
refinance didnt extend the term of the loan, and resulted in Ms G making lower repayments, 
she thought that TFS had treated Ms G fairly. So she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld, or that TFS needed to pay Ms G any compensation.
Ms G didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan that Ms G took in 2014 wasnt provided by TFS. And as part of its purchase of the 
loan book in 2016 TFS did not take on the liability for the lending decisions that had been 
made by the previous lender. So I cannot, in this decision, look at what happened in 2014 or 
reach any conclusions about whether the original loan should have been given to Ms G.
When TFS purchased the loan book it wasnt required to undertake any assessments about 
the affordability of those loans. Each loan, including the one given to Ms G, had been 
provided under a credit agreement. And that agreement allowed C to assign its rights under 
the agreement to another party without needing the borrowers consent. So TFS became 
legally entitled to collect the repayments due from Ms G. And that is what it did from 
January 2016 onwards.
In January 2018 TFS got in touch with Ms G. It seems to me that contact wasnt in response 
to any problems that Ms G had told the lender about with her finances. But the timing 
appears to have been relatively fortuitous. During her discussions with the lender Ms G 
explained that she had been made redundant. But she also said that she was in the process 
of setting up a new business that would provide her income in the future.
The offer that TFS made to Ms G was to refinance her existing loan by taking a new loan 
from TFS itself. I dont know why TFS made that offer  but I dont think the reason has 
much bearing on my decision. But there is likely to have been an attraction for TFS to move 
borrowers from their previous loan to a new TFS loan.
I think it is important to consider the terms that were offered to Ms G. By refinancing the loan 
TFS replicated the existing term remaining on Ms Gs original loan. So she wasnt indebted 
for any longer as a result. And TFS greatly reduced the rate of interest that applied to the 
loan. By doing so it reduced both Ms Gs monthly repayment, and the total amount she 
would need to pay to complete the loan. Ms Gs monthly repayments fell by approximately 
30% from £197 to £139.
It doesnt seem that TFS did much in the way of checks when it provided this new loan to 
Ms G. It had previously explained that it would only do further checks if Ms G wanted to 
increase the amount she was borrowing, or extend the term of the loan. But TFS was aware 
that Ms G had lost her job and was reliant at that time on state benefits. However Ms G had 
also explained that she expected that situation to be temporary and that she was in the 
process of setting up a new business.
I dont think, given that the only impact of TFSs actions was to reduce the amount Ms G 
needed to repay each month, the steps TFS took were unreasonable. It is clear that the 
regulations required TFS to treat Ms G with forbearance and with due consideration if she 
said she was facing financial difficulties and was unable to meet her repayments. But 
I havent seen anything to make me think that was the case. On the calls I have listened to 
Ms G presented a relatively positive outlook on her finances.
So I dont think it is reasonable to conclude that TFSs actions in giving this loan to Ms G 
amount to irresponsible lending. TFS simply reduced the amount that Ms G needed to repay 
each month. So, although I appreciate how disappointing this decision will be for Ms G, 
I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
TFS Loans Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman