DRN-1543115
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Social Money Limited (trading as BridgeCrowd) didnt contact 
them before their bridging loan expired. They expected the loan to expire in September 
2019. As a result, they didnt repay the loan when it was due in March 2019. BridgeCrowd 
applied default interest and charges and started legal action. Mr B and Mrs B ask that they 
are given time to sell their buy to let property at its market value to repay the debt.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B took out a bridging loan with BridgeCrowd in September 2017. The loan was 
secured on their buy to let property. They took out the loan to repay their mortgage and give 
them time to sell their buy to let property. The original loan had a six months term and was 
extended twice, each time for six months. The property remains unsold and Mr B and Mrs B 
havent repaid the loan. BridgeCrowd has started proceedings to take possession of the 
property.
Mr B and Mrs B say BridgeCrowd contacted them in March 2018 and September 2018, 
before the loan was due to be repaid, to discuss extending it. They say it didnt contact them 
before the loan term expired in March 2019. They say they didnt know the loan was due and 
this is why they didnt repay the loan in March 2019. Mr B and Mrs B say they thought it was 
due in September 2019. They were upset to receive a letter in early September 2019 saying 
the loan is in default and penalties were being applied, adding thousands of pounds to their 
debt.
BridgeCrowd says the loan agreement is clear that the loan expired in March 2019. It says 
theres no evidence it did anything to extend this or change the date the loan was due. It said 
the loan term didnt automatically extend just because it didnt contact Mr B and Mrs B 
before it expired. And it pointed out that Mr B and Mrs B still havent repaid the loan.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
no evidence to support Mr B and Mrs Bs claim that the loan term was extended to 
September 2019. While BridgeCrowd could have contacted Mr B and Mrs B before the loan 
expired in March 2019, this wouldnt have changed the outcome: the property hadnt been 
sold and they had no means of repaying the loan.
Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me. Mrs B says they 
didnt sign a loan agreement with a repayment date in March 2019: she pointed out that the 
loan agreement provided by BridgeCrowd to the court was unsigned. Mrs B also said she 
wanted to understand the huge amount of default interest, default fees and other fees 
applied by BridgeCrowd, which have significantly increased the amount they owe. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr B and Mrs B signed a loan agreement with BridgeCrowd in September 2017. The 
repayment date was six calendar months from the date on which the loan was drawn down, 
being 29 March 2018. The loan was secured on Mr B and Mrs Bs buy to let property. The 
proceeds were to be used to repay an existing mortgage and overdraft and to provide a 
cushion until the property was sold.
The parties entered into a supplemental agreement to extend the repayment date to 
September 2018. 
BridgeCrowd says Mr B and Mrs B entered into a second supplemental agreement to extend 
the repayment date to 29 March 2019. BridgeCrowd provided a copy of the agreement, 
which sets out the fees and interest and the amount due on or before 29 March 2019. 
I think the second supplemental loan agreement is clear about the date on which the loan is 
to be repaid  that is 29 March 2019. I havent seen anything to suggest that BridgeCrowd 
misled Mr B and Mrs B about this.
BridgeCrowd contacted Mr B and Mrs B in mid March 2018 and in September 2018, about 
the expiry of the loan. It didnt contact Mr B and Mrs B before the loan expired in March 
2019: I dont think this extended the loan or changed the repayment date. 
When BridgeCrowd contacted Mr B and Mrs B in September 2018, it gave them options. 
One was to extend the loan for six months and pay interest at the defaulted rate. The second 
option was another six months extension, with fees and interest added to the loan. Mr B and 
Mrs B chose the second option. I cant see anything to suggest they were misled about the 
extension being for six months.
Mrs B says they didnt sign an agreement saying the loan would be repaid in March 2019. I 
note that the copy of the second supplementary agreement provided by BridgeCrowd isnt 
signed. However, this and the emails from Mr B and Mrs B saying they chose a six months 
extension are the best evidence available to me of what was agreed. 
I think the parties agreed that the loan would be extended to March 2019.  
Mr B and Mrs B say that BridgeCrowd should have contacted them before the loan expired 
in March 2019. I also think BridgeCrowd could have contacted Mr B and Mrs B sooner. But I 
dont think it would have changed the outcome here.
The lack of communication from BridgeCrowd didnt change the date that the loan was due 
to be repaid. Mr B and Mrs B hadnt sold their property, and so they werent in a position to 
repay the loan in March 2019. Indeed, Mr B and Mrs B didn't repay the loan (either by the 
sale of the property or refinancing) in September 2019, when they say they thought it was to 
be repaid. BridgeCrowd didnt have to offer Mr B and Mrs B another extension and it hasn't 
said it would have offered this. Overall, it seems unlikely matters would have been different if 
BridgeCrowd had contacted Mr B and Mrs B in March 2019.
When they brought the complaint to us, Mr B and Mrs B said they wanted time to sell the 
property at its market value. Im very sorry for the position Mr B and Mrs B are in. Theyve 
been unable to sell the property and raise the funds needed to repay the loan. But I must 
also take into account that they took the loan out in September 2017, for a six months term. 
More than two years have passed and they havent sold the property or repaid the loan. BridgeCrowd wants to recover the debt. I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances for 
me to require it to hold recovery action while Mr B and Mrs B continue to try to sell the 
property.
Mrs B says they want to understand the default interest, default fees and other fees applied 
to the loan. The complaint Mr B and Mrs B brought to us was about the lack of 
communication from BridgeCrowd, which they say led to them not repaying the loan on its 
due date. The default interest and fees are a consequence of this. However, I think what Mrs 
B is now concerned about is whether default interest and fees have been applied by 
BridgeCrowd fairly and in accordance with the loan agreements. This wasn't part of the 
complaint when it was brought to us. And, so far as Im aware, BridgeCrowd hasnt had an 
opportunity to look into these concerns. So I cant consider these issues here. If Mr B and 
Mrs B remain concerned about the interest and fees applied to the loan, they should raise 
their concerns with BridgeCrowd. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman