DRN-3170721
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Portal Financial Services LLP provided her with inappropriate advice 
about the transfer of some pension benefits.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mrs M met with Portal in June 2016 to discuss the potential transfer of some pension 
benefits she held in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) provided by a former 
employer. Mrs M also held a much larger defined benefit pension entitlement with her 
current employer.
At the time it gave the advice to Mrs M Portal recorded some information about her 
circumstances. It noted that she was separated from her husband and was aged 58. 
She said that she intended to retire at age 66, one year later than the normal 
retirement age of the OPS. Mrs M told Portal that she wanted to access her pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS  also known as tax free cash) to help pay off her 
mortgage. And she said that she wanted to ensure that her pension savings could be 
passed onto her children and grandchildren if she died before she reached her 
retirement.
Portal advised Mrs M that she could meet her objectives in a financially prudent 
manner by transferring her pension savings from the OPS to a personal pension 
plan. Mrs M accepted Portals recommendation and transferred her pension savings, 
taking a PCLS at the time.
I then went on to explain how this Service looks at complaints and the relevant regulations at 
the time the advice was provided before saying;
As can be seen from the above, the presumption that Portal should have used when 
looking at Mrs Ms situation was that a transfer of her pension benefits from the OPS 
to a new personal pension would not have been in her best interests. It then needed 
to consider whether, given the information it had gathered and the analysis it had 
performed, there were compelling reasons why it might be appropriate to recommend 
that Mrs M does in fact make the transfer.
I think the right starting point for that analysis would be consideration of what Portal 
called a Pension Transfer Analysis report (generally known as TVAS). That report 
assessed the investment performance that Mrs M would need to achieve in order to 
replicate the guaranteed benefits she would be giving up by agreeing to a transfer. 
So Ive looked carefully at the conclusions that were presented in that report.
But in doing that review I also need to be mindful of the information Mrs M gave to 
Portal at the time about her personal circumstances, and how those might affect the 
benefits she could take from the OPS. Mrs M told Portal that she was separated from 
her husband. So that would seem to imply that she wouldnt find much use for some 
of the benefits that the OPS offered in terms of a dependents pension after her 
death. So when looking at the investment performance that might be needed to 
replace the OPS benefits I think it would be
 
reasonable to discount those benefits relating to a spouse. And it is generally the 
case that a consumer will want to minimise the amount of income tax they need to 
pay on any pension income. One way of doing that is by taking some of the pension 
benefits in the form of a tax free PCLS. So I think that should also form part of the 
analysis of the TVAS report.
So taking those two factors into consideration I can see that Portal calculated 
Mrs Ms transferred pension savings would need to grow at a rate of around 3% per 
annum in order to match the guaranteed benefits she was giving up.
Portal had assessed Mrs Ms attitude to risk as part of its advice process. That 
assessment determined that Mrs M could be said to have a balanced attitude to 
risk. And the investment portfolio that Portal recommended matched that risk 
appetite. I think that it would have been reasonable to conclude that Mrs Ms 
transferred pension savings were likely to achieve sufficient investment returns to 
provide similar benefits, on a single life basis, to those she would have received from 
the OPS.
But I dont think that simply improving her retirement income was the main driver 
behind Mrs Ms decision to seek advice from Portal. In her conversations with our 
investigator she has said that she was very concerned about her life expectancy, 
since other female members of her family had generally died before reaching 
retirement age. Whilst I cant see that Mrs M was suffering from any ill health at the 
time, I think she did have genuine concerns about her likely life expectancy. So she 
wanted to ensure, as far as possible, that her two children, and her grandchildren, 
might benefit from her retirement savings if she died prematurely.
From the information that Portal gathered at the time, the OPS would generally only 
provide benefits after a members death to their spouse. Children would only be 
eligible to be considered for a dependents pension if they were under the age of 18 
at the date of death (or under 23 and in full time education). Mrs M had told Portal 
that her children were all grown-up so I dont think either of those scenarios applied. 
So, on her death it seems unlikely to me that the OPS would have paid any further 
benefits to her children or grandchildren.
When she applied for her personal pension plan I can see that Mrs M completed a 
death benefit nomination form for the pension provider. And on that form she 
nominated her two children, and five grandchildren, to be considered to receive 
benefits from the pension plan in the event of her death. So I think that showed an 
important reason why Mrs M might have found the transfer of her pension benefits 
from the OPS to be attractive.
In its fact find, and in its advice report, Portal recorded that Mrs M wanted to gain 
immediate access to her PCLS in order to use it towards paying off her mortgage. 
In particular the fact find document contained detailed and specific information about 
Mrs Ms finances  so it seems reasonable to conclude she had been heavily 
involved in its completion.I appreciate that when she made this complaint Mrs M said that she had no need of 
the PCLS at that time, and that her mortgage remains unpaid. But Im not persuaded 
that was what she told Portal at the time. I dont think that, in the specific 
circumstances of this case, I have any reason to conclude that Mrs M didnt tell Portal 
that she wished to take the PCLS and use it to repay her mortgage. Whilst that might 
not have been a financial necessity, I do think it might have been attractive to Mrs M, 
and would have provided her with some additional disposable income each month.
 
As I said earlier, this pension only formed a small part of Mrs Ms expected income in 
retirement. She had also accrued 25 years benefits in the OPS provided by her 
current employer. And she also would receive the state pension some years later. So 
Mrs M had other guaranteed benefits that she would be able to use to support her 
retirement. I think that would have helped mitigate the additional risk that Mrs M was 
taking by transferring these pension benefits and giving up the guarantees provided 
by the OPS.
Mrs Ms situation was not common in those seeking advice on transferring OPS 
benefits. The benefits she wanted to transfer formed only a small part of her savings 
for retirement. There was little to suggest, given her circumstances at the time, that 
transferring those benefits would leave her worse off. And the ability to protect her 
retirement savings for her family, in the event of an early death, and taking her PCLS 
early, was reasonably enough to outweigh the loss of the guarantees provided by the 
OPS. So in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont currently think the 
advice Portal gave to Mrs M was inappropriate.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mrs M and Portal have said they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
think the advice that Portal gave to Mrs M, to transfer her pension benefits from the OPS, 
was inappropriate. So I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Portal Financial Services LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman