DRN-3770261
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr M paid a £15 deposit and was required to make 41 monthly repayments of 
around £205. The total repayable under the agreement was around £8,401.
Mr M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit check and verifying Mr Ms 
monthly income through two months of bank statements. It says it then calculated Mr Ms 
monthly repayment offer based on his income and allowing an appropriate amount for his 
non-discretionary expenditure.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr M didnt agree and said he couldnt afford the repayments and was out of work for six 
months. He said he explained his situation to Moneybarn, but it wouldnt decrease the early 
settlement amount. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn has explained some of the results from its credit check but it hasnt provided a 
copy. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr M. I think this gives a 
good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application it 
shows that Mr M was managing his outstanding commitments well and had no defaults or 
county court judgments in place. Therefore, I do not find that the credit checks would have 
suggested he was in financial difficulty or that the agreement shouldnt have been provided.
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr M about his income. I say this because it asked about his income 
and verified this through two months of bank statements. Moneybarn has said that it 
calculated its repayment offer taking into account an amount for Mr Ms non-discretionary 
expenditure, however as it had copies of Mr Ms bank statements I think it would have been 
reasonable to have used this as part of its expenditure assessment.
Ive reviewed the two months of bank statements that Mr M provided as part of his 
application. Moneybarn verified Mr Ms average monthly income from his bank statements 
as around £2,154. The statements do not show any serious concerns that Mr M was 
struggling financially at the time and taking into account his regular expenses for costs such 
as transport, food and other credit commitments, I do not find I can say that the agreement 
appeared unaffordable. 
Mr M has also complained that Moneybarn didnt assist him when he asked about settling 
the agreement early. I have looked through the system notes provided and can see that 
Mr M requested early settlement figures on several occasions and these were provided. 
Mr M explained that he wanted to pay a discounted amount due to his circumstances. While 
I understand that Mr M is upset that his offers of settlement payments werent accepted, 
Moneybarn wasnt required to accept a reduced offer. I can see that Moneybarn did discuss 
the settlement with Mr M and while I understand that Mr M doesnt think it did enough to 
assist him, based on the information I have seen I do not find I can say it treated him 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman