DRN-2248657
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs A. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs A was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
The form, which Mrs A filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you 
make by signing separately in a box. So I think Mrs A was probably aware she was taking 
out the policy, and that she had a choice about it - even if she doesnt now remember it, so 
many years later. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs As 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs A to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs A clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs A. The form gives some basic information about costs, but not much else.
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But in 
Mrs As circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was 
given a choice, which I accept she says didnt happen  Ive explained my thinking on that 
issue, above.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer 
than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer 
sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear she had many alternative reliable means to 
pay her living expenses and credit account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she 
did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. Also, it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs A took the PPI.
My conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman