DRN-3165464
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
landlord insurance policy.
Mr R is represented by a loss assessor, which Ill refer to as O.
What happened
Mr R is the leaseholder of a flat, and he lets the property to a tenant. Mr R made a claim on 
his landlord insurance policy after he discovered water damage to various ceilings and 
internal walls, during an inspection in September 2020. 
Mr R has explained that the tenant is elderly and vulnerable. He says when he discovered 
the damage in September 2020, the tenant told him the damage had been ongoing since 
February 2020, but he was scared to tell Mr R as he didnt want to leave his home. Mr R 
says the inspection was due in April 2020, but the pandemic delayed it.
Mr R says the damage has been caused by rainwater ingress via a broken tile. He believes 
the tile was damaged during storms in February 2020. He says the roofs maintenance and 
repairs are the freeholders responsibility, but nonetheless he arranged for a roofer to 
replace the broken tile to prevent further damage.
UKI appointed a loss adjuster. He reported the internal damage was extensive and had 
happened gradually. He also noted other issues at the property and didnt consider a 
slightly lifted tile could have caused such damage. So, he declined the claim.
Mr R brought a complaint to this service. Hes noted the policy covers storm, tempest and 
any accidental cause. He says the damage should be covered. Mr R also disputes the tile 
had only lifted. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it 
should be upheld. Mr R disagreed, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I previously issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint. 
Ill summarise the main points:
- I was satisfied there were storm conditions in February 2020. I also said Mr Rs photo 
shows a relatively substantial part of the tile had broken off, rather than a tile simply 
lifting. I was persuaded that this explained the damage to the ceilings below, for 
which an alternative cause hadnt been offered.
- I was persuaded the damage to the tile was storm damage. I also said it follows that 
the damage to the hallway ceiling and walls was likely caused by rainwater ingress 
via the broken tile, given this area is directly below. 
- Given the damage to the tile and the eight-months between the storm and the loss 
adjusters visit, I was also persuaded that widespread internal damage could have 
occurred. I accepted there were other causes of damp at the property, but I was 
persuaded the rainwater ingress via the broken tile was the main cause of the 
internal damage. Therefore, I was persuaded the internal damage had been 
caused by storm, tempest.
- I went on to consider whether UKI could fairly decline the claim based on the policy 
exclusions and conditions. I accepted the internal damage had occurred gradually 
over eight months. But having reviewed the policy terms, I hadnt found a gradual 
damage policy exclusion that applied to the policy generally, or specifically to the 
storm, tempest coverage. I was also persuaded that Mr R had complied with the 
policy conditions by inspecting the property on an annual basis, and by reporting 
the damage as soon as he had become aware. 
In response to my provisional decision, UKIs loss adjusters explained that it didnt consider 
the extent of the damage could have occurred over eight months. It provided a street view 
image of the property from a well-known website. The image showed a tile, in the area in 
question, was broken in July 2017. 
I explained to O that, in view of the image provided by UKI, I was no longer intending to 
uphold the complaint. I set out the following:
- The image suggests the damage was ongoing for over three years, rather than the 
eight months previously quoted. If so, I cant reasonably decide that UKI needs to 
cover the claim.
- Firstly, Mr R needs to identify when the tile was damaged, so we can check whether 
the damage was caused by storm force winds. Given theres no clear indication of 
when the tile was damaged, we cant do that. 
- Secondly, the policy contains the following three conditions: the terms require Mr R to 
take reasonable precautions to minimise loss; to keep the premises in a good state of 
repair; and to immediately notify UKI of any incident that could result in a claim.
- I was persuaded that a landlord needed to undertake regular inspections to minimise 
loss and to keep the premises in a good state of repair. Therefore, if inspections 
didnt happen between 2017 and 2020, I would consider those conditions to have 
been breached.  
- On the other hand, if the inspections did happen, I would no longer be persuaded 
UKI was notified at the earliest opportunity, given the internal damage is likely to 
have been present during the inspections between 2017 and 2020.
- I said if Mr R is of the view that the tile in the image was previously repaired, or if hes 
of the view that inspections took place between 2017 and 2020, and damage wasnt 
evident, then he should provide documentary evidence.
In response, O provided four street view images from the same website. It said the images 
support its view that UKIs image shouldnt be used as evidence there was a damaged tile 
for a prolonged period before the claim was made. The images were from:
- July 2017  a different angle to the image provided by UKI, and warped 
- July 2017  a different angle to the image provided by UKI 
- August 2018 - May 2019 
O says none of the four images show tiles that are visibly damaged, whilst one image shows 
the warped effect that can occur from the software. O said my change of decision is unfairly 
based on an inconclusive image that misrepresents the condition of the tiles.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I accept street view images can sometimes be distorted, as demonstrated by one of the 
images provided by O. But in my view, its clear when distortion has occurred. I find the 
image provided by UKI to be clear, without any distortion. Therefore, I dont consider it 
unreasonable to place weight on that image or to consider it in the context of the other 
available evidence.
The two images provided by O, from July 2017, are from too far away and/or are distorted. 
Therefore, I havent placed any weight on these. Whilst the two images from August 2018 
and May 2019 are clearer, they are not clear enough, in my view, to place any weight on 
them either. There appears to be a slight change in the pattern of the tiles, in the area in 
question, which may be damage. However, the images simply arent clear enough to 
reasonably conclude either way.
Ive also been on the website, to see if there are any other images available, that might be 
clear, but I couldnt find any. So, the only image thats sufficiently clear, in my view, is the 
one provided by UKI. This is close up and shows a broken tile in the area in question.
Based on the information that was available at the time of my provisional decision, and the 
arguments being made by UKI at that time, overall, I considered it reasonable to give Mr R 
the benefit of doubt. But I have since revisited the photos of the internal damage, which is 
relatively significant, and widespread, given theres a single broken tile. In the context of 
the image provided by UKI, on balance, Im more persuaded the rainwater ingress had 
been ongoing since at least July 2017, than only from February 2020. 
I accept my conclusions could be wrong here. But having carefully weighed the information 
available, on balance, Im persuaded the issue was more longstanding than Mr R says. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr R, given my provisional findings.
This means, as per the reasons I set out in my correspondence to O after my provisional 
decision, which are also detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint. Overall, Im not 
persuaded that UKIs decision to decline the claim was unfair.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman