DRN-2558117
The complaint
L, a company in voluntary liquidation, complains about a six-week delay on the part of Bank 
of Scotland plc in releasing funds from its 32-day fixed term deposit account.  
What happened
L, represented by Mr K, the liquidator, complains that there was a six-week delay in 
processing the closure of Ls 32-day account with Bank of Scotland (the 32-day account) 
and the transfer of approximately £865,000 to the liquidator. 
Mr K authorised Mr Q, a former director and shareholder of L, to act as his representative in 
relation to the conduct of this complaint.
The shareholders of L, Mr Q and Ms M say that theyve suffered a loss as a result of this 
delay. The £865,000 was to be distributed to them, so there was also a delay in this 
happening. Mr Q and Ms M say that they would have invested it on receipt, and the delay in 
getting these funds resulted in them losing out on the opportunity for growth in the value of 
their investment. They asked Bank of Scotland to reimburse them for this potential loss of 
opportunity. 
Bank of Scotland offered Mr Q £500 in his personal capacity for the inconvenience but 
declined to offer anything in respect of the lost opportunity as this was speculative. Mr Q was 
not happy with this and brought the case to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the case and said that the eligible complainant here is L, 
represented by the liquidator Mr K. Because of this she could only consider loss suffered by 
L. This meant that she could not consider the losses claimed by Mr Q and Ms M. She noted 
that Bank of Scotland had offered compensation of £500 to Mr Q in his personal capacity, 
but this was not something she could comment on as Mr Q is not the eligible complainant 
here.
She considered the loss suffered by L, and noted that no interest had been paid by Bank of 
Scotland on the 32 day account between the date of maturity and the date on which the 
funds were transferred to Mr K. She thought that Bank of Scotland should pay interest to L at 
the rate that was applicable to the account in respect of this period, which it has agreed to 
do. She didnt think any further compensation was required.
Mr Q was not happy with this and asked for the case to be passed to an Ombudsman, so the 
case has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that I understand how frustrating the delays must have been, and I can 
understand that Mr Q and Ms M are looking for recourse in relation to their investment 
opportunity. But the account relationship here is between Bank of Scotland and L 
(represented by Mr K, the liquidator). So, I can only consider what Bank of Scotland needs to 
do in respect losses suffered by L, as Bank of Scotlands customer, because of its failings.
When L went into liquidation in mid-March 2020, its accounts with Bank of Scotland had to 
be closed. These included the 32-day account, which matured in early April. This account 
was overlooked by Bank of Scotland, and after multiple phone calls between Mr Q and the 
bank, and some issues regarding the correct destination account, the funds were transferred 
to the liquidator and transferred on to Mr Q and Ms M, in late May 2020.  
Bank of Scotland awarded £500 compensation to Mr Q in his personal capacity for the poor 
service he received. It didnt offer any compensation to Mr Q in relation to the loss of 
investment opportunity he claimed, as it said this was speculative. As Mr Q isnt the eligible 
complainant here, Im not able to comment further on the position here. Thats between Mr Q 
as an individual and Bank of Scotland and not something I can address as a part of this 
decision.
Mr Q suggests that L has been put into the position of having to pay compensation to the 
shareholders due to this delay, and that this represents a loss to L. Mr Q has provided 
information about the loss that he would seek, based on the performance of a reasonable 
investment portfolio during the six-week period. But I havent seen any evidence to confirm 
that L or the liquidator is liable to pay such compensation and I cant speculate as to the 
likely outcome of any such claim. As such, I cant reasonably conclude that L has suffered 
any loss on account of this.
Looking further at the financial detriment that may have been caused to L, no evidence has 
been provided to suggest that the delay had any particular financial impact on the conduct of 
the liquidation. For example, our investigator asked about debts that may have increased, 
due to a delay in funds being available for payment, but I have not seen any evidence of this.  
Putting things right
With regard to the 32-day account itself, the maturity date was in early April 2020. No further 
interest was paid to this account after the maturity date. Bank of Scotland has offered to pay 
interest at the account rate between the maturity date, and the date on which the funds were 
released, some six weeks later, amounting to £111.88. I think this is fair given the delay, and 
as the funds remained in an interest-bearing account during this period.  
In summary, I am satisfied that Bank of Scotland have made a reasonable offer here in 
respect of the matters that I am able to consider, and I wont be asking it to do any more.
I know that Mr Q will be disappointed with this, but I hope that he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ls complaint in part.
I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay L the sum of £111.88 in compensation, as it has 
already agreed to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman