DRN-1747662
 
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Countrywide Assured Plc gave incorrect information about the 
benefits available to her under a critical illness policy she jointly holds with Mr M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a Critical Illness Account with Countrywide.
In 2009 Mrs M was diagnosed with Parkinsons Disease. She made an enquiry with 
Countrywide in 2011 to ask whether she could make a claim for her condition. Countrywide 
told her it couldnt see any critical illness definitions attached to the policy that related 
specifically to Parkinsons Disease. 
Mrs M followed up with Countrywide in 2019 as her condition had progressed and she was 
having difficulty working. She had also found an endorsement to her policy issued in 1994 
which added specific cover for degenerative diseases, including Parkinsons Disease. She 
wanted to make a claim for the condition.
Countrywide accepted that it had been mistaken before and explained what would be 
required for a claim to be paid for degenerative diseases. It said a claim would be payable if 
Mrs Ms condition permanently prevented her from carrying out three or more activities of 
daily living. It said permanent meant, beyond hope of recovery using presently known 
medical or surgical procedures.
Mrs M queried whether Countrywides definition of permanent allowed it to take the effect 
of her medication on her ability to perform the tasks into account. Countrywide said it did. 
Mrs M didnt agree with this, so she complained. Countrywide maintained that she could only 
be considered permanently unable to do the tasks if she was still unable to do them when 
taking her medication.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. She thought Countrywide was imposing 
unreasonable extra conditions on the claim. She also thought she had been prevented from 
making a claim in 2011 when she had been misinformed about the scope of her cover.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, so the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
I decided to uphold the complaint and wrote to both parties to explain why. I thought 
Countrywides definition of permanent was ambiguous as it appeared to exclude the effects 
of medication. So, I thought Countrywide should consider Mrs Ms claim for critical illness 
benefit under the degenerative diseases definition. I said Countrywide couldnt take account 
of the effect of Mrs Ms medication on her ability to perform the activities of daily living. I also 
thought Countrywide should pay £500 for the misinformation in 2011.
Countrywide agreed to pay £500 but didnt agree with my findings in respect of the claim. It 
said a reasonable person would understand that medication was captured by the phrase 
medical or surgical procedures.
Mrs M accepted the £500 for the misinformation, but thought that if her claim was successful 
it should be backdated to 2011.
I explained that I couldnt make a finding on whether the claim was payable now or in 2011. 
But I would expect Countrywide to consider any evidence Mrs M wished to provide about her 
disability and the impact of it on her ability to perform the activities of daily living from 2011.
As both parties have provided their comments in response to my provisional decision, I can 
now provide my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for the reasons Ive already provided, which I will set out 
below.
Under the terms of the policy, the definition of degenerative diseases says:
Confirmation by a consultant physician of a degenerative disease such as Parkinson's 
Disease, Alzheimer's Disease, motor neurone or Fredreichs Ataxia disease resulting in a 
permanent inability to perform at least three of the following Activities of Daily Living, with the 
use of appropriate mechanical equipment, special devices or other aids and adaptations in 
use for disabled people.
For the purposes of this benefit, the word "permanent" shall mean beyond hope of recovery 
using presently known medical or surgical procedures.
Countrywide initially told Mrs M and our service that it believed medication would be 
considered as an 'aid'. But I think that is using 'aid' as a verb, i.e. something that helps. In 
the definition, "aids" appears in this sequence:
"...appropriate mechanical equipment, special devices or other aids and adaptations in use 
for disabled people."
I think here "aids" is used as a noun  it appears within a sequence that describes physical 
equipment/adaptations in use for disabled people. So, I don't think medication can 
reasonably considered as "other aids" in this context. Countrywide has accepted this point.
I also don't think medication falls within the scope of medical procedure. A procedure is 
commonly understood and defined as a set of actions or a process. I don't think a 
reasonable consumer would consider taking medication to be included in this phrase. I think 
a fair reading of the term medical procedure would be a non-surgical procedure.
Countrywide has said that instead of focusing on the definition of procedure I should 
instead be looking at the definition for 'medical procedure'. It says an online dictionary 
carries a definition of medical procedure, which refers to medical treatment or an operation. 
It said that medication would fall under the heading of medical treatments. So, in 
Countrywides view, a medical procedure can and does refer to medicine.
I've carefully considered the point Countrywide has made about the definition of 'medical 
procedure'. But after doing a search across a number of online dictionaries, the dictionary it 
has mentioned is the only source Ive found that seems to have a specific definition of that 
phrase. And even then, the definition refers to treatment, rather than medication specifically. Ultimately, I think the term medical or surgical procedures is ambiguous, and I don't think a 
reasonable consumer would consider 'medication' to be a medical procedure. Where there is 
ambiguity I would interpret this in favour of the consumer, as they didn't draft the contract. 
So, I still don't think Countrywide can consider the effect of medication on Mrs M's ability to 
perform the tasks when it considers her claim.
 
I don't doubt that Countrywide intended the policy terms to be read differently and ensure 
that claims of this nature are only paid when all treatment options are exhausted. But I don't 
think Countrywide's term achieves this  it defines 'permanent' in a specific way, so it doesn't 
leave any room for any other interpretation. For this reason, I think Countrywide should 
assess Mrs M's claim for critical illness benefit without taking into account the effect of her 
medication. I'm not making any finding as to whether this claim is payable, Countrywide will 
need to do a full assessment in accordance with the remaining terms.
I can see that when Mrs M raised the issue of her ability to complete the tasks if she didn't 
take her medication, Countrywide raised this exclusion:
'The Person Insured will not be regarded as permanently disabled If the injury or illness 
arises directly or indirectly from any of the following:
c) Unreasonable failure to seek or follow medical advice.'
But I don't think this could reasonably be applied here. Mrs M doesn't intend to stop taking 
her medication. Her point is that Countrywide's definition doesn't allow it to consider the 
effects of medication on her ability to perform these tasks. For the reasons given above, 
I agree that Countrywides definition doesnt allow it to take into account the effect of her 
medication on her level of functioning. So, Countrywide will need to carry out an assessment 
of Mrs Ms ability to perform the activities of daily living excluding the effects of her 
medication on her ability to perform those tasks.
Mrs M has said that she was denied the opportunity to make a claim in 2011, so if 
Countrywide accepts her claim now it should be backdated. 
I appreciate that Mrs M may have chosen to make a claim in 2011 if shed been advised 
correctly about the cover she had for her condition. But as no medical evidence has been 
provided or considered in respect of her ability to claim, I can't make any judgment on 
whether the claim ought to have been paid at an earlier stage. If Mrs M wants to provide 
Countrywide with evidence that supports that she was totally unable to perform three of the 
activities of daily living from 2011, I would expect Countrywide to consider it and factor it in to 
its decision. However, I haven't seen enough in respect of this complaint to show that Mrs M 
has been denied an earlier claim payment. For this reason, I think the £500 offered by 
Countrywide is reasonable for the mistake it made in 2011.
Putting things right
Countrywide should assess Mrs M's claim for critical illness benefit without taking into 
account the effect of her medication on her ability to perform the activities of daily living. This 
assessment doesnt require Mrs M to stop taking her medication. Countrywide should 
consider any evidence Mrs M wishes to provide about her illness and level of functioning 
whilst she has had the cover in place.
Countrywide should pay Mrs M £500 for the trouble and upset caused by the misinformation 
in 2011. Although I understand this has already been paid to her.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
Countrywide Assured Plc should consider Mrs Ms claim for critical illness benefit under the 
terms stipulated above.
Countrywide Assured Plc should pay Mrs M £500 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman