DRN-2827705
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Link Financial Outsourcing Limiteds (Link) actions in pursuing him for 
a debt. He feels it is harassing him.   
What happened
Mr L had two credit cards and a loan. The original lender sold the outstanding balances on 
the credit cards to a debt purchaser in June 2017. And in May 2018 they also sold the 
outstanding balance on the loan to the same business. Link act on behalf of the debt 
purchaser to seek repayment of the debts.
Mr L complained to Link in October 2020 as he felt it was harassing him regarding the debts. 
Specifically, he said hed recently received three phone calls and six letters in one day. He 
felt the level of contact by Link was unreasonable and he explained that this had severely 
impacted his mental health and had caused him to have to seek treatment for this.
Link said that, as it was responsible for collecting three different accounts it had called Mr L 
about each of them individually. It had also sent two letters regarding each account, which 
was why hed received so many similar letters. It apologised for this and acknowledged that 
this amount of contact wasnt necessary. It offered Mr L £30 for the upset caused. It also 
arranged for his accounts to be transferred to a specialist support team, in recognition of 
what Mr L had now said about how this had impacted him. It explained it hadnt done so 
sooner, as Mr L had not previously made it aware of these issues.
Unhappy with Links response, Mr L asked our service to consider his complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into things. He noted Link accepted the level of contact in early October 
2020 was inappropriate. So, he thought about whether the offer made by Link was fair. He 
didnt feel it went far enough to address the upset caused and said Link should increase its 
offer to £100. He also said he thought Link had acted reasonably by referring Mr Ls 
accounts to its dedicated support team once hed informed it of the impact this had on him 
and his mental health. 
Link said it agreed with the investigators opinion. Mr L did not. He said he didnt feel the 
recommendation was fair or that the investigator had fully considered the impact on his 
mental health. He added, as he had three accounts, he thought at minimum Link should pay 
him three amounts of compensation  so suggested it pay £300. 
As Mr L didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Link has provided transaction records for each of the three accounts. These show that the 
last payment to any of the accounts was in early 2019. The outstanding balances were still 
due, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Link to contact Mr L to keep up to date with his 
situation and enquire about repayments.
Link has also provided contact logs for correspondence it sent, and telephone calls made. 
The call notes indicate that Mr L made Link aware around May 2019 that hed been made 
redundant so wasnt in a position to make repayments at that time. The records indicate that 
the accounts were then placed on hold, temporarily. The contact notes indicate that after this 
Link contacted Mr L every couple of months to see if his situation had changed. Mr L kept 
Link updated with his situation  that it was largely unchanged  and it appears Link placed 
the accounts back on hold for a couple of months at a time following each update, and that 
this continued until October 2020. Based on what Ive seen, in the period in question, I dont 
think the amount of contact from Link was unreasonable.
At the start of October 2020 Link attempted to contact Mr L again regarding the accounts. It 
attempted one call and sent two letters in respect of each account. But as Mr L had three 
accounts, this resulted in him receiving three calls and six letters, in one day. Link has 
acknowledged that this level of contact wasnt appropriate. And I agree. I think Link was still 
entitled to attempt to contact Mr L about the balances at that stage. But it wouldve been 
better for it to have made one attempt to contact him about all three accounts.
As Link has done something wrong, Ive thought about what it should do to put matters right. 
Mr L has said that this impacted his mental health causing him significant distress. And he 
provided Link with information showing hed sought assistance from a medical professional 
in respect of his mental health. I dont doubt what Mr L has said about the impact that this 
had on him. Ive reviewed the contact notes of the correspondence Mr L had with Link prior 
to this. And the notes dont indicate that Mr L made Link aware before his complaint in 
October 2020 about the mental health issues he was suffering. So, while I agree that Link 
made a mistake in terms of the volume of contact with Mr L at the beginning of October 
2020, Im conscious it doesnt seem to have been aware prior to this of the issues he was 
experiencing.
Mr L has said any redress should reflect him having three separate accounts  and that he 
should be compensated in respect of each. But Im not considering the operation of the three 
separate accounts, rather Im looking at the overall upset caused to him by the way Link has 
communicated with him. And having done so, while I know Mr L is likely to be disappointed, I 
think the recommendation made by the investigator, that Link pay him £100 for the upset 
caused, is a fair way to address the error made.
Mr L has said he is also unhappy that Link did not refer his accounts to its specialist support 
department sooner. But as Ive said, the information Ive seen indicates Link wasnt aware of 
the mental health issues Mr L was experiencing until he complained on 13 October 2020. 
So, I dont think I can reasonably say it needed to take this action sooner. The information 
Ive seen indicates that the accounts were transferred to the control of the dedicated 
department by 23 October 2020, shortly after Link was made aware of the reason to do so, 
so further communication with Mr L could be managed appropriately. And I think this was 
fair.Mr L has recently said he feels Link is continuing to harass him as it has sent him statements 
showing the position of his accounts. But I dont think this is necessarily unreasonable on 
Links part. As the balances are still due Link would be required to make Mr L aware of the 
position of the accounts. And I think sending a statement is a reasonable way to do this. I 
would expect however, Link to consider the frequency at which it sends correspondence like 
this, taking into account what Mr L has told it previously about the stress these matters 
cause him, and for its support team to engage with Mr L about this if necessary.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right Link Financial Outsourcing Limited should pay Mr L £100 for the upset it 
has caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman