DRN-3299556
The complaint
Mr G complains that technical issues with IG Markets Limiteds mobile application 
prevented him from trading, causing him financial losses. He also complains about their 
approach to margin calls.
What happened
Mr Ms position
Mr M held a Contracts for Difference (CFD) account with IG Markets Limited (IG). On 8 
December 2021, he says he tried to access his account via the application on his mobile 
phone with the intention of trading but kept getting error messages so was unable to do this. 
He says the mobile application failed to connect to IG servers despite there being no issues 
with his network coverage. He says when he was able to login in, he attempted to open 
positions in SFE, but the application closed his already open positions. He says this left him 
with a loss of around £1530.
He was unhappy IGs approach to the margin call closure of his position on 9 December 
2021 at 18:27. He says he was given 15 minutes between receiving IGs shortfall of funds 
notification and when the positions were closed out. He received an earlier margin call on 30 
November 2021 where he says he was given over 3 hours. He says the disparity in IGs 
treatment of margin calls between the two positions has cost him around £3500.
On 10 January 2022, he attempted to open a single bitcoin position but says he received an 
error message. He therefore attempted to trade three more times and then found all four 
were successful. When he complained to IG, they made him good will payment of £243.09.
On 11 January 2022, he attempted to close a further position which he says was opened 
with the intention of it being a quick trade, but the mobile application wouldnt connect 
despite having full signal. He says this left him around £500 out of pocket.
He also says IG service high risk products but have systems in place to make sure its an 
uneven playing field and the client is the one who suffers.
To resolve his complaint, he would either like his positions to be voided and losses 
reinstated or for IG to re-open the positions at the original prices so he can close them of his 
own accord. 
IGs position 
They issued their final response in February 2021. In relation to the SFE positions, that Mr G 
already had an order to sell his positions and wouldnt have been able to close the same 
positions on the mobile application at the same time. SFE stock was unborrowable stock in 
the market at that time and so he could not take any short positions online. They say the 
orders were not rejected because of any fault of IG and were correctly rejected.
They say Mr G failed to understand IGs margin policy, that he had to maintain the account 
equity above 50% of his total margin. They say his margin fell to 48.1% in November 2021 
and 45.4% in December 2021 and so his positions had correctly closed as a result of margin 
call. 
They also considered his complaint in relation to the Bitcoin positions on 10 and 11 January 
2022. IG say there was no technical issue with the mobile application and any issues Mr G 
incurred are more likely to be localised issues on his end. They also say, he could have re-
entered the market straight away to make up for all the affected positions, as he had become 
aware of the closure of his positions almost immediately, but he chose not to do this. 
IG accept online trading was restricted for short positions for a period of seven minutes 
between 8:29pm and 8:36pm at which point Bitcoin status changed to phone dealing only. 
They say this was done because a potential pricing issue had been flagged and so was not 
done in error. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr G brought his complaint to this service.
Investigators view
The investigator here didnt uphold his complaint. He concluded the following:-
1. There was no issue with the businesses systems and Mr Gs attempts to trade in 
SFE stock were rejected correctly due the short sell stock being unborrowable on the 
market.
2. The margin equity requirements are that the account needs to be maintained at a 
minimum of 50%. How quickly the margin moves from 50% to below this is entirely 
dependent on how quick the markets move. When the margin falls below 50%, IG 
can close his positions, which is what they did here.
3. He didnt think the issues with Bitcoin were because of any mobile application 
failings. He said Mr G had failed to enable the force open function which meant he 
wasnt able to open the new positions and it closed his already open positions. He 
didnt think IG were responsible for any of his losses. The investigator acknowledged 
that £243.09 and already been paid to Mr G and confirmed, IGs offer of £252.93 to 
refund losses incurred in the first position was still open for acceptance.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view, so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information and evidence that I have 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Having done so, I am not 
upholding this complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I will explain 
further.
Trading in SFE 
Mr G says there were issues with the IGs mobile application, when he tried to open SFE 
positions, it closed his previously opened positions. Ive looked at his account summary to 
see the different positions he mentions. I could see he had an existing long position at 
10:42:04 of £300 per point and he had placed an order to sell it - this was in addition to his 
later attempts to close SFE positions. While there is an order to sell being worked already, Mr G wouldnt have been able to sell the same positions online on the platform or mobile 
application. 
Mr Gs additional attempts to sell were considered short trades but because SFE stock was 
restricted for a period and unborrowable in the market, customers were not able to short 
positions online. This would explain why his attempts to trade were rejected and so I am 
satisfied there was no IT issue with the mobile application which was preventing him from 
trading. 
Margin Call
I think it is important to outline what the obligations are on Mr G and IG with regards to 
margins. The terms and conditions of the Customer Agreement confirms that he is 
responsible for maintaining his account margin, and that this should be maintained above 
the required minimum of 50%. As professional client with an execution only account, this 
remains his responsibility and is not for IG to manage this. 
IG are not obliged to send customers a notice of margin call, but I have seen copies of an 
automatically generated notice which was sent to Mr G by email when his account margin 
fell below 100% and then at 75%. Where the margin hasnt been maintained above 50%, IG 
are within their rights to close any open positions.
This is what happened in Mr Gs situation. His account margin fell below 50%, so he had to 
ensure he added sufficient funds to increase the margin to the required amount and 
safeguard any open positions. On 30 November his positions were closed after his account 
margin dropped to 48.1%, and again on 9 December when his account margin fell to 45.4% 
and IG closed his positions in order to bring his account within the margin, so Im satisfied 
his positions had correctly closed as a result of margin call.
To address Mr Gs concerns around the lack of consistency between the way both margin 
calls were managed and not having enough time in December to manage the margin. There 
is no particular time frame or requirement to allow sufficient time between notifications. The 
movement in the market dictates the prices and how quickly the margin drops below the 
required levels. It is not possible for IG to ensure any consistency in these areas, and this is 
something entirely outside of IGs control, so I dont think it is fair or reasonable to use a 
situation outside of their reasonable control to determine there was a lack of consistency on 
IGs part. 
Trading in Bitcoin
Mr G complained about Bitcoin positions on the 10 and 11 January 2021, that he tried to 
open positions but kept receiving error messages and later found all the positions had 
opened and when trying to open positions these closed his existing open positions. 
Ive looked at the positions Mr G complains of. IG has sent us his account ledger of the day 
he complains of, which show the Bitcoins positions were closed due to force open error. 
Both IG and the investigator have discussed the force open option on the mobile 
application; the issue around this is whether Mr G had opted into this or not. Hes provided 
evidence showing he had opted in, but I can see this only shows the day after the event he 
is complaining of. On the other hand, the records of activity on the mobile application clearly 
shows his account is set as N for not activated because he hadnt already opted into force 
open when he tried to open the Bitcoin positions. 
When the consumer hasnt opted into this, they are not able to long and short on the same 
instrument. As a result, the default position applied to his trading on that day and the mobile application would net off by closing an already open position where he tried to sell on the 
same instrument. I am satisfied with IGs explanation that this is why his positions were 
closed instead of opening a new short position.
IG confirmed that restrictions were placed on Bitcoin online trading for a period of seven 
minutes which may explain some of the issues Mr G was having. However, IG were within 
their rights to suspend access to the online trading and in signing the Customer Agreement 
when his account was opened, he agreed to the terms outlined.
It is also important to note that these restrictions were limited to the online platform only; 
customers were still able to call IG to place orders via a broker. I take on board Mr Gs point 
that phoning brokers may be an outdated system, but in the event where an issue is 
identified with online trading, phoning brokers to trade, offers an alternative to limit the 
potential impact of any restrictions. In these circumstances, it would also mean there could 
have been an increased demand on their phone lines so speaking to a broker may take 
longer than usual. Having considered everything, I havent seen any evidence that IG had 
done something wrong. 
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, particularly as he raises concerns 
around IG having systems in place to make sure its an uneven playing field. If he does 
continue to have any concerns in relation to the way in which IG operates, he could refer his 
complaint to the regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint against IG Markets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman