DRN-1722629
The complaint
Mr B complains about a hire agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI).
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B visited a dealership where he purchased a used electric car. He also 
entered into a finance agreement, with RCI, to hire an electric battery for the car. On this 
agreement the minimum period of hire was 36 months with a monthly payment of around 
£70. 
Mr B says the dealership was originally recommended to him by a third party, and prior to 
visiting the dealership, he says he called them, and they confirmed they had the type of 
electric car that he was after. Mr B says that while at the dealership he looked through some 
of the cars service history, and this paperwork showed the car as one with a 30kW battery. 
He says that, as he didnt know there was such a thing as a 24kW battery, everything 
seemed in order. 
On the hire agreement the description of the battery has a BIN number, followed by the 
model of the car and does not contain the size of the battery. But in the section of the hire 
agreement under OTHER INFORMATION it says the battery is to be used to power the car 
and gives a description of the make, and model of the car containing the wording: 30kW. 
Mr B says that it was only later that he found out that his car had a 24kW battery and not a 
30kW, after he noticed he was not getting the expected mileage range on a single battery 
charge. He does not think the seller at the dealership misled him in any way, but he says 
that he is trying to get compensation from RCI because the hire agreement is with them, and 
he thinks they should honour it, as it is a binding contract. Since the purchase of the car and 
acquiring of the battery, Mr B has found out that a 30kW battery was not available for the 
model year of his car, as it only became available a few years later for that particular model. 
So, he thinks that a fair resolution to his complaint would be for RCI take his car and replace 
it with a 30kW model with a similar mileage, and he would pay an increase in the monthly 
hire amount, if there is one. Or, alternatively, that RCI transfer the ownership of the 24kW 
battery, currently in his car, to him thus ending the hire agreement, and provide him a refund 
of the lease payments he has already made.
RCI believe there is a mistake on Mr Bs hire agreement for the battery due to a human 
admin error, which they say most likely happened when an incorrect drop-down choice for 
the type of battery was selected during the battery transfer process from the previous owner. 
They also feel that Mr B was aware a 30kW battery was not available at the time the car was 
manufactured, and they feel that he is attempting to be provided with something to which he 
is not entitled. They say he is paying a correct amount due for a 24kW battery. RCI have 
also provided our service with the communications they had from the dealership. In these 
communications, the dealership says that a 30kW battery only became available on that 
particular model of a car a few years later, so they say there is no way that Mr B could have 
been confused as to which battery he was getting. 
Mr B was unhappy that RCI do not want to uphold his complaint, so he brought it to this 
service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points in his response to our investigators opinion. I should 
emphasise that while I have taken note of these points, I have limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. 
I understand that when Mr B was at the dealership, he looked through some of the cars 
service history, and this paperwork showed the car as one with a 30kW battery. Section 56 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that in certain situations a representation made by a 
dealership, for example when acting in a certain capacity, can be taken as being made in 
their capacity as agent of the finance provider. But this section is not relevant to this 
complaint. 
Section 56 does not apply to hire agreements like the one Mr B is complaining about. This 
means, I cannot hold RCI responsible for the things the dealership did or said during the 
sales process. This includes information that the dealership have allowed Mr B to examine  
such as the paperwork containing the cars service history, which showed the car as one 
with a 30kW battery. However, I can look at the information he was provided directly by RCI 
before he entered into the hire agreement. 
Mr B says that BIN number, on the hire agreement, is not a description but simply a 
reference number of the battery and gives no indication of the size of the battery. He says he 
has a right to expect that a battery to power a car described as a 30kW model in the hire 
agreement should be capable of powering such a car. He questions how an ordinary 
consumer is supposed to understand what the battery size is, considering that there is no 
indication of this anywhere on the car. He has referenced certain rules, guidance, codes, 
good industry practice and law to show that these were enacted in order to protect 
consumers like him from unfair or misleading practices. He says, he should have been 
treated fairly and be provided with clear information, so in an essence, he should be able to 
fully understand what goods and services he is obtaining. But he says RCI have not followed 
these guidelines. He says, he does not think that RCIs intention was to confuse customers, 
however, he does not think they paid enough attention to their documentation and he was 
not given enough information to make an informed decision. 
I agree with Mr B that when it comes to the hire agreement, I think the information could 
have been clearer. On the RCI hire agreement the description of the battery has a BIN 
number, followed by the model of the car and does not contain the size of the battery. But in 
the section under OTHER INFORMATION it says the battery is to be used to power the car 
and gives a description of the make, and model of the car as well as the wording: 30kW. 
The BIN number, most likely, is the correct number for the battery, so, most likely, the 
description of the battery is accurate. But considering the agreement says the battery is to 
be used to power a model of a car containing the wording 30kW - I think, most likely, Mr B did think he was hiring a 30kW battery because the information was not correct on the hire 
agreement.  
I know Mr B says that RCI also sent him certain correspondence after he entered into the 
hire agreement that also mentions the 30kW battery. But, I am only looking at the 
information RCI have provided to Mr B prior to him entering the hire agreement. This is 
because in order to uphold his complaint I would need to be satisfied, on balance, that he 
would not have entered the hire agreement had the correct information been provided to 
him.
With all the above in mind, I considered what Mr B would have done, had he been given the 
correct information regarding the size of the battery before entering into the hiring 
agreement. 
RCI say that Mr B is paying a correct amount due for a 24kW battery. They also think that he 
was aware a 30kW battery was not available at the time the car was manufactured, and they 
feel that he is attempting to get something to which he is not entitled to. But Mr B says that 
he wanted a battery that would provide a range in excess of 100 miles and a 24kW cannot 
do this. 
Mr B purchased the car from the dealership and the battery was already part of the car at the 
time of purchase. The dealership agreed to sell the car to Mr B considering Mr B agreed to 
enter into a hire agreement with RCI for the battery in question. Mr B signed the car 
purchase contract with the dealership and completed a battery hire proposal form, but the 
actual hire agreement was signed by Mr B on a later date. And it is the hire agreement that 
contains the information which, as I said above, most likely made Mr B think he was hiring a 
30kW battery. This is relevant because, if Mr B thought there was something wrong with the 
range and the size of the battery, I think, most likely, he would have done one of two things. 
Either he would have questioned this with the dealership before entering into the hire 
agreement for the battery; Or, he would have kept the car and entered into the hire 
agreement even if the battery was 24kW and not 30kW.  
When Mr B was about to drive back home from the dealership, he obtained reassurances 
from the dealership that the battery would get him back, without charging on the way, as he 
had an 82 mile trip ahead of him. The dealership confirmed that there was a conversation 
about this because, they say, Mr Bs home was at the cars maximum range. The dealership 
have also provided a copy of the text messages from that day between Mr B and the 
dealership, which confirms Mr B made it with six miles to spare. I think, most likely, if Mr B 
thought the battery had a longer range, he would not have questioned whether he will be 
able to get home, as he would have assumed that it would be reasonable to achieve at least 
82 miles on one charge. So, I agree with the investigator. I think, most likely, Mr B was 
aware of the battery range on the day he purchased the car, and I think if he thought there 
was something wrong with the range he got on the day when he returned from the 
dealership for the first time, he would have questioned this with the dealership before 
entering into the hire agreement for the battery. 
I know that Mr B says that he has put the fact that there were only six miles of battery range 
left down to his driving style, and the use of the heater. He says that he anticipated that as 
he learns the best way of driving an electric car, the range would increase, and that one long 
journey can hardly be considered sufficient for him to assess the true mileage range per 
charge provided by the battery. He goes on to say that it was some time before it became 
clear to him that the range he wanted was not being achieved, despite his best efforts to 
adjust his driving style. But I disagree and I think that, most likely, already at that time he 
would have questioned the low range he got during that drive. I say this because Mr B 
mentioned that a real world driving range of a new 30kW would be between 125 and 130 miles, and he says he felt confident that the range on his car would still be in excess of 100 
miles, so I think considering that he only managed 88 miles per single charge would have 
raised significant concerns for him. And I think, most likely, he would have right away 
questioned the dealership about the range. Alternatively, he would have thought about 
asking RCI to change his battery under the efficiency guarantee, as it was not getting 
anywhere near the millage he wanted, instead of waiting a few months to raise this issue 
with RCI. 
Overall, I think that had Mr B been given the correct information regarding the size of the 
battery before entering into the hiring agreement he still would have entered into the hire 
agreement. So, I do not think that RCI needs to take any further action regarding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman