DRN-4109717
The complaint
Miss G complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2019, Miss G acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
SMFL. Miss G was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £242 followed by a 
final monthly payment of around £252. The total repayable under the agreement was around 
£14,546.
Miss G says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen that she had poor credit at the time and that she had a gambling addiction. 
Because of this she says adequate checks would have shown the agreement wasnt 
affordable. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which 
included verifying that Miss Gs declared income was accurate and carrying out a credit 
check. It said that Miss Gs application was auto accepted. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought SMFL didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss G didnt agree and said that her credit commitments were much higher than had been 
recorded and that adequate checks would have shown this  including that she had several 
outstanding payday loans. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think SMFL gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Miss G about her ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check which having looked at the results suggested that Miss G was managing her active 
accounts without any major issues, and I do not find this suggested she was struggling 
financially. It also verified her declared income through a credit bureau data check. I find it 
reasonable that it relied on the outcome from this and also note that having looked at Miss G 
bank statements the recorded income amount is supported. I find it reasonable that Miss Gs 
credit commitments were taken from the credit check results and in this case, given the size 
of the repayments compared to Miss Gs verified income I do not find it unreasonable that 
estimates were used for Miss Gs costs of living and housing cost based on third party data. 
However, just because I think SMFL carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence SMFL gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable 
to Miss G. I say this because Miss G had a monthly net income of around £3,400. Based on 
the information she provided about her circumstances at the time I find the amounts included 
for her costs of living and housing costs werent unreasonable. Miss G has said her credit 
commitments were higher than the amounts recorded by SMFL and has particularly noted 
payday loans she was repaying at the time. While I note Miss Gs comment, as SMFL: 
carried out proportionate checks, I find it reasonable that it relied on the outcome of these. 
The checks did show that Miss G had some outstanding loan repayments, and these were 
included. Based on what I have seen I do not find that SMFL was wrong to rely on the 
information it received, and this didnt suggest the lending was unaffordable. For these 
reasons, I dont think SMFL acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman