DRN-3045581
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the benefit amount he has been paid by Covea Insurance plc. 
What happened
Mr C has an accident and sickness income protection policy, underwritten by Covea. Mr C is 
self-employed and in December 2019, he made a claim as he was unable to work due to an 
injury.
Covea accepted and paid the claim but Mr C was unhappy with the amount of benefit he 
received. He said Coveas policy and schedule were unclear and he expected to be paid the 
full monthly benefit that he had selected.
Mr C complained to Covea but it didnt uphold the complaint and explained how the policy 
worked. Unhappy with its response, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Covea had done anything wrong. 
Mr C disagreed and said the policy terms were ambiguous. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy schedule confirms Mr C selected a monthly benefit of £1,250. 
The key facts and policy document confirm:
The monthly benefit forms the basis of the amount payable if you are off work due to 
accident, sickness, hospitalisation or if you become unemployed (subject to your chosen 
Benefit options). The amount you can select is a maximum of 60% of your taxable monthly 
income (if you are self-employed).
Monthly benefit is defined as:
The Monthly benefit stated in your schedule, which is payable by us in the event of a 
successful claim. 
If you are self-employed, the monthly benefit will be limited to 60% of the additional cost to 
continue your business, subject to a maximum of 60% of the taxable income. 
We may pay a proportion of the monthly benefit if:
Your monthly benefit is more than 60% of your taxable income; or
You receive other income whilst claiming.
Covea calculated Mr Cs benefit based on his self-employed earnings. These came to an 
average of £1,153.17 per month. And so Covea paid Mr C 60% of this - which amounted to 
£691.90 per month. As Mr C had selected a monthly benefit in excess of this amount, Covea 
explained Mr C was over-insured and so he should get in contact with the seller of the policy. 
Covea wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. 
Mr C says the schedule is misleading and the policy wording is ambiguous. He says the 
wording is confusing and far from clear and the schedule gives the misleading impression 
that the monthly benefit is £1,250. If this is the maximum that can be paid, then this should 
clearly be stated in the schedule. 
Having considered the schedule and the policy documents, Im satisfied the summary of 
cover, on page 2, clearly confirms the monthly benefit is a maximum of 60% of taxable 
monthly income. So I dont think Covea has done anything wrong here as it correctly 
calculated the benefit due to Mr C. 
The policy schedule confirms the monthly benefit Mr C has selected. And this would have 
been paid as long as that amount was no more than 60% of his earnings. Covea wouldnt 
know how much Mr C was earning and would only receive this information when he made a 
claim and submitted his financial information. At that point, Covea pointed out to Mr C that 
he was over-insured and wouldnt receive the monthly benefit he had selected as his 
earnings werent high enough. 
The policy was sold by a different business. Mr C may wish to consider complaining to the 
business who sold his policy about being over-insured.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman