DRN-3380089
The complaint
Ms R has complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) mis-sold her a fee-paying Platinum 
account, which took place in December 2014.
Ms R says that she never agreed to upgrade her account to a Platinum account. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive use that to help me decide this complaint. And having weighed everything up, on 
balance, I dont think the Platinum account was mis-sold.
Ms R has complained that her account was upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account 
without her consent. TSB has explained that prior to 1 January 2013, accounts could be 
upgraded either in branch, on the phone or online. But after 1 January 2013, it was not 
possible for accounts to be upgraded to a packaged account either in branch or on the 
phone. Therefore, TSB concludes that, because the upgrade took place in December 2014, 
the only way Ms Rs account couldve been upgraded, was if she upgraded the account 
herself online. 
I note that Ms R has said that she didnt have online banking. However, TSB has provided 
evidence that Ms R had previously registered for online banking on 16 December 2011. TSB 
also explained that Ms R didnt need to be registered for online banking to be able to 
upgrade her account online.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the account was changed, TSB now has very limited 
evidence available from when the account upgrade took place. This is not surprising given 
the time scales involved. But I would like to point out that just because TSB no longer has 
evidence from the date of sale, this does not mean that I must uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Instead, when deciding whether the account was mis-sold, I need to consider what I think 
was most likely to have happened based on everything that is available.
Ms R says that she never agreed to the upgrade - which I note was the second packaged 
account that shed held on that same account (which shed downgraded around a year or so 
prior to the upgrade to the Platinum account). Therefore, I think that Ms R was generally 
aware of what a packaged account was in 2014 i.e. an account that incurred a monthly fee in 
return for a range of benefits and that they were able to be removed if not wanted.
I can also see that TSB wrote to Ms R since at least 2018 (and every year since then) 
reminding Ms R of the features on the account and invited her to contact TSB if they were no 
longer suitable or if she didnt want them anymore. And considering Ms R says she didnt 
even know she had a packaged account, I wouldve expected her to query what had 
happened to her account  or at the very least arrange for the packaged account to be 
removed (again) much sooner than she did  if Its the case that shed never agreed to it. 
Furthermore, I note that the Platinum account fee appeared on Ms Rs statements every 
month since January 2015. Again, I think its likely that Ms R wouldve raised her concerns 
much sooner if it was the case that shed never agreed to an account that was costing her 
up to £17 per month. 
I note that Ms R says she did ask for the account to be downgraded in 2019, but she says 
TSB didnt action this. Unfortunately, neither Ms R nor TSB have provided evidence to 
indicate that Ms R had made a request in 2019, and TSB failed to act on it. So based on the 
evidence I have, Im not able to ask TSB to make a refund of the account fees. 
So taking everything into account, on balance Ive not seen enough information to be able to 
say that Ms Rs account was more likely than not upgraded without her consent. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman