DRN-2105848
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have opted to 
repair rather than replace fitted wardrobes that were damaged during a burglary. 
Mr and Mrs A have a loss assessor acting on their behalf in bringing this complaint. But, for 
ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mrs A. 
What happened
Mrs A had a home insurance policy with RSA that provided both building and contents cover. 
Unfortunately, Mrs As home was burgled in February 2018. A safe that had been bolted into 
a range of fitted wardrobes was forcibly removed and this caused damage to the wardrobe 
carcasses.   
Mrs A brought a complaint to this service back in 2019 about RSA declining her claim and 
voiding her policy. One of our investigators resolved the complaint informally in 
October 2019 and RSA agreed to settle the claim, subject to policy limits and less any 
applicable premium adjustments.
So RSA began looking at the claim again in October 2019 and theres a good deal of 
correspondence from both parties in relation to the items being claimed for. In around 
April 2020 RSA and Mrs A agreed to a cash settlement of just over £45,000, which settled 
the majority of her claim. But the question of whether the set of fitted wardrobes that had 
been damaged during the burglary should be repaired or replaced was unresolved.
Mrs A obtained a quote from the company who originally installed the wardrobes around 30 
years before. She said they didnt recommend repairing the wardrobes and provided a quote 
to replace them that amounted to over £7,000. 
RSA obtained a report from a third party contractor who viewed photographs and video 
footage of the wardrobes. The contractor recommended that once Covid restrictions were 
lifted, a specific repair and restoration specialist should be appointed to carry out a repair to 
the wardrobe carcasses. The repair specialist then reviewed the wardrobe damage and said 
he could make an invisible repair, which would be guaranteed. RSA told Mrs A the 
alternative was to issue a cash settlement based on the repair costs of £395 plus VAT. 
Mrs A complained to RSA about its decision to repair the wardrobes. She also complained 
about delays in settling the claim.  
RSA responded to Mrs As complaint. In relation to delays with her claim, it said that 
between October and December 2019, the wrong email address was being used by Mrs As 
loss assessor and this caused delays. It said it made attempts to contact the loss assessor 
during this time. RSA said the first attempt to settle the claim was made on 
9 December 2019. It said matters hadnt moved forward because it was unable to agree on 
the proposed settlement concerning the wardrobes. 
RSA said its repair experts confirmed they should be able to repair the wardrobes to a pre-
loss condition. And if they werent successful with this, RSA would revise the settlement 
based on the up-to-date new for old basis for the damaged wardrobe, with a contribution to 
the undamaged accompanying pieces.
RSA also said its arguable the location and way in which the safe was installed had already 
caused damage to the wardrobe, so the proposed repair isnt an unreasonable request in the 
circumstances. It said the maximum additional settlement payment it would consider if Mrs A 
decides not to allow it to attempt the repair is £474. RSA apologised for the time unavoidably 
taken and said it decided not to deduct the £250 excess.  
RSA made an interim payment to Mrs A in around April 2020 of just over £45,000 in partial 
settlement of claim. 
Mrs A was unhappy with the response from RSA and so complained to this service. She said 
she wants a like for like replacement from the original wardrobe installer and not a patch 
repair. Mrs A also complained about delays by RSA in the handling of her claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. He said the terms and conditions of the 
policy allow RSA to look to try and repair damaged goods. And its only if RSA is unable to 
repair them that it should consider whether to replace them with items of a similar quality. He 
said theres no evidence to suggest the wardrobe is beyond economical repair and, in the 
first instance, RSA should be allowed to try and repair it. Our investigator said there have 
been delays in the claims process, but he didnt think RSA were entirely responsible for 
those and he couldnt see that Mrs A lost out as a result. 
Mrs A did not agree with the outcome. She said the original wardrobe supplier visited her 
home to inspect the damaged wardrobe while RSAs repairer had never been to her home. 
Mrs A said the policy is underwritten on a new for old basis and said if an item cant be 
repaired then its industry practice to provide a replacement from the same supplier, if they 
are still in business. She said she was also concerned that if she accepts a patch repair by a 
third party then the wardrobes will no longer be a product of the original supplier, and this is 
what she paid for in the first place. 
As Mrs A didnt agree with the outcome, this has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
The issue here is that while the majority of Mrs As claim has been settled, RSA and Mrs A 
dont agree about what should be done with the damaged wardrobes. RSA said an invisible 
repair can be carried out by a specialist, while Mrs A believes the wardrobes are beyond 
economical repair and wants them replaced by the business that supplied them around 30 
years ago. Mrs A doesnt think a settlement based on a repair from anybody other than the 
original supplier is fair and is not providing true reinstatement under the policy. 
The terms of Mrs As policy say that where damage can be economically repaired, then RSA 
will pay the cost of the repair. They go on to say that where the damage cannot be 
economically repaired and the damaged or lost item can be replaced, RSA will replace it. If 
an exact replacement is not available, it will be replaced with an item of similar quality. So Im satisfied RSA acted fairly and within the terms of the policy when it looked into whether 
the wardrobe could be repaired in the first instance.  
Ive then looked at the information provided by both RSA and Mrs A to see whether it seems 
likely the wardrobes can be repaired. And, from what Ive seen, I think it was fair for RSA to 
say they can and that a repair should be attempted.   
Mrs A said shes spoken to the original supplier of her wardrobes and they have said the 
wardrobes cant be repaired. From what Ive seen, I believe the supplier didnt provide this 
information in writing and so I dont know precisely why they think this is the case. However, 
its my understanding that the supplier of Mrs As wardrobes only supplies fitted wardrobes 
or carries out repairs under guarantee. They dont, in general, offer a repair service. So I 
would question whether they are the right people to assess whether the wardrobes are 
beyond economical repair. I accept they are wardrobe specialists, but they arent repair 
specialists and so I dont attach too much weight to their assessment of the wardrobes as 
being beyond economical repair.
I also havent seen a written report from the repairers that RSA asked to assess the 
wardrobes. But I can see that RSA has said the business that would carry out the repairs 
has assessed the wardrobes and believes an invisible repair is possible. Im aware the 
repairer didnt visit Mrs As home, because of Covid restrictions, and Mrs A is concerned 
about whether they can properly assess the damage without a visit being carried out. But its 
my understanding that the repairers have seen photographs and video footage and used 
these to carry out their assessment. And as long as the repairer thought the photographs 
and video footage were clear enough to show the extent of the damage, which they clearly 
do, then I dont have any concerns about a remote assessment such as this one. 
Given that the repair specialist considers that an invisible repair can be carried out, Im 
satisfied RSA acted fairly when it told Mrs A this is what it intends to do. RSA is allowed to 
rely on information and advice it receives from experts. And so, at this stage, RSA should be 
allowed to have the repairer carry out repairs to the wardrobe. 
I take on board what Mrs A said about the wardrobes no longer being a product from the 
original supplier if a third party carries out patch repairs. But I cant see that this would place 
Mrs A at a disadvantage, in particular because the wardrobes are no longer under guarantee 
and so third party repairs wont interfere with that. 
I dont intend to make any findings about what the next steps might be if the repairs are 
attempted and are not successful. This is because I havent been provided with enough 
information at this stage to do that. I note that while Mrs A has got a quote for replacement 
wardrobes, RSA hasnt yet done that. And RSA needs to be given the opportunity to do that, 
if it transpires that options beyond repairing the wardrobe need to be looked at.  
Ive also looked at what Mrs A said about delays in the handling of her claim by RSA. But I 
want to make it clear that I am not looking at any matters connected with Mrs As earlier 
complaint to this service, as these two complaints have been dealt with separately by us. 
I can see that there were some delays with getting the claims assessment process started in 
October 2019 and this is because Mrs As claim assessor was using an incorrect email 
address. And so RSA were receiving some but not all of his emails. This was an unfortunate 
start to the claim being looked at, in particular because it was clear Mrs As claims assessor 
was doing all he could to get this matter dealt with quickly. But its not something RSA is 
responsible for.Once that issue was resolved in early November 2019, I think RSA provided Mrs A with an 
outline of settlement details within a reasonable amount of time. Theres no doubt the 
dispute about how to deal with the wardrobes has delayed the claim being settled. But as 
Ive already decided that RSA acted fairly and in line with policy terms when it told Mrs A it 
intended to repair the wardrobe, I dont think it would be fair to say they were to blame for 
resultant delays. And I can see that RSA offered to settle the bulk of Mrs As claim quite 
quickly, so that she was not out of pocket while waiting for the wardrobe dispute to be 
resolved. 
While I think its fair to say there were a few occasions when RSA could have responded 
more quickly to emails, Im satisfied that the £250 already offered by RSA, in the form of not 
deducting the excess from the settlement amount, is enough compensation and so Im not 
asking RSA to take any further action
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman