DRN-3301576
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unreasonably 
refused to provide him with indemnity under his temporary commercial motor policy. 
Mr C is represented by his father. For ease of reference I shall merely refer to Mr C, namely 
the policyholder. 
What happened
Mr C decided to pick up a converted campervan for his friend who had just bought it, from 
another town some considerable distance away, who hadnt yet got his licence. So, he took 
out a weeks temporary cover from Watford to do this, online. Unfortunately, he had a minor 
accident where another drivers car was damaged. That other driver claimed £1,575.00 
vehicle damage and £925.13 car hire charges.
Watford said Mr C failed to disclose this vehicle was modified. Therefore, it refused to 
provide any indemnity for this claim, because the modifications of this vehicle were 
unacceptable. Mr Cs friend had bought a transit van which had been modified into a 
campervan. That meant it was for Mr C to pay the other drivers claim himself.
Mr C complained but Watford wouldnt change its stance. So, Mr C brought his complaint to 
us. The investigator didnt think Watford had done anything wrong. Mr C disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Mr C said he bought this policy online, given his account of going through the application 
form online. What he bought was a temporary commercial motor policy for a week. Given it 
was a commercial motor insurance that is covered by the provisions of the Insurance Act 
2015 and not the provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) 
Act 2012. The Insurance Act 2015 has different duties for both the consumer and the 
insurer. Unlike consumer policies, where it is for the insurer to ask the right questions of the 
consumer, commercial policyholders and indeed applicants have to volunteer information  
they have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a 
policy. This means they have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
Further, the Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably 
have been revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So, the 
policyholder should take reasonable steps to check any information available to them and 
consider if theres anything they ought to disclose. Its a significant burden on an applicant 
too.
Mr C said he couldnt find the right drop down name on the website for the type of van he 
needed cover for as there was no drop down showing converted campervan so he merely 
chose van, being the nearest description. He explained he did note the warning about 
modifications and does say he was nave about assuming the internal modifications he saw 
in the vehicle when he picked it up wouldnt affect his cover. At the time he took out this 
cover, he hadnt seen the vehicle either and he said he didnt own the van, the insurance 
cover was simply to pick it for his friend. He obviously knew nonetheless it was a converted 
campervan. However the Statement of Fact clearly says that Mr C had to declare that the 
vehicle [h]as not been modified from the manufacturers standard specification other than 
with the addition of manufacturers optional extras, Signage, Roof Racks, Ply Lining or 
Interior Storage. 
It is not for me or indeed Mr C to query what risks any insurer wishes to cover or wishes not 
to cover. Insurers are fully entitled to decide this themselves on the basis of their own 
commercial discretion and the varying regulations of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Watford did not want to provide to cover for modified vehicles. Its Statement of Fact clearly 
says that, as it requires the policyholder to declare its not modified. This vehicle was indeed 
modified and not with the manufacturers optional extras either, as it was a converted into a 
campervan from a transit van.
Mr C has said the modifications made no difference or had any bearing on the day to day 
running of the vehicle. But again, that isnt relevant. Neither is the fact that it obviously had 
been previously insured or that it had an MOT and was deemed roadworthy. Watford (and 
indeed any motor insurer) remains fully entitled to refuse to insure whatever it pleases, which 
Watford made clear on the Statement of Fact. And because Mr C took out a commercial 
policy its perfectly acceptable for Watford to rely on the limits of its duties to policyholders as 
detailed in the Insurance Act 2015. It had every right to issue to a certificate of insurance on 
the basis of the information Mr C told it on applying for the policy, and further it had every 
right to only check the vehicle in the event of the subsequent claim.  It has no other duties to 
Mr C, despite Mr Cs thoughts on this matter. 
Also given the declaration requirements on the Statement of Fact, its also not a case that Mr 
C was singled out or treated differently either. Any other applicant had to answer the same 
questions.
Watford has also detailed the application process that Mr C went through online. Which 
details thoroughly in my view, that it was not going to insure modified vehicles. This is 
because Mr C also had to read the following in his application:
Just to check......... The vehicle: ... Has not been modified from the manufacturers 
standard specification, except for the additional of manufacturer optional extras eg. 
Alloy wheels 
He then had to click the box at the bottom of these statements, which says AGREE AND 
CONTINUE.  Why Mr C decided to agree to this when he knew the vehicle was a converted 
campervan is not something I can comment on, but the fact remains that he did, and it 
wasnt true or correct. And why Mr C didnt look for any other provider who did want to cover 
converted campervans, is also something I cant really comment on. Mr C had a duty under 
the Insurance Act of 2015 to give a fair presentation of the risk he was presenting. The fact he had never seen the vehicle which Mr C has highlighted quite strongly to us, is not 
relevant either. The law and indeed the questions asked by Watford require Mr C to simply 
give a fair presentation of the risk. And it was therefore Mr Cs sole responsibility 
consequently to find out about the van and accurately answer the questions asked, so as to 
then give a fair representation of it. 
My role here is merely to assess what if anything did Watford do wrong. It didnt do anything 
wrong in my opinion as it fairly warned that modified vehicles werent an acceptable risk to it. 
In cases like these where the risk is not acceptable to the insurer, the 2015 Act gives the 
insurer remedies as follows:
if it was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy and refuse all 
claims and it doesnt have to return the premiums
if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate or reckless and the insurer 
wouldnt have provided the insurance, it may avoid the contract and refuse 
any claims, but it must return the premiums; (unless the non-disclosure was 
deliberate or reckless)
if the insurer would still have provided the insurance but on different terms 
(other than the premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided 
on those terms; and
if the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it may take a 
proportionate approach to any claims
Watford believes that when a policyholder chooses to agree a very clear declaration which 
isnt correct  that is reckless. Mr C was asked to agree the declaration and he chose to do 
so clearly knowing the van was a converted campervan and consequently obviously 
modified and clearly knowing there was no dropdown description of a converted campervan 
based on his own account. It is for this reason Watford has retained the premium and 
refused to indemnify Mr C for the claim. 
Since Watford would have never insured a converted campervan, as detailed above, it can 
still refuse to indemnify Mr C for the claim, even if I was to consider that Mr C wasnt 
reckless. So, from Mr Cs point of view it doesnt matter (except for Watford retaining the 
premium) whether it was considered reckless or not. However, I do consider Mr C was 
reckless in his answering of the questions asked. I dont see that he was intending to give 
incorrect answers deliberately, but he failed to recognise that quite simply Watford didnt 
want to insure modified vans and moreover he failed to answer questions accurately and 
then wrongly agreed to declarations which were incorrect. I do consider that was reckless, 
sadly. None of this was Watfords fault either, because it was very clear in my view, from the 
questions it required answers to, that it would not be providing any insurance for modified 
vans. 
Lastly, Mr C said Watford had a duty to investigate the other drivers claim and indeed seek 
to minimise that claim. It doesnt however, because it would have never offered any 
insurance to Mr C, had he recognised that he couldnt agree to the declaration required that 
this van wasnt modified. The application then wouldnt have gone through and no policy 
would have been offered by Watford to Mr C in that scenario. So therefore, Watford had no 
duties to Mr C concerning the other drivers claim, because once the full facts were known 
Watford was not insuring Mr C or this van. That is the correct consequences of 
misrepresentation of this nature and this extent. My final decision
I do appreciate and understand that Mr C will be deeply disappointed with my decision. 
However, because Watford didnt do anything wrong, its my final decision that Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman