DRN-1285637
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt process an on-line banking payment 
correctly.  
What happened
On 17 July 2019 Mrs A made an on-line payment to a third party for £475. But the intended 
beneficiary  Mr W, who held his account with another bank (Bank B) told her that the 
money had not be received. So, Mrs A contacted Nationwide to find out what had gone 
wrong.   
Nationwide said that the on-line payment details were set up by Mrs A. And Nationwides 
records show the payment Mrs A authorised was in favour of an account held for a different 
payee  Mr M, whose account was held with another bank (Bank C). So, it says it didnt 
make a mistake. 
But it says that it contacted Bank C on Mrs As behalf to see if the funds could be returned. 
But, while Bank C confirmed receipt of the funds, it said it couldnt return the payment, as by 
this point the account credited with it had been stopped. So, Nationwide wrote to Mrs A to 
explain this and that it couldnt do anything more. But it did also explain the other options 
available to her to try and recover the money through other means.       
Nationwide did accept that there had been some confusion when Mrs A contacted it to 
discuss the matter and a call had been terminated. So, it paid Mrs A £30 compensation - in 
recognition of the inconvenience these service issues had caused her, to her account 
on 6 August 2019. 
Mrs A didnt accept Nationwides response and referred the complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into it. But he didnt think it should be upheld. He said Nationwide 
had made the transfer based on the account details input by Mrs A and these werent the 
account details for Mr W. He also said that hed seen sufficient evidence to show the 
payment had been received by Bank C and that Nationwide had attempted to get the money 
back on Mrs As behalf. So, he didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong in respect 
of processing the payment itself. 
He did acknowledge that Nationwide could have handled Mrs As subsequent enquiries 
better. But he thought the £30 compensation it had paid Mrs A in respect of the service she 
had received was fair in the circumstances.  
Mrs A didnt accept that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong. She said that:
her bank statement shows the beneficiary as being Mr W; 
she had provided a statement for the account of Mr M which didnt show the payment 
being credited to it;Nationwide had told her there had been an error on its part due to an IT glitch, and 
that the payment would be refunded to her; 
the compensation payment was in relation to being cut off in the middle of a 
telephone conversation; and,
she wanted to see the evidence provided by Bank C showing that it had received the 
payment.
 
Our investigator responded acknowledging that Mrs As statement showed the beneficiary as 
Mr W. But he explained that Nationwide had provided evidence to show that the beneficiary 
name had been amended by Mrs A on 19 July 2019, and he thought this explained the 
narrative on Mrs As statement. 
However, he was satisfied that the account details used were those for an account with   
Bank C. And he provided Mrs A with a copy of an email Nationwide had received from Bank 
C confirming receipt of the payment. 
He accepted that Mrs A had originally been told there had been an IT glitch but explained 
this was because Nationwides representative hadnt noticed the amendment to the 
beneficiary name. And he thought this also explained why - in a later call, Mrs A was told the 
payment had been sent to the intended beneficiary. He also acknowledged that Mrs As call 
to Nationwide was terminated mid-call, but he felt this wasnt intentional as the records 
showed the representative attempted to call Mrs A back. 
In light of the above, our investigator didnt recommend that Nationwide needed to take any 
further action in respect of this complaint. Mrs A didnt accept this. She said in summary: the 
email from Bank C didnt prove which account the funds were credited too, she didnt make 
any amendments to the payment, her statements show no record of a payment on 19 July 
only 17 July, and that she still believed there had been a computer glitch.
So, this complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This includes the call recordings between 
Nationwide and Mrs A.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator for broadly 
the same reasons. I know Mrs A will be disappointed as I can see she feels strongly about 
this matter. So, Ill explain why: 
I think its important to set out here that the payment Mrs A made was initiated by on-line 
banking. And on-line banking payments are set up directly by the account holder, so there is 
no human involvement at Nationwides end for this process. This means the payment in this 
case was made using the beneficiary details input by Mrs A and any amendment made to 
those payment instructions can only be amended by her.  
Nationwide has provided a breakdown of the payment made by Mrs A on 17 July 2019. This 
shows the payment details for an account with Bank C and includes a payment reference of 
34936454.  
While I dont doubt that Mrs A intended to pay Mr W £475, Im think she most likely paid 
another beneficiary in her payment list by mistake. When an account holder makes a payment by mistake to the wrong person, Id expect the 
account holding bank - in this case Nationwide, to help the account holder recover the 
payment. This is done on what we call a best endeavours basis. This means Id expect 
Nationwide to contact the bank (Bank C) who received the money and ask for it to contact its 
customer for the funds to be returned. And here I think Nationwide has provided sufficient 
evidence to show that it did this. And that Bank C confirmed receipt of the funds. However, 
Bank C also confirmed the money couldnt be returned as the account credited was no 
longer open. 
I appreciate the email from Bank C doesnt prove which account the payment was credited 
to  for example, it doesnt give the beneficiary name for example. However, it does confirm 
that Bank C received the payment and the same payment reference as recorded on 
Nationwides records was included in the e-mail. So, Im satisfied the payment was received 
by Bank C. And as the payment reference number matches Nationwides records, I think its 
most likely that the account credited was the same account as detailed on Nationwides 
records for the payment. 
I do acknowledge that Mrs A has provided a statement for the account with Bank C - where 
Nationwide says the funds were sent. But the statement provided is a single sheet. And Im 
not persuaded that it covers all the transactions on this account for the period in question. 
And Mrs A hasnt been able to provide further statements when requested. As I dont think 
the statement sheet provided is full statement for the period in question, I cant be sure that a 
payment of £475 wasnt received into this account. 
I also acknowledge that Mrs As Nationwide statement is somewhat confusing as the 
statement shows - on 17 July 2019, the narrative for the £475 says payment to Mr W... 
However, Nationwide has provided evidence which shows that the beneficiary name was 
amended to the payment instructions for Bank C on 19 July 2019. I know Mrs A made the 
payment on 17 July 2019 and not 19 July 2019. But Mrs A statement is dated 5 August 
2019, sometime after the event. So, I think its most likely the statement system would have 
picked up the beneficiary name that was on the system when the statement was produced 
not the date the transaction was undertaken.    
I appreciate that as a result of Bank C being unable to return the funds for the reason given 
above, Mrs A has lost out by £475. But I cant say that this is a result of anything Nationwide 
did wrong. Im satisfied Mrs As on-line payment was processed correctly by Nationwide and 
it tried to help recover the funds on Mrs As behalf. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to 
refund Mrs A £475.   
Nationwide has accepted that there was some confusion when Mrs A contacted it about this 
matter. And I can see that initially Nationwides representative said there had been an IT 
glitch, and that subsequently Mrs A was told the payment had gone to the intended 
beneficiary. While I accept this information wasnt accurate, I think this is most likely due to 
confusion caused as a result of the beneficiary name being changed on 19 July 2019. So, I 
cant say that Nationwide were solely responsible for the mis-information it gave Mrs A.  
Ive also seen that a call was terminated and, in a letter to Mrs A, Nationwide said the 
compensation payment paid was £100. But Nationwide has apologised and explained this 
was incorrect and confirmed the payment was for £30 and that it had been paid to her 
account on 6 August 2019. And Ive also seen that Nationwide did attempt to return the call 
that was terminated. So, like our investigator I dont think the terminating the call was 
intentional. Overall, I think the £30 award paid to Mrs A for the inconvenience the service issues caused 
is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, Im not going to ask Nationwide to pay 
Mrs A any further compensation in respect of this complaint.  
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs A complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman