DRN-3499398
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, irresponsibly provided him with 
credit he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Halifax approved a credit card application for Mr C in March 2019. They initially provided a 
credit limit of £3,500 but in August 2019 they increased the credit limit to £4,250.
Mr C says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Halifax disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file and found he had no arrears, defaults, or County Court 
judgements. They said they didnt see any signs of financial difficulty and that Mr Cs 
declared income and their statistical modelling of his likely expenditure suggested he had 
sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford repayments. And when Halifax increased 
the credit limit they said the picture was similar. There were no signs of financial stress on 
Mr Cs credit file and he had been performing well on his credit card account with them. They 
thought the information suggested the lending was affordable for Mr C.
Our investigator agreed but Mr C didnt and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account opening.
I think Halifax completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file and gathered some information from him about his income and 
circumstances. That information suggested Mr C had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the credit they were offering. There doesnt appear to have been anything on the credit file to 
suggest Mr C was under financial strain and Mr C hasnt provided a copy of his credit file to 
counter that suggestion. So, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when approving the 
initial credit.
August 2019 increase.
I think Halifax completed proportionate checks before approving this credit too. They 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file and considered affordability using the information previously 
provided and statistical modelling of Mr Cs likely expenditure. That showed the credit was 
affordable for Mr C and Halifax were also able to benefit from reviewing Mr Cs performance 
on his account. Mr C had stayed well within the credit limit initially provided and hadnt 
missed any payments. So, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when approving the limit 
increase and overall, I dont think they need to take any additional action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman