DRN-3828971
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy that Metro Bank PLC insisted they needed to pay a mortgage 
valuation fee when the same information was already available in a Homebuyers report. 
Theyre also concerned that the application process took longer than expected.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M applied for a residential mortgage with Metro Bank via a broker, in May 2022. 
They say the broker told them they would get an update from underwriters within seven 
working days but that they didnt receive the mortgage offer until a little over one month later, 
only a few days before entry to the property was planned for.
Mrs and Mr M subsequently complained to Metro Bank. In addition to complaining about the 
need to pay for the lender valuation and the time taken to get to offer, they said theyd never 
even seen the lender valuation report that theyd paid for.
Metro Bank didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that it required a mortgage 
valuation to be carried out on every application, as this is carried out specifically for it as a 
lender in the context of making lending decisions. It said that whilst a survey within a 
Homebuyers report may contain similar information, it is for a different purpose - aimed at 
providing information to potential buyers to help inform their decisions. 
Metro Bank said it didnt automatically provide a copy of its valuation report to borrowers, but 
that it makes them available upon request (and it provided Mrs M and Mr M with access to 
the report for their property). Regarding timescales, Metro Bank explained the steps it had 
taken following the initial contact from Mrs and Mr Ms broker, with timescales. It said it had 
kept in touch with the broker throughout and didnt think that it had caused any delays.  
Mrs and Mr M remained unhappy and referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator here considered the matter and reached an opinion. In summary, 
they said that it was reasonable for Metro Bank to have arranged the mortgage valuation, in 
line with its standard process. They also said they thought it was reasonable for Metro Bank 
to carry out the additional checks to do with the purchase price and loan/property purpose, 
before agreeing to lend. 
Mrs and Mr M disagreed. They said the Homebuyers report was effectively no different to 
the mortgage valuation and should have been used for that purpose. They said the 
Homebuyers report had been introduced in Scotland to prevent multiple valuations being 
conducted. They said they still could not see the need for the second report and as such 
they shouldnt have needed to pay the lenders valuation fee. 
The investigator explained that they thought the reports served different purposes and he 
still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. As the matter couldnt be resolved it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint  for largely the same reasons given by the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
Before I do, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every single 
point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think 
are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep 
in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs and Mr M dont think Metro Bank should have 
required them to pay the mortgage valuation fee, because they believe the same or similar 
information was already available as part of the Homebuyers report. Theyre also unhappy 
at the time taken by Metro Bank to issue the mortgage offer. Ive thought about both of 
these things.
Was it fair for Metro Bank to charge a fee for a separate mortgage valuation?
Mrs and Mr M say Metro Bank shouldnt have required them to pay for a mortgage 
valuation, because the same or similar information was already contained within the 
Homebuyers report. They say the reason the Homebuyers report was introduced in 
Scotland was to prevent the need for multiple surveys to be carried out. 
Metro Bank says that the survey information within a Homebuyers report is intended to be 
for the benefit of potential buyers. Whereas the mortgage valuation that was carried out is 
intended for it as the lender to be satisfied that the property is suitable for the purposes of 
the requested mortgage. It says that it clearly sets out on its web-site that a valuation 
needs to be carried out as part of its standard process and that details of the valuation and 
the associated fee were in the mortgage illustration provided to Mrs and Mr Ms broker. 
I can understand why Mrs and Mr M have said that from their perspective the mortgage 
valuation wasnt necessary, in that they consider there is cross-over and similarity between 
the information contained in it and the information in the Homebuyers report. And that, as 
such, they feel theyve paid for something they consider wasnt necessary. 
However, I dont think it was unfair for Metro Bank to insist that a mortgage valuation be 
carried out. I say this because even if some of the information in the Homebuyers report 
and mortgage valuation is similar, they serve different purposes. A mortgage valuation is 
carried out for the benefit of the lender. It gives the surveyors opinion of the market value 
of the property and helps the lender to decide how much it is prepared to lend against the 
property. Whereas a Homebuyers report contains information that is for the benefit of 
potential buyers.
There is nothing inherently unfair about a lender requiring a mortgage valuation to be 
carried out before it is prepared to make a mortgage offer.
Metro Bank says the mortgage illustration it provided to Mrs and Mr Ms broker contained 
details of the valuation fee. And that it wouldve been for the broker to make sure that 
Mrs and Mr M understood the key elements of the mortgage they were applying for, including important fees and charges. I havent been provided with a copy of the 
illustration, but I dont need to see it as there is no suggestion from Mrs and Mr M that 
Metro Bank didnt make this clear. Rather, the complaint is that the mortgage valuation 
wasnt necessary and they shouldnt be made to pay the fee. 
 
For the reasons given above, I can see no grounds to say that Metro Bank needs to refund 
the mortgage valuation fee to Mrs and Mr M.
The time taken for Metro Bank to issue the mortgage offer
Mrs and Mr M say they were told by their broker that they would hear back from underwriters 
within seven working days but that the mortgage offer wasnt received until much later than 
that. The two issues are linked to the extent that Mrs and Mr M have pointed to Metro Bank 
insisting on a mortgage valuation being carried out  and unnecessary checks that resulted 
from this  as being a key reason why things took so long.
Metro Bank has said it didnt cause any unnecessary delays and that the checks preceding it 
issuing the mortgage offer were necessary.
My earlier findings regarding Metro Banks decision for a mortgage valuation to be carried 
out stand. Its not clear to me where the seven days to hear back from underwriters 
originated from. But regardless, Im satisfied from the timeline of events that Metro Bank 
didnt cause any unnecessary delays. I also find that it was reasonable of Metro Bank to 
carry out the additional checks to do with the purchase price and mortgage purpose, as it is 
reasonable that these factors might affect its decision to lend.
In conclusion, there are no grounds upon which I should uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint about Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman