DRN-3597877
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Curve OS Limited unfairly suspended and closed his account.
What happened
Mr Bs account terms required him to be living and residing within the UK/EEA. But Mr Bs 
account activity indicated he no longer met those terms. Curve asked Mr B evidence of 
residency status, but when he didnt provide the correct documentation it required, it 
provided Mr B with 30-days notice of its intention to close his account.
 
Mr B complained directly to this service and we asked to Curve to provide its response to his 
complaint. But Curve didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr Bs account history 
showed that his transactions over more recent years had all been completed outside the 
UK/EEA. It also said that documentation provided by Mr B indicated hed rented out his UK 
property.  
Mr B acknowledged hed been out of the UK for an extended period. But he explained that 
hed been abroad when restrictions on travel were imposed because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. And he hadnt been able to return to the UK until April 2022 as a result.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs concerns. And she thought the terms of the 
Curve account were clear in that an account holder needed to reside in the UK/EEA to hold 
an account with it. 
She noted that Mr B had made significantly more transactions outside the UK/EEA than he 
had in the UK and had been doing so since before the pandemic. And that Curve had told us 
Mr B had rented out his UK property. So, she didnt think Curve had treated Mr B unfairly. 
Mr B didnt accept this outcome. He pointed out that he had since returned to the UK, but 
Curve hadnt agreed to re-open his account. The investigator contacted Curve about this, but 
it said  at that point, Mr B hadnt raised a formal complaint about the account re-opening 
with it. As such, the investigator explained that she couldnt consider these further points as 
part of this complaint. 
As Mr B didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion at the investigator. I realise Mr B 
will by disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Mr B has mentioned that other service providers havent taken the same action as Curve. 
But Curve is an e-money issuer rather than  for example, a traditional bank. So, the terms 
under which it operates are likely to be different. Here, Im satisfied that Curves terms 
clearly state that to open and operate a Curve account there is a requirement to be a 
UK/EEA resident.
Im sympathetic to Mr Bs situation as I appreciate that he wasnt above to return to the UK 
sooner for reasons beyond his control. But, as a result, he was out of the UK for over two 
years. And Mr B made significantly more outside of the UK/EEA than he did in the UK 
following the account being opened in 2018. And it appears that his property in the UK was 
being rented out. So, Im satisfied that Mr B wasnt meeting the terms of the account. 
Mr B has suggested that Curve has discriminated against him. But Ive not seen anything 
that would make me think Curve was treating Mr B differently to any other customers who no 
longer met the terms of the account.   
Overall, Im satisfied that due to being out of UK for over 2 years, Mr B was no longer 
meeting the terms of the Curve account. And so, it follows that I dont think Curve treated    
Mr B unfairly when it suspended and subsequently closed his account.  
I note Mr B has mentioned concerns about getting the account re-opened  which Curve had 
agreed to consider when he returned to the UK. But Curve has told us that Mr B hadnt  at 
the time this complaint was considered by our investigator, raised a formal complaint about 
this with it. Before this service can consider a complaint, the business complained about 
must be given the opportunity to respond to the complaint. So, these subsequent concerns 
do not form part of this complaint. But Mr B can contact Curve directly about this if this issue 
still hasnt been resolved. And subsequently, he can refer a further complaint to this service 
if he remains dissatisfied with Curves response.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman