DRN-2255358
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain on behalf of their business that I will refer to as H, that Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have refused to pay for alternative accommodation as part of 
their claim on their commercial insurance policy with it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F own a business (H) thats premises are attached to their residential home. 
Between 2008 and 2015 H had commercial property insurance with RSA.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs F noticed cracks in the building and, along with their neighbours, 
brought a claim against the coal authority for mining related subsidence. Over the coming 
years the property was monitored, and some repairs carried out. In 2018 a cash settlement 
was issued from the coal authority.
Mr and Mrs F didnt think the amount issued as part of the settlement was enough to cover 
the repairs to Hs premises, as well as covering the losses incurred to the business. So they 
made a claim on the commercial insurance they had at the time the subsidence was 
discovered. 
RSA accepted the claim and carried out monitoring to check that movement had stopped. It 
then arranged for work to begin on the additional repairs. However in order for the repairs to 
be carried out, Mr and Mrs F would have to move out of their residential property. RSA 
therefore asked them to arrange alternative accommodation. 
Once this was arranged RSA said that it had checked the policy and the cost of the 
alternative accommodation wouldnt covered, as the policy covered the business premises 
only and not the residential one. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. RSA acknowledged the 
complaint but failed to respond within the required time frame. So Mr and Mrs F brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
said that as the repairs couldnt go ahead unless Mr and Mrs F move out of their home, then 
it is fair and reasonable that the cost should be included as part of the repair.
RSA didnt agree with this. It said that there was no cover under the policy for alternative 
accommodation and directed Mr and Mrs F to claim on their personal home insurance for the 
cost instead. RSA asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
It is worth noting that since this time Mr and Mrs F have confirmed that they have been 
unable to claim the cost of alternative accommodation on their home insurance, as the 
insured peril is on the commercial property and not the private residence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has said that Hs policy doesnt provide any cover for alternative accommodation, so it 
isnt liable to pay for this while the repairs take place.
From looking at the policy document, I can see that there is no mention of alternative 
accommodation, so agree that this isnt provided as part of the cover. However, I need to 
decide whether RSA has treated Mr and Mrs F fairly in the circumstances.
When an insurance claim is made, it is for the insured to prove there is an insured peril. And 
it is for the insurer to either accept the claim or show that an exclusion applies. In this case 
RSA has accepted there is a valid claim under the policy. And the policy says that where a 
claim is accepted for damage to the property it will replace or repair the damage. 
Here, RSA has already put together a scope of works based on the repairs needed. And has 
shown that in order to carry out the repairs, Mr and Mrs F will need to move out of their 
residential property. As the repairs are likely to take a number of months, they will need to 
arrange alternative accommodation. 
As RSA has accepted its liable for the repairs, and in order to carry out these repairs it will 
be necessary for Mr and Mrs F to move out, I think it is fair and reasonable that this should 
be considered as part of the cost of the repairs themselves. As it is a cost that needs to be 
paid in order for the repair to take place. It therefore follows that if RSA has accepted liability 
for the repairs it is also liable for the cost of the alternative accommodation, otherwise it 
wont be able to fulfil its obligation under the policy.
RSA has said that as there are policies available that include alternative accommodation, it 
isnt fair that H has the benefit of this kind of cover without paying for it. And it says it sets a 
dangerous precedent. Although I sympathise with this position, I have to consider each 
individual case on its own merits. In this case the repairs cant go ahead without Mr and 
Mrs F moving out. If there was a different barrier to repairs taking place  for example if a 
wall needed to be removed to get access  it would be considered reasonable for the insurer 
to pay to remove the wall in order to carry out the repairs. I therefore think it follows that this 
is also a reasonable cost in order for the necessary repairs to take place. So for that reason I 
think its reasonable for RSA to pay for Mr and Mrs Fs alternative accommodation for the 
duration of the repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay for Mr and 
Mrs Fs alternative accommodation for the duration of the repairs under Hs policy. Costs 
should be based on the quote already provided. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman