DRN-2636768
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint
Miss T complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to 
a scam.
Background
In January 2020 Miss T fell victim to a scam.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all in 
great detail here. But both parties accept that Miss T was contacted by a fraudster 
pretending to be from Barclays, who told Miss T that her money was at risk and tricked her 
into making a payment for £332.68, through her mobile banking, to what she thought was a 
safe account, but was actually an account controlled by the fraudster.  
On 20 January 2020, Miss T received a text message which appeared to have come from 
Barclays. The text message asked Miss T if shed recently made a payment to a hotel chain. 
Miss T replied to the text, to indicate that she had not made a payment. Shortly after this, 
Miss T received another text message asking her if she would like a call back  which Miss T 
replied to saying she would. 
Following this, Miss T received a call from somebody, who claimed to be calling from 
Barclays. Miss T has told us she was taken through security questions and the caller said 
that Miss Ts sort-code and account number had been cloned and that, in order to protect 
her money, she needed to move it to another account. Miss T has also told us the caller was 
aware that she had recently been the victim of another fraud (six weeks earlier Miss T had 
received a genuine text from Barclays, and had spoken to it about an unauthorised 
transaction on her account).  
Miss T has told us that during the call she felt panicked and was convinced she was 
genuinely talking to Barclays. Miss T explained that during the call there was hold music, 
automated messages, the caller was putting pressure on her to make a payment, telling her 
that her account was in danger and she was taken through steps by the caller which felt 
familiar to previous experiences shed had when talking to Barclays. Alongside this Miss T 
has said the caller said she would receive a further call later in the day, and she was given a 
number that she could call if she didnt receive the call-back  Miss T says this added to the 
feeling that she was talking to her bank.
All of this made Miss T feel the caller was genuinely from Barclays and while shes told us 
she was caught off guard, as everything was believable and convincing, and mirrored, to her 
recollection, some of her legitimate dealings with Barclays, she went ahead and made the 
payment. 
After the payment had been made and having had an opportunity to sit and think about 
things, Miss T became unsure about what had happened. So, she called a number the 
fraudster had given her, but the number was unknown. Following this, Miss T called Barclays 
and the scam came to light. 
Barclays tried to recover the funds Miss T had sent, but none remained.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Barclays say one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case and on that basis it didnt think Miss T was entitled to a 
refund under the CRM Code. Barclays considers Miss T ignored a warning and didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment she was making was legitimate.
In support of its decision not to reimburse, Barclays say that Miss T had called it some 
weeks previously following the unauthorised transaction on her account. During that call 
Barclays say its adviser told Miss T she will probably get a call from someone saying they 
are from Barclays sometime in the future. Barclays explained that during this call, the caller 
will mention the previous fraud to convince her it is the bank, but it will be a scam. Barclays 
say that this is what went on to happen and that the warning it provided during this call was 
timely, that Miss T ignored its advice, and didnt carry out enough checks before making the 
payment. 
Miss T brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with Barclays decision not 
to reimburse her. One of our investigators looked into it and found that Miss T had met the 
requirements to be fully reimbursed under the CRM Code, and that Barclays should 
therefore refund her the money shed lost. Barclays disagreed. In summary;
- It re-iterated its advisor had specifically told Miss T that she will probably receive a 
call from someone saying they are from Barclays, mentioning a previous fraud, to 
make her believe it is the bank, but the call will be from a fraudster.
- The call Miss T received from the fraudster was exactly what the advisor said would 
happen, in that someone contacted Miss T claiming to be from Barclays and 
mentioned a previous fraud. 
- Miss T ignored the advice from Barclays and transferred her funds to the scammer 
and it is unsure what more it could have done to protect her.
- It added that Miss T had carried out no due diligence or checks ahead of making the 
payment.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money Miss T 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss T 
lost.
- The money was taken from the consumers current account. It is not clear how the 
consumer would have used the money if Barclays had refunded it when it should have done, so Barclays should also pay interest on the money it should have 
refunded at 8% simple per year, from the date Barclays should have refunded this 
under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about the warnings it gave and whether 
the consumer had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that the 
consumer failed to take the requisite level of care required for the firm to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Barclays hasnt been explicit about whether Miss T ignored an effective warning, though it 
has said she ignored its advice during an earlier call it had with her regarding previous 
fraudulent activity on her account and its said the warning it gave her during this call was 
timely. So, I have thought about whether she ignored an effective warning. Having done so 
Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not met. Ill 
explain why.
Ive listened to the call between Barclays and Miss T, which took place after Miss T fell victim 
to an unauthorised scam. The advisor did say to Miss T that she should look out for a call, 
within the coming weeks, from somebody pretending to be from the bank and who would say 
they know shes had some recent problems with fraud. I accept the advisor also went on to 
say that if Miss T received any calls, that she thought were suspicious, she should call the 
number on the back of her card. 
But I consider that under the CRM Code, whether or not a warning is an effective warning in 
compliance with SF1(2) will depend upon a number of factors:
- The warning must as a minimum meet the UCITS criteria (understandable, clear 
impactful, timely and specific). As these are minimum criteria, it may be necessary for 
the warning to do more than just meet the UCITS requirements to amount to an 
effective warning  it would not be an effective warning if the information provided did 
not give customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded.
- The warning should include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect 
themselves from APP scams and should enable customers to understand what 
actions they need to take to address the risk of APP fraud. That could include 
recommending alternative payment methods offering better protection. It must also 
explain the consequences of not taking those actions.
In all of the circumstances of this case Im not persuaded the warning Barclays provided 
over the telephone when Miss T was previously affected by unauthorised fraud was 
impactful, timely or specific enough in the context of this scam to amount to an effective 
warning. Safe account scams are common, and to be impactful a warning would need to be 
likely, on balance, to break the trust and belief the fraudster has created through social 
engineering. Im not persuaded that its more likely than not the warning Barclays provided 
here would satisfy the requirement to positively affect Miss Ts decision making in the way 
required by the CRM Code. Im also persuaded Miss T acted appropriately notwithstanding 
the warning.
 
I say that because:
- The warning Barclays is referring to was given around six weeks prior to the scam 
taking place, so I dont consider it was timely. It wasnt provided at a point where it 
was most likely to have had an impact on Miss Ts decision making. Im also mindful 
that SF1(2) (b) of the Code says;(b) Where the Firm identifies an APP scam risk, it should provide Effective Warnings 
to customers. This may occur in one or more of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee
(ii) when amending an existing payee; and/or
(iii) during the Payment Journey, including immediately before the Customer 
authorises the payment, before the Customers account is debited.
Considering this Im not persuaded the warning Barclays gave over the phone was given at 
a time that complimented any of the above criteria. 
- The code sets out that Effective Warnings should enable the Customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address the risk, such as more appropriate 
payment methods which may have additional protections, and the consequences of 
not doing so. Im not persuaded the warning Barclays gave here explicitly states Miss 
T may be at risk of losing her money if she followed a callers instruction - or that 
such a payment might be irrevocable and the loss irretrievable.
- The warning was provided against the background of Miss T reporting that some 
funds had been taken without her authority from her account by a fraudster. Miss T 
accepts that a warning was given, but she doesnt remember it as she said she was 
in a panicked state at the time following the unauthorised transactions from her 
account. She was worried about bills she knew she had to pay and was busy thinking 
about how shed come up with the money for her rent. Im persuaded by what Miss T 
has said. During the call, Miss T expresses that with the money gone, shes worried 
about the bills she has to pay. With this in mind, and considering the circumstances 
and the worries she had at the time, I dont think its unreasonable that the warning 
didnt resonate with Miss T at the time, or at the point she made the payment to the 
fraudster. Its clear to me that at the time the warning was provided Miss T was pre-
occupied with the matters in hand.
- Im also mindful the adviser only told Miss T that she might receive a call from 
somebody pretending to be from her bank. It wasnt explained to Miss T that the 
caller may also ask her to move her money, on the pretense that she would need to 
do this to keep it safe. 
In this case Im also satisfied that Barclays has not shown that Miss T lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief because:
- It appears the fraudster used social engineering techniques in order to gain her trust 
 providing Miss T with personal information about her and her accounts that she 
believed only her bank would know. The fraudster knew shed suffered a recent 
fraud, that shed been sent a new card and knew her sort-code. Barclays has said 
there was a 50% chance that a scammer could guess a customer had been the 
victim of a previous fraud, and that a scammer saying this ought not have been 
adequate to persuade Miss T the caller was really calling from her bank. But I dont 
think that it was unreasonable that Miss T didnt think about this at the time. Banks 
are much more aware of the techniques fraudsters use as well as the proportion of 
people whove previously been affected by fraud. In fact, I think what the fraudster 
told her about her having previously been affected by fraud was particularly powerful 
and wouldve quite reasonably persuaded Miss T she was talking to her bank, and 
that her bank was trying to protect her  as it had done just six weeks earlier.
- Alongside this, the hold music and automated messages within the call from the 
fraudster created the feeling that Miss T was genuinely talking to her bank. Given the 
knowledge the fraudster had about Miss Ts personal information and accounts, as 
well as the sense of familiarity Miss T felt during the call, I dont think it was unreasonable for her to believe she was genuinely talking to someone from her bank.
- The fraudster went through security checks with Miss T, which she has explained is 
what she would usually expect from her bank. Which again, I think understandably 
gave Miss T confidence in the legitimacy of the caller. 
- The interactions with the fraudster appear to have mirrored (to Miss Ts recollection) 
those shed experienced just weeks previously. Where Miss T had received a text 
from Barclays, followed by a call to discuss fraudulent transactions on her account. It 
is not uncommon for banks to text and call customers to discuss a transaction in 
order to satisfy itself that a customer isnt at risk of financial harm. So I can see why 
Miss T wouldnt think a call of this nature from her bank was particularly out of the 
ordinary, especially as she had been a victim of a fraud just weeks before and such a 
similar sequence of events, in terms of contact with Barclays, had occurred.
- The fraudster had created an environment of pressure and fear  designed to make 
Miss T comply with their instructions and disrupt her thought process. Fraudsters 
know that fear can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process. It can 
certainly make people take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not 
otherwise take.
- The level of trust installed, combined with the persuasive nature of the caller and the 
urgency of the situation, meant Miss T felt compelled to act and reasonably believed 
she was doing the right thing in protecting her money
- I have also thought about the warning Barclays gave to Miss T when she reported 
the fraud six weeks earlier in considering whether Miss T ought reasonably to have 
questioned what was happening to her more carefully. But as I have already 
explained, Im persuaded the warning didnt resonate with Miss T at the time, as she 
was distracted by what had happened and the financial loss shed incurred. So I think 
in the particular circumstances, it was understandable Miss T didnt reconcile what 
was happening, with what Barclays had previously told her could happen.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Barclays has been able to establish that 
when Miss T sent the payment, she did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Overall, I am persuaded that Miss T did meet her requisite level of care and I dont believe 
Barclays has established it was able to choose not to refund her under the Code. In the 
circumstances I think it ought to have fully refunded Miss T under the provisions of the CRM 
Code and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss now.
Putting things right 
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that Barclays Bank Plc;
- refunds the £332.68 Miss T lost and;
- pay 8% simple interest from the date Barclays decided not to refund her under the 
Code until the date the funds are returned. 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint against 
Barclays Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Bintu Murad
Ombudsman