DRN-3553189
The complaint
Mr S complains through his representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money lent him money on high cost loans which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr S with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount* Term Instalments* Date repaid
Loan 1 7/2/2019 £1,500 24 months £108 By loan 2
Loan 2 14/8/2019 £1,982 24 months £144 By loan 3
Loan 3 6/3/2020 £2,640 24 months £187 Outstanding
*figures rounded up
Mr S paid the monthly instalments for the first two loans on time, but struggled to repay 
loan 3, missing several payments. He complained through his representative to 118 118 
Money that it shouldnt have lent him the money as the loans were unaffordable to him.
118 118 Money says it carried out all necessary verification checks and assessed that the 
loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator reviewed the loans, and with regard to loan 1 said that 118 118 Money did 
proportionate checks and on the basis of the information it obtained, he couldnt see that 118 
118 Money was wrong to lend the money. With regard to loans 2 and 3, he said 118 118 
Money could have asked Mr S for more information, and that normally, wed consider this 
information to see whether 118 118 Money wouldve found anything concerning which might 
have affected its decision to lend. However, he pointed out that neither Mr S nor his 
representative had sent us this information  so he was unable to determine what 118 118 
Money wouldve seen had it conducted further checks.
Mr Ss representative didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan1
The credit report check carried out by 118 118 Money revealed that Mr S had three 
outstanding loans, a hire purchase loan, and a mail order account. His bank account was 
also overdrawn, by £227. However he was living at home with his parents and had relatively 
modest outgoings. His credit commitments, with the new loan instalment included would 
have amounted to about 26% of his assessed monthly income of £1,811.  By my 
calculations his monthly disposable income after taking account of his credit commitments 
and his regular outgoings would have been about £835. 
I think in respect of this loan, that 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks, and the 
result of these checks showed the loan to be affordable.
loan 2
This loan paid off the balance of loan 1, with Mr S receiving a cash payment of £700. 
According to the credit report check for this loan, by the time Mr S applied for it, six months after the first loan, he had taken another loan, and two credit cards which were respectively 
on or very near their £500 and £200 limits. His bank overdraft had increased to £1,647. I 
havent seen any updated check of his income and outgoings for this loan on 118 118 
Moneys file, so I will assume they remained the same. At least I have no information to 
show otherwise. His credit commitments after paying off loan 1 and adding the monthly 
payment for loan 2 would have been over 47% of his income. Although he would still have 
had a disposable income of around £500.
So there clearly was a concern that Mr S was getting deeper into debt, which 118 118 
Money should have investigated further. But, despite our adjudicator inviting Mr Ss 
representative to provide more information, they have not done so, and merely requested an 
ombudsmans decision. My view is that it might have been possible to see why Mr S was 
getting into further debt by e.g. checking his bank statements or information as to his 
income. Regrettably, without that information Im unable to say whether or not this loan 
should have been granted. So I cant uphold the complaint about this loan.
loan 3
Again this loan was used to pay off the previous loan, Mr S receiving the balance of £900. 
Mr Ss situation was much the same as for loan 2. If anything it had slightly improved as one 
loan was now paid off. And, assuming his income and outgoings remained the same (I have 
no information to show otherwise) he would have had a monthly disposable income of 
around £560.
I appreciate that figure might have been shown to be different if 118 118 Money had carried 
out more checks, but again I havent seen any information from Mr S or his representatives 
which might have shown that. So again Im unable to uphold the complaint about this loan.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman