DRN-3296000
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc blocked incoming payments into his account between 
July 2019 and August 2020. He would like substantial compensation for not being able to 
access his funds when needed.
What happened
Mr K had an account with Santander.
Mr K has said that Santander blocked payments made to his account under instructions from 
an international police force who Mr K says are trying to entrap him. 
Mr K was concerned that Santander sent one-time passcode (OTP) and emails following the 
blocks on Mr Ks account. Mr K believes this was done under instruction so the police could 
find out Mr Ks location. 
Mr K has said that the blocks on his account made things very difficult as he was travelling 
abroad.
Mr K raised a complaint with Santander who confirmed there had been no bank error. 
Mr K complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
Santander had carried out reviews of payments into Mr Ks account to comply with its 
regulatory obligations. He hadnt seen any delays in the way Santander had investigated 
these payments. He also thought that sending OTP and emails was a standard way for 
Santander to ensure security of a customers account and communicate with customers, so 
he didnt think Santander had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed with the view he thought that Santander wouldnt admit to their involvement. 
He said he would provide our service with further evidence.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite Mr K saying he would provide further evidence he hasnt done so. Therefore, I have 
made my decision based on the evidence already provided by Mr K and Santander.
The investigator has set out that Santander has legal and regulatory obligations it must 
comply with. These obligations mean that on occasion the bank will review payments into an 
account and in order to do so it must block the account temporarily.
These measures are put in place in order to safeguard the customers accounts and to 
ensure Santander complies with these legal and regulatory obligations.
Santander has to have in place security measures and procedures in order to try to 
safeguard its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. And its not for this service to interfere with these processes. Thats a matter for 
Santander.
I have looked at the evidence provided in this case and Im satisfied that the checks on the 
payments were carried out to comply with these obligations. Im also satisfied that there 
were no delays in carrying out these reviews. So, although Im in no doubt that these blocks 
caused Mr K inconvenience and distress as he has told us, I cant say that Santander have 
acted unfairly when they reviewed the payments into Mr Ks account.
Mr K has also mentioned that Santander tried to entrap him into giving away his location by 
requiring him to turn on his phone to respond to OTP and emails. I have reviewed 
Santanders use of emails and OTP in this case and I cant agree that Santander have been 
unreasonable when they used OTPs and emails. I appreciate that Mr K would prefer not to 
receive communications from Santander in this way. But I leave it to Mr K to liaise with 
Santander to see if this is possible.
In summary, I realise that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Mr K has been treated unfairly and I wont be asking them to do 
anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman