DRN-4183491
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in 
connection with his credit card
What happened
Our investigator considered the complaint Mr M made to this service, but didnt think it 
should be upheld. Mr M did not agree with that view and he said the correct complaint had 
not been considered by the investigator.
Clarity was sought from Mr M about what his complaint was. However, no further information 
was forthcoming. The matter was then referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a Directions Notice in which I required Mr M to clarify his complaint. In the light of his 
reply, I have summarised his complaint grounds as follows:
RBS required Mr M to pay more than his contractual minimum repayment towards his 
credit card;
Mr M received several automated calls from RBS after he had agreed a resolution 
with the bank. Mr M did not think he should have received these calls;
RBS did not tell Mr M that it had stopped his credit card and he was unable to pay for 
groceries;
RBS tried to prevent Mr M from escalating his complaint and that the complaint 
handler was unable to effectively communicate with other RBS departments due to 
the organisational structure of the business. RBS had also told its employees not to 
deal with Mr M.
I issued a provisional decision in this matter. In that decision, I said: 
As things stand, I dont intend to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
At the outset, I need to clarify the role of this service. We do not regulate financial 
businesses, so we are not able to tell a financial business how to structure its 
organisation or how to run its day to day operations. Rather, we are an informal 
dispute resolution service.
So, we can look at individual complaints and recommend what we consider to be a 
fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of a complaint.
The contractual minimum repayments
It looks as though Mr M contacted RBS by telephone on 25 February 2022 to 
complain that his minimum payment for his credit card had increased.
I have been provided with copies of Mr Ms credit card statements. I can see that the 
minimum repayment for his account that month was £44.60. His credit limit was £500 
and his outstanding balance at that time was £504.06.
RBS calculates the minimum payment for a credit card each month depending on a 
number of criteria. Mr Ms credit card statements show that his minimum payment will 
be the greater of:
(i) £5 or the full balance if less.
(ii) that month's interest, any default charges and that months instalment plan 
fee(s), 1/12th of any annual fee and 1% of the remaining balance
(iii) the excess over Mr Ms credit limit after deducting any overdue amounts 
from previous statements. RBS will limit each overdue amount to the greater 
of (i) or (ii) above.
So, taking the statement dated 24 February 2022 as an example, RBS calculated Mr 
Ms minimum payment as £44.60. Mr M had not made a payment in the preceding 
month, so £31.90 was outstanding and formed part of the minimum payment that 
month. Mr M would have also had to pay that months interest of £7.73, along with 
1% of the outstanding balance. Looking at these figures and the statements more 
generally, I dont think RBS required him to pay more than the contractual minimum 
repayment. In addition to that, I can see the minimum amount to pay was clearly set 
out on each statement.
The automated telephone calls
Mr M complained that RBS made a number of automated calls to his mobile phone. I 
asked RBS to provide us with a breakdown of the calls that had been made to Mr M 
in that regard.
Looking at the call log that has been sent to us, I can see RBS made some calls to 
Mr M in 2021. However, it doesnt look as though contact was made with him at that 
time. RBSs records show that the calls were invalid, and I can see there appears to 
be an error with the number of digits recorded on Mr Ms telephone number then.
I can see that some calls were made to Mr M in March 2022, July 2022 and August 
2022. I dont think the number of calls to Mr M was excessive. Mr M appears to have 
been behind with his repayments and so I cant say it was unreasonable for RBS to 
try and contact him during that time.
Mr M says that the automated calls continued when he had made a repayment plan 
with RBS. Whilst I dont doubt that this is what Mr M honestly recalls, it doesnt look 
as though a repayment plan was set up until 10 August 2022. The evidence Ive seen 
doesnt suggest any automated calls were made after that date.
Card declining
On 15 May 2022, Mr M contacted RBS to say that he had tried to pay for shopping 
and his card had been declined. He said that he was unable to pay his rent the next 
day because he had to use the funds on shopping that he had earmarked for his 
rental payments. His card had expired, but he had not realised.In response, RBS said Mr Ms card had expired in April 2022, but a new card had not 
been issued. This was because Mr M no longer met its lending criteria. RBS said it 
had notified Mr M about this, but it accepted he may not have received that letter. 
RBS offered to pay £114.86 to Mr M to cover the cost of his calls and seemingly the 
shortfall in his rental payments that hed transferred from another account.
As I said, RBS decided not to issue a new card to Mr M because he did not meet the 
lending criteria. This was a commercial decision made by RBS. This service cannot 
tell RBS what its lending criteria should be, nor can I compel RBS to issue a new 
card to Mr M in these circumstances.
Whilst I accept that Mr M may not have received correspondence from RBS stating 
that it was not issuing another credit card, it seems to me most likely that the expiry 
date would have been printed on the front of the card. So, it would have been 
reasonable for Mr M to have realised the card had expired and could not be used 
when he went to pay for items in the shop.
Mr M said if he had known his card had expired, he wouldnt have paid money into 
his credit card account if hed known he couldnt get it back. In any event, RBS 
refunded £114.86 to Mr M as compensation in this regard, which is more than Mr M 
he had paid as a minimum repayment in the preceding month. On that basis, I cannot 
reasonably say Mr M has lost out here.
RBS complaints procedure
Mr M says he was told that RBS did not have a complaints procedure and that it had 
tried to prevent him escalating his complaints.
However, in considering this file in some detail, I can see Mr M has made numerous 
complaints to RBS over the past few years. He has been paid compensation on 
several occasions and many late payment fees have been refunded to his account. It 
also appears that new complaints may have been made to RBS after Mr M 
complained to this service.
As I said, this service does not regulate financial businesses. So I cannot tell RBS 
what its complaints process should be or how it should structure its business. I am 
satisfied that Mr Ms disputes have all been considered by RBS and he has been 
given referral rights to this service. Even if RBS did tell Mr M that it did not have a 
complaints process, I cannot see how Mr M has lost out in that regard  because 
RBS has considered his complaints and paid compensation and reduced his fees 
several times. I have not seen anything to suggest RBS tried to stop Mr M from 
bringing his complaints.
Mr M says an RBS staff member said they had been told not to deal with him 
anymore. Again, I accept that this is what Mr M genuinely recalls about the 
conversation he had at the time. However, in all the evidence Ive seen in this case, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that RBS did give this instruction to its staff. And RBS 
has continued to correspond with Mr M after this allegation was made, including 
considering a new complaint. I think that would have been unlikely if RBS staff had 
been instructed not to deal with Mr M. So even if a staff member did say theyd been 
given that instruction, I cannot see how Mr M has lost out because of that.
With all of this in mind, for all the reasons set out above, I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint. I dont intend to tell RBS to take any further action in this matter.I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision before 31 May 2023. 
RBS said it had received the provisional decision but had nothing further to add. 
On 22 May 2023, Mr M emailed our investigator to say that he would not be able to reply to 
the provisional decision before the deadline because he would be offline for two weeks. I 
agreed to extend the response deadline to 7 June 2023. No response was received by that 
date. Our investigator emailed Mr M and said that we would extend the deadline further until 
10am on 12 June 2023. No response was received by this time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether it is fair for me to issue this decision without a 
response from Mr M. I know Mr M was aware of the deadline to reply because he emailed 
our investigator on 22 May 2023 to say hed be offline for two weeks. I can see he was in 
touch with our service on 30 May 2023 about something else. I have extended the deadline 
for a response on two occasions, but we have not heard anything further from Mr M. With all 
of this in mind, I am satisfied there has been sufficient time for Mr M to respond to my 
provisional decision and it is now fair for me to proceed with this final decision. 
On that basis, as neither party has provided me with any further information or evidence to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. RBS is not required to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman