DRN-3012706
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr F. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. Bank of Scotland sold 
Mr F the policy when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I have seen the postal application form that Mr F filled in and signed. I can see that there is a 
tick in the box applying for PPI. So it seems likely Mr F wanted to apply for PPI and was 
aware he had a choice  even though its not surprising, more than 24 years later, that he 
doesnt now remember this. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Fs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. But it 
did have to give him enough information to make an informed choice. 
The information on the form wasnt as full as it should have been, and I cant now know 
whether other information was given  such as in a leaflet. 
So Ive though about whether, even with full information, its likely Mr F would have changed 
his mind about applying for PPI. But I cant say it was likely. He was eligible to make a claim 
if the need arose. And the PPI would have paid out on top of any work sick pay or 
redundancy pay, and could have made Mr F more financially secure if he lost earnings due 
to long-term sickness or redundancy. Hes told us he didnt have savings to fall back on  
and even if he did, the PPI would have put off the time hed need to use those. And it doesnt 
look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
So I dont think fuller information would have made the PPI seem any less useful. 
Overall, Ive not found a reason to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman