DRN-3415991
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the service received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
when she asked it to cancel a direct debit instruction on her current account.
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs J noticed a direct debit instruction set up on her account by a company 
Ill refer to as E. Mrs J emailed Halifax using a complaints-related email address and asked 
for the direct debit to be cancelled. Mrs J says she didnt get a response from Halifax, so 
emailed it again several times. She ultimately made a complaint.
In November 2020, Halifax wrote to Mrs J addressing her complaint and apologised for the 
delay in responding to her. It confirmed it had cancelled the direct debit, but it also 
recommended that Mrs J contacted E to ensure it was also cancelled from Es perspective. 
As the payment  which was for £12.73  had since left the account, Halifax explained how 
Mrs J could go about disputing this if she wanted to. It apologised for the service it had 
provided and offered Mrs J £25 compensation.
Mrs J thought that if Halifax had acted on her request sooner, the payment wouldve been 
stopped before it left the account and she wouldnt be further inconvenienced by having to 
raise a dispute. So, in December 2020, she asked if it would increase its offer to £50 in light 
of the inconvenience.
In a letter dated December 2020, Halifax explained that it had received an increase in 
complaints due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which was why there was a delay processing the 
direct debit cancellation. However, it ultimately agreed to increase its offer to £50 and paid 
this in December 2020.
Mrs J remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She said there was a 
further delay in Halifaxs response. She said she continued to email but she didnt receive 
any correspondence from Halifax in the months that followed her initial complaint  including 
its letter from December 2020. In the months that followed, Halifax paid Mrs J an additional 
£50 compensation for the further distress and inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt recommend that Mrs Js complaint be 
upheld. He acknowledged that the Covid-19 pandemic meant there was a delay in Halifax 
responding to correspondence from its customers. He thought Halifax had suggested other 
ways Mrs J could contact it. And, whilst he accepted it had been a difficult time for Mrs J, he 
thought the level of compensation offered was fair. In further correspondence sent, our 
investigator said he thought Halifax had acted fairly by acknowledging the issues Mrs J 
raised and offering compensation. And, he said Halifax had explained how to raise a dispute 
about the payment.
Halifax didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mrs J did. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case has been passed to me to review afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
Mrs J wanted to cancel the direct debit instruction on the account. Rather than pursue this 
through the usual channels, Mrs J instead emailed a complaints-related email address. This 
meant that her request to cancel the direct debit didnt get picked up by Halifax in the way it 
usually would. 
However, that being said, I still think Halifax could have dealt with the overall matter more 
quickly for Mrs J. In its response to Mrs Js complaint, Halifax apologised for the service she 
had received, acknowledged the overall delays caused and already paid Mrs J £100 
compensation in total for these matters. So, it seems Halifax doesnt dispute things could 
have gone better. 
In the overall circumstances of what happened, whilst I dont doubt the matter wouldve been 
frustrating for Mrs J, I think Halifaxs offer of compensation is enough to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered.
If Mrs J wants to dispute the payment that did leave the account, she can do so by raising a 
direct debit indemnity claim. As I understand it, Halifax provided details about how Mrs J 
could go about doing this and offered to facilitate this discussion. I think that was reasonable 
for it to do. So, overall, I dont think Halifax needs to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I think Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax doesnt need to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman