The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) unfairly turned down their claim for the full cancellation cost of 
their holiday. 
Mr M brings this complaint on behalf of himself and Mrs M, so for ease I will refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr M. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M booked a cruise holiday in February 2018 and paid a deposit. 
In July 2018, Mr M visited his GP after injuring one of his Achilles tendons. The GP told Mr M 
he thought the injury wasnt serious and Mr M would be able to go on his holiday booked for 
November 2018. 
The balance of Mr and Mrs Ms holiday became due and they paid this on 18 August 2018.
Mr M said he was limping and experiencing constant pain due to the injury to his tendon. He 
was referred to an orthopaedic surgeon who advised Mr M was still in the rehabilitation 
phase of his injury. And he recommended against Mr M going ahead with his holiday, 
because it involved a lot of walking and hiking. 
Following the medical advice he received, Mr M cancelled his holiday in October 2018. And 
he made a cancellation claim against his travel insurance policy, for the total cost of his 
holiday. 
Mapfre settled the claim, agreeing to pay the cost of Mr Ms deposit only, and deducting the 
applicable excesses. It said it had done so for two reasons. Firstly because Mr M had not 
informed Mapfre of the injury to his tendon. And also because Mr M hadnt attended a 
medical screening with Mapfre in the week before he was due to pay the balance of his 
holiday. 
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Mapfre had 
done anything wrong. She said she thought Mr M had needed to tell Mapfre about the 
changes to his circumstances, and she said he hadnt completed the second medical 
screening required by his policy. And because of this she said she thought Mapfres 
settlement offer to cover the loss of the deposit only was fair. 
DRN-1741046Mapfre didnt respond to the investigators view. 
Mr M disagreed with the view, and in summary, he made the following points:
the injury to his tendon is not a medical condition, so he disagrees he needed to tell 
Mapfre;
Mr Ms GP did not foresee any reason he would not be able to go on holiday, so its 
unreasonable to expect Mr M should have been able to foresee this;
Mapfre didnt arrange a medical screening before Mr M paid the balance of his 
holiday and he thinks it was Mapfres responsibility to do so; and
if a second screening had taken place, no medical condition would have been found.
 
Mr M asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman, so its now for me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Ive reached the 
same outcome as the investigator, and for broadly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms initial injury to his tendon 
Im aware Mr M feels strongly that the injury to his tendon was not a medical condition, so he 
said he thought he didnt need to tell Mapfre about it. And his GP advised him the injury 
would be cleared up before his holiday. I accept Mr M couldnt have foreseen a need to 
cancel his holiday, based on the original advice he received from his GP. However the 
important factor for me to consider is not whether or not Mr M knew his injury would prevent 
him from travelling, but what Mr M was required to tell his insurer about the injury. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant terms of Mr Ms policy. The policy defines the term 
change in medical conditions as follows. 
Change in medical conditions: Change(s) in medical condition(s) means:
 a change to your treatment or prescribed medication, which can include a change in 
dosage which may be an increase or decrease in the amount of medication that you 
take, or
 new symptoms or medical conditions which may or may not yet have been 
diagnosed, or
 if you are waiting for tests or test results
 any changes to your health which you are aware of and for which you may need to 
seek professional medical advice
Based on the policy definition of a change in medical condition, Im satisfied the injury Mr M 
sustained to his tendon was a change to his health which he was aware of, and he sought 
professional medical advice for it. 
The section of Mr Ms policy headed Changes in your Circumstances After Buying this 
Policy states the following. If there are any changes in the medical conditions mentioned under Pre-existing 
Medical Conditions above or new ones arise after you have bought this policy and 
before you book or go on the cruise, you must tell International Medical Screening as 
soon as possible.
I think the policy term here is clear in that Mr M was required to tell Mapfre as soon as 
possible, about any new medical condition. Mr M first saw his GP in July 2018 about the 
injury to his tendon. But he didnt tell Mapfre about this until October 2018, after hed 
received advice from an orthopaedic surgeon that he shouldnt go on his holiday. 
If Mr M had told Mapfre about his injured tendon soon after he found out, Mapfre said it 
would most likely have been unable to continue providing cover. And it said it would have 
paid the cost of Mr and Mrs M cancelling their holiday, which at that time, would have been 
the deposit only. And because of this, I think its fair and reasonable that Mapfre agreed to 
pay the amount of the deposit (less applicable excesses) to settle the claim. 
The second medical screening 
Mr M said he thinks no medical condition would have been found if he had completed the 
second medical screening with Mapfre. However, as Ive already explained, Im satisfied Mr 
Ms injury to his tendon falls within his policys definition of a change in medical condition. 
Mr M saw his GP about his injury in July 2018, and paid his holiday balance the following 
month. So I think Mr M would have needed to tell Mapfre about the injury during his second 
medical screening, had this taken place.  
Mr Ms policy states the following under the pre-existing medical conditions section. 
You are required to complete a second medical screening a week before you pay the 
final balance for your cruise. Failure to complete this second screening may leave you 
without cover.
I think this wording is clear in terms of the requirement for the second screening and when it 
must take place. I also think this information was prominent within the terms and conditions 
of the policy, as it appears within a highlighted box on page two. Above this box, the 
telephone number and opening hours of Mapfres medical screening helpline are provided. 
Mr M has said Mapfre didnt contact him to arrange a medical screening the week before he 
paid his holiday balance. And he said he thought it was Mapfres responsibility to do this. Ive 
considered this, however I think it would be unreasonable to expect that Mapfre would be 
aware and would keep track of when every policyholder needs to pay the balance of their 
holiday. The contact details for the medical screening helpline were provided in the policy, 
next to the explanation of the requirement for the second screening. And as Ive said, I think 
this information was displayed prominently within the terms and conditions. Because of this 
Im persuaded that Mapfre made it sufficiently clear that Mr M needed make contact to 
complete a second screening the week before his holiday balance payment was due. 
Even if I didnt think Mapfre had made the requirement for the second medical screening 
clear, I still wouldnt be persuaded that this complaint should be upheld. I say that because, 
as Ive demonstrated above, the terms of the policy required Mr M to tell Mapfre as soon as 
possible about any change in medical conditions. He was aware of the injury after visiting 
his GP on 18 July 2018, but didnt tell Mapfre about this until October 2018 when he needed 
to cancel his holiday.
My final decisionIm aware that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
has made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs M £6,350.00 in settlement of their claim. I conclude 
that this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. should pay Mr and Mrs 
M £6,350.00 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman