DRN-3517885
The complaint
Company W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent them losing out 
financially as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. 
Briefly, as I understand it, an invoice raised by Ws supplier was intercepted by a fraudster 
who amended the payment details on the invoice. This was the first time W was making a 
payment to that supplier and it had no reason to doubt the accuracy of the payment details. 
It went ahead and made the payment.  
The scam came to light a few days later when the genuine supplier contacted W for their 
payment. W immediately contacted their bank who in turn contacted HSBC, but the funds 
had already been transferred out of the recipients account.
W says that HSBC allowed a fraudster to open an account without due provenance and 
didnt do anything when its funds meant for another company were received into the 
account.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it could not be upheld. 
In relation to the complaint about account opening they said: 
Our service is unable to consider Ws complaint that HSBC failed to carry out due 
diligence when the account was opened. This is because W is a small business 
according to our rules and we are able to consider a complaint from a small business if 
the event being complained about happened on or after 1 April 2019. In this instance as 
the event being complained about - the account opening  happened prior to 1 April 
2019, we are unable to consider this part of Ws complaint. 
Further, in this instance, HSBC is the payment service provider for the recipient, not for 
W. As such W isnt a customer of the bank. Still, in certain circumstances the sender of 
funds (where theyve been the victim of an authorised push payment scam) would be 
able to complain to us about the actions of the bank that received the money.
However, this provision only covers any act or omission that happened on or after 31 
January 2019. Again, as the beneficiary account was opened in 2018, this provision also 
means that unfortunately we wouldnt be able to consider Ws complaint about the 
account opening.
The investigator however confirmed that we are able to consider Ws complaint that the 
bank failed to act when their funds came into the fraudsters account, as that happened 
after 1 April 2019. But having considered it, they concluded that there was no error or 
omission on part of HSBC in relation to that.  
W did not agree. They said that it was wrong on the part of HSBC to accept a payment 
specifically meant for a particular payee and pay it into the account of an entirely different 
person. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that we are unable to consider Ws complaint concerning the 
account opening for the reasons they have explained. We can however consider whether 
there was any error or omission on part of HSBC when Ws payment came into the 
beneficiarys account. 
The director of W strongly feels that when the payment came in, HSBC ought to have 
checked the name of the recipient against the intended payees name. Had the bank done 
so it would have seen the mismatch in the names and the fraud would have come to light 
straightaway thereby preventing the loss to W.
I can understand why the director feels so. However, as explained by the investigator, whilst 
the payment instruction may have included the name of the intended payee, the unique 
identifiers were sort code and the account number. So, the payment would automatically be 
received into the account so long as those details were correct, which was the case here. 
In 2020, the Payment Systems Regulator, who are the regulator for the payment systems 
industry in the UK introduced a system called Confirmation of Payee (CoP). This
provides for the checking - by the payers bank - of the recipients name against the intended
payee in certain circumstances. However, the CoP was not in place at the time this 
transaction happened.
I have also reviewed the recipients account activities to see if there was anything unusual 
that HSBC ought to have acted upon and whether that would have prevented the loss to W. 
The bank has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I am 
limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party account. 
But Id like to assure that I have carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision.
I see that the recipients account was a busy account with several incoming and outgoing 
payments, including high value ones. Ws payment was higher than usually incoming 
payments, but I dont think that in itself ought to have raised a concern to HSBC, as 
occasionally higher than usual payments could be received into an account. 
The outgoings following the receipt of Ws payment were broadly in line with the account 
activities. As such, I dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where Id 
have expected it to have intervened. So again, I cant fairly conclude that HSBC missed an 
opportunity here to prevent Ws loss.
HSBC blocked the account as soon as it was notified of the fraud but unfortunately by that 
time not much remained in the account. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint W. But I can only make an award against HSBC if I consider 
that it has done something wrong which has led to Ws loss. In this case, from what Ive seen there hasnt been a failing by HSBC which has resulted in Ws loss. As such I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask it to refund Ws loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman