DRN-2136032
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy TSB Bank plc wont remove late payment markers its recorded on his credit 
file.
What happened
In early November 2018, Mr S raised a complaint with TSB about charges on his current 
account. He had an arranged overdraft on this account for £2,000. At the time of the 
complaint this was a Platinum account, so Mr S was required to pay a monthly fee for the 
account as well as a fee for the overdraft, and interest on the amount overdrawn. Part of this 
complaint was that in June 2018, when Mr S had called TSB to notify it of his new address, 
hed also requested his account be downgraded to a free Classic account. Mr S says he 
chased TSB about this complaint into 2019, but he didnt review his account again until late 
2019.
In December 2019, Mr S received contact from a debt recovery agency in relation to this 
current account. He contacted TSB about this debt and raised a complaint, as he hadnt 
received any notification about arrears on the account. At this time Mr S checked his credit 
file and saw the current account had been defaulted. He also said he still hadnt received a 
response to his November 2018 complaint.
TSB looked into Mr Ss complaint and saw an error had been made when his address was 
updated. As a result of this, it accepted he hadnt received the required letters in relation to 
the default, so it agreed to remove this from his file and took the debt back from the recovery 
agency. It however didnt agree to remove the late payment markers it had also registered 
with the credit reference agencies. It said Mr S had left the account in its overdraft and not 
made any payments towards it in over a year, so these were fairly applied.
Mr S disagreed as he said he left the account within the overdraft limit and the charges that 
caused it to go over this were being disputed (Platinum account fees). He said he never had 
the opportunity to rectify the account, as TSB sent all the correspondence about the arrears 
to the wrong address. Mr S wanted the late payments markers removed back to November 
2018, when he first complained. TSB didnt change its position, so Mr S came to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She felt the markers were fairly applied, as 
she said Mr S shouldve realised the account would go further overdrawn. Mr S said that he 
was affected by online banking issues with TSB in 2018, so this prevented him from viewing 
his account online, so he didnt have access to this information. He said TSB had led him to 
believe the account was frozen whilst the complaint was investigated. And he argued that 
the legislation around Notices meant that TSB couldnt apply these markers without telling 
him. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has argued that the amounts that caused his account to go overdrawn were amounts 
that were in dispute with TSB. However on review of his statements, I cant agree that this is 
entirely true. 
Mr S has told us he had requested his account be downgraded, but TSB had failed to do 
this. Even if I was to accept this was the case, he was still required (under the terms of the 
account he says he requested) to pay both interest and a fee for having an arranged 
overdraft. And from the information available, the interest rate he was charged wouldve 
been the same for both types of account. I do note there was no monthly fee for the account 
he says he requested, but the interest-free overdraft amount was also much less  meaning 
he wouldve paid more interest on the amount he was overdrawn, within his arranged 
overdraft.
On reviewing Mr Ss statements, he last spent on the account on 28 November 2018. And, 
as with previous months, he was charged an account fee, overdraft fee and interest at the 
beginning of the following month. When Mr S last used the account he was overdrawn by 
£1,966.28  leaving him £33.72 of his arranged overdraft limit. On that basis, even if his 
account had been downgraded in Summer 2018, without any payments from him after 
November 2018, he wouldve been in an unarranged overdraft in early 2019. I cant say that 
the overdraft fee or the interest payment shouldve been unexpected by Mr S, as these were 
both features of the account he had, and the account he thought he had. And in December 
2018, as far as he was aware, his complaint hadnt at that time been resolved, so the 
monthly fee was continuing alongside the other charges. 
Mr S has told us that when he made the complaint to TSB in November 2018, it told him that 
he wouldnt receive any additional charges that would impact his credit rating (whilst his 
complaint was investigated). TSBs system notes for this complaint show it being closed as 
resolved on 7 November 2018, with Mr S accepting the resolution and they dont list him 
being told anything about charges impacting his credit file. Mr S has told us he chased TSB 
about this complaint in early February 2019, but didnt receive an arranged call back. And 
then he chased it again in March 2019. During this call he says he discovered the complaint 
was closed and a new complaint was opened.
TSB has provided us with a recording from the March 2019 call, but unfortunately it isnt 
clear, so Ive had to consider Mr Ss recollections of the call and TSBs notes. Both parties 
accept that the call was in relation to charges on the account, but beyond this the notes do 
not match Mr Ss recollections. Mr S says only his ongoing complaint about fees was 
discussed and not the current status of the account. TSB reports that the account was 
discussed, including recent fees.
While I have taken into account what Mr S has told us, I consider that I can put more weight 
on TSBs call notes, as they were completed at the time of the call. And these suggest Mr S 
was aware of the charges on his account at this time and would be calling back to discuss a 
payment plan. By this point, TSB had sent Mr S five arrears notices, so, while I accept I 
havent heard the call, I would also be surprised if the arrears werent discussed with him, 
considering what the advisor would be able to see on file for Mr S. TSB then has no record 
of any other calls being received until December 2019, when Mr S received contact by a 
debt collector and called TSB.
Mr S says he did call to discuss the complaint between March and December 2019, but was 
told hed receive a call back that never came. And he wasnt aware of the account status. 
Even if I accept this was the case; including that he wasnt told about the arrears in March 
2019, by this time TSBs online banking issues were resolved. And as Ive set out, 
regardless of the fee issue, agreed charges were continuing on the account. So, after not 
receiving any material update about the complaint for six months and knowing he left the account considerably overdrawn, I do consider Mr S shouldve reviewed the status of the 
account.
The evidence TSB holds from November 2018 doesnt suggest Mr S was told that the 
ongoing complaint would stop his credit file being affected. And Mr S did say to us at one 
point that he was led to believe the account was frozen while the complaint was being 
investigated  but he also continued to use the account after the complaint was made. So 
there are some inconsistencies in his recollections. In any event, Im not persuaded that his 
recollections of the call are enough to say TSB is wrong to record the late payment markers. 
Im satisfied Mr S shouldve known that agreed interest and fees would be charged each 
month on the account. And months went by without him checking the status of the account, 
despite him leaving this account very close to the overdraft limit  by his own spending. 
I accept that TSB mistakenly had the wrong details for Mr S and so failed to notify him by 
letter of the status of his account. But this doesnt remove Mr Ss responsibility to manage 
his own account. Mr S didnt review the account or make any payments in over a year. And 
while Ive considered his ongoing complaint, I dont think that means he was without any 
responsibility for his overdraft. He waited months to chase TSB after first making the 
complaint and then nearly a further month to chase a call back. And in March 2019 he 
discovered his complaint had been closed. But he still didnt check the account, despite his 
testimony to us that he relied on there not being charges while this complaint was open. 
Ive reviewed the relevant legislation that applies to this complaint, but this doesnt change 
my decision. I note Mr S has quoted some legislation, but Ive reviewed the most up-to-date 
versions of the relevant codes. And, as weve previously discussed, TSB took the debt back 
from the debt recovery agent and removed the default from Mr Ss record before our 
involvement. So it has acknowledged it made a mistake applying the default (as it didnt give 
the required Notice) and it has rectified this. Mr S has listed a number of ways in which he 
considers TSB has failed and I agree with him  as does TSB  that mistakes were made, 
especially in its communication. But the fact TSB made mistakes doesnt mean that Mr S 
automatically gets the resolution hes seeking. At this point the issue left for me to decide is 
whether its fair the late payments markers remain. 
I acknowledge that TSB shouldve had the correct details for Mr S  and so if it did have 
these, it could and likely wouldve done more to notify him about the late payment markers 
on his account. And I appreciate Mr S says he wouldve acted on this notification. But I do 
also have to consider TSBs notes from March 2019 suggest that the arrears were discussed 
with Mr S  but he took no action. And, Im also satisfied that Mr S had a number of 
opportunities to prevent these markers, despite not receiving any letters, but he didnt. 
Especially by March 2019, I think Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware his account 
was in arrears. So I dont consider it would be appropriate for TSB to remove the markers, 
as I think TSB has presented an accurate reflection of how Mr S managed his account at 
that time.
Mr S has provided details of how late payments and defaults are related. However, the rules 
around applying a default are different to late payment markers. So TSB can remove the 
default but not the markers. Hes said the Information Commissioners Office has questioned 
TSBs approach. But my role is to decide this case within our remit. And, as Ive previously 
explained to Mr S, some of the legislation hes quoted relates to enforcing an agreement 
when notice isnt given. But TSB didnt seek to enforce his debt. And Mr S then received 
information about the full debt which he then cleared, so this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman