DRN-1348960
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy about how Goodwin Barrett Ltd (GB) dealt with a claim for a mis-
sold investment.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M had investments they were unhappy with and they instructed GB to make a 
claim on their behalf. The claim was successful, and GB invoiced for their fees.
Mrs and Mr M have complained they were led to use GBs services incorrectly, and they 
were told that going to the investment provider themselves could affect the outcome of their 
complaint. Theyre also unhappy with GBs fees, and think these are too high.
Our investigator found that GB had provided a reasonable service. She felt that, because 
Mrs and Mr M had been unsuccessful when they initially approached the investment provider 
to make a claim themselves, they were likely to need the assistance of a company like GB to 
make any claim. 
She found that GB had explained their services, were open about their process, and made it 
clear that Mrs and Mr M didnt need to use them to make a claim. She also found that GB 
were clear about their fees from the outset and provided written terms and conditions that 
explained these, which Mrs and Mr M signed to agree to. Because of this she didnt think GB 
needed to do anything.
Mrs and Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. They believe that GB were underhand in 
not checking whether theyd made a complaint to the investment provider first. They feel 
that, had they done so, they wouldve successfully made a claim themselves and wouldnt 
have had to pay any fees. Because of this they feel that GB have clearly taken advantage of 
2 vulnerable people.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs and Mr M first contacted GB about their claim in April 2019 and Ive listened to the calls 
that took place on 12 April 2019. Mrs M told GB shed tried to complain to the investment 
company herself, that shed spoken to four different people, that each one of them had 
fobbed her off, and that shed have to go into a branch to make a claim. Also, in a call 
between Mr M and GB on 30 July 2019, he said they tried and make the claim themselves, 
but they got nowhere at all which is why they instructed GB to help them.In the first of the calls on 12 April 2019, GB explained their process and what they would be 
able to claim for. They also explained that Mrs and Mr M could complain directly to the 
investment company and the Financial Ombudsman Service free of charge. 
Ive also listened to the call which took place on 25 April 2019. During this call Mrs and Mr M 
were told the investment company may contact them to ask them questions about the claim. 
GB said they could speak to the investment company, or they might want to tell them to refer 
any questions to GB. Mr M also said that, as a rule, they dont do any business over the 
phone, so they wouldnt speak to the investment company about this anyway.
Because GB were being paid to represent Mrs and Mr M in their claim, I think the advice 
they gave them was reasonable  Id expect GB to deal with the investment company and 
wouldnt expect Mrs and Mr M to have to do this. And because Mrs and Mr M were given the 
choice of what to do, I cant agree they were told not to speak to the investment company.
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions (the terms) Mrs and Mr M signed in April 2019. 
These are a single page document, in clear and understandable language, without any 
small print. In the first paragraph, Mrs and Mr M are encouraged to contact GB to discuss 
anything theyre unsure about.
Ive seen that the terms say I am aware that I can pursue a claim for a mis-sold Investment 
myself directly with my bank of financial adviser and can use the free services of the 
Financial Ombudsman service (FOS) to do so. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, Mrs and Mr M approached GB because they were 
having difficulty making the claim themselves. They were advised they could make the claim 
themselves, both verbally and in writing, but chose to instruct GB to make the claim for them. 
Because of this I cant agree that GB were underhand in not letting Mrs and Mr M know 
about their options to make the claim themselves or told them they couldnt do so.
In the 12 April calls GB also explained that their fee was 40% plus VAT (48%) of any 
successful claim. The terms also say GB will charge you a fixed fee of 40% plus VAT (total 
of 48%) of the gross amount of compensation you may receive from your claim. The terms 
also contained three examples of how GBs fees would be calculated.
Mrs and Mr M had the right to cancel the agreement with GB within 14 days, at no cost. Ive 
seen noting to show me they wanted to cancel or tried to do so. So Im satisfied they 
instructed GB to act for them, knowing both what level of fee they would be charged and 
how this would be calculated. So I cant agree that GB were underhand or tried to take 
advantage of Mrs and Mr M regarding their fees.
GB charge a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where a claim was successful, GBs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because GBs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mrs and Mr M 
doesnt make their fee unjustified.
GB made the claim to the investment provider, as instructed, on 29 April 2019. The claim 
was successful July 2019 and Mrs and Mr M were awarded £31,017.40 gross (£28,223.37 
net) each. GB initially invoiced Mrs and Mr M based on a successful claim of £57,646.74, but 
I cant see where they got this figure from. 
But GB have recalculated their invoice based on a successful claim of £56,446.74 (the net 
value of the joint claim). As Mrs and Mr M had already paid the initial invoice, and been overcharged by £576, GB refunded £650 which included a goodwill gesture by way of an 
apology for the overcharge. I think this was reasonable, especially as they charged their fees 
on the net award when the terms allow them to charge on the gross award. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
Mrs and Mr M have also said they were advised by not to go to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service even though the investment company hadnt responded to the claim within 12-
weeks. They feel that this was misleading advice and information because the financial 
ombudsman is a free independent company and we would not have had to pay out a huge 
sum of money.
The investment company have a set time period in which to respond to a complaint, and if 
they dont then this can be escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service. If this had 
happened, and if wed investigated the claim for Mrs and Mr M, this wouldnt have altered 
the fact that GBs fees would still be due. GB made the claim on Mrs and Mr Ms behalf and 
wouldve escalated the matter to us on their behalf as well. So theyd have done what Mrs 
and Mr M asked them to do and, as per the terms, their fees wouldve been due. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint about Goodwin 
Barrett Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman