DRN-3151788
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about the way Next Retail Limited handled her credit account. She 
returned items to store but these werent credited to her account and her credit file was 
affected. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs H raised a query with Next because items shed returned to store 
hadnt been credited to her account. Mrs H provided details of the items and was advised 
that these would be credited but this didnt happen.
In April 2021 Mrs H queried this again. Next said it couldnt find any record of the previous 
query and asked Mrs H to provide details of the items again. However, by this time, 
payments to the outstanding balance on her account were in default and her credit file had 
been affected.
Mrs H complained to Next. In response, it said it wouldnt remove the adverse information on 
her credit file because she hadnt made the minimum payment on her account.
Mrs H was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Following the referral of the complaint to this service, Next credited all of the items and 
offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenient caused. But it said it didnt 
think it was right to remove the adverse information from Mrs Hs credit file.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the offer so this service investigated the complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that if Next had credited the returned items 
when Mrs H first raised her complaint, he thought it was likely that she would have made a 
payment to clear the balance on her account in full, as she had always done this previously. 
The investigator said he didnt think Next had acted fairly by reporting adverse information 
on Mrs Hs credit file and asked Next to remove it.
Next didnt agree. It said that although it had provided poor service, this didnt affect Mrs Hs 
obligation to pay the minimum payment. Next said that the amounts in dispute didnt cover 
the whole balance and that Mrs H would have been aware that a payment was necessary.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that all of the items have now been credited back to Mrs Hs account. So, the 
only remaining aspect of Mrs Hs complaint is the impact of the adverse information on her 
credit file.
Ive looked at Mrs Hs account. Theres no indication that Mrs H has a history of missed or 
late payments. Generally, she pays the outstanding balance in full by the due date as 
opposed to making the minimum payment.
I can see, however, that Mrs H missed payments whilst the disputed items were being dealt 
with by Next. So, Ive thought about whether Mrs H would have missed these payments if 
Next had done what it should have done and credited the account when Mrs H first raised 
the issue in March 2021.
Mrs H has told this service that she was more than wiling to pay the balance on her account 
but that she wanted to pay the correct amount. She doesnt think its fair that shes been 
penalised with adverse information being reported on her credit file when she had made 
every effort to make Next aware of the issue regarding the disputed items.
Next says that there was a balance on Mrs Hs account which was separate from the 
disputed items and in respect of which a payment was required. It says the payment was 
due by 16 April but that no payment was received until June. Next says it has a duty to 
report factual information to the credit reference agencies. It says it doesnt agree that the 
adverse information should be removed because Mrs H shouldve made a minimum 
payment towards the non-disputed balance.
Ive taken into account what both parties have said. Im persuaded that if Next had credited 
Mrs Hs account with the disputed items in March 2021, which it said it would, then she 
would have paid her account balance in full. I dont think Next acted fairly when it reported 
adverse information, because the reason for Mrs H not making a payment was due to the 
balance of the account being in dispute as a result of the failure by Next to credit the 
disputed items.
I appreciate that Mrs H missed payments whilst the issue of the disputed items remained 
unresolved. But taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think Next acted fairly here.
Putting things right
To put things right, Next Retail Limited must remove the adverse information from Mrs Hs 
credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Next Retail Limited must remove the adverse 
information from Mrs Hs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman