DRN-2264383
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc acted unfairly when it reversed a refund 
it had made to his account for goods he hadnt received.
What happened
Mr J had a current account with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS). He had a debit card 
for the account. He used the debit card to pay for an online purchase of goods in December 
2019. Mr J says he never received the goods.
He contacted RBS and he says it refunded his account in January 2020. He says he 
received a message shortly after this which said the goods had been signed for. He phoned 
RBS about this. He says it told him not to worry about the message and to take no further 
action.
Mr J says he realised in March that RBS had reversed the refund and his account was left 
overdrawn. He complained to RBS.
RBS investigated his complaint. It said it had sent Mr J an email on 15 January 2020 after it 
had refunded his account. It said this email set out the chargeback process which applied to 
a dispute of this nature.
RBS said the shop which had supplied the goods had raised a counterclaim. In the 
counterclaim it said the goods had been delivered to Mr Js address and had been signed 
for. This information was provided to Mr J in February 2020, but he hadnt responded. When 
he contacted it again it was too late to continue with the chargeback process. So, RBS didnt 
uphold this part of his complaint. RBS acknowledged it had provided poor service when 
handling Mr Js calls and it paid him £40 by way of compensation.
Mr J didnt agree. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaints. 
She said the chargeback process was a voluntary scheme which was operated by the card 
scheme provider which, in this case, was Visa. 
She said she was satisfied RBS had sent an email to Mr J asking for his response to the 
counterclaim which had been raised. Mr J said hed been told not to respond to this email, 
but our investigator said there was no evidence to support this. She said shed listened to a 
call recording RBS had provided and, having done so, she thought it was more likely RBS 
wouldve told him to respond to the email in writing.
Our investigator said RBS had paid Mr J £40 for poor service. She thought it had done 
enough to put things right.
Mr J didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important at the outset to explain that the Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary code  its 
not a right and its not guaranteed to recover the money. When Mr J told RBS, he hadnt 
received the goods it raised a claim under the Chargeback Scheme. Thats what wed expect 
it to have done. We then look at whether it followed the chargeback process correctly. 
I can see RBS sent Mr J an email on the day he phoned it to request the refund. The email 
said RBS was temporarily refunding the payment to his account. It then set out What 
happens next. RBS said the retailer might provide more details and the temporary refund 
could be reversed. And, it said it might need to contact Mr J if it needed further information. 
The email also said that if Mr J heard nothing within sixty days the refund would remain in 
his account.
So, I think this made clear to Mr J what the process was. And, it explained clearly that if the 
retailer provided more details the refund could be reversed.
In this case the retailer did provide more details. RBS sent these details to Mr J. That is not 
in dispute. But Mr J says he phoned RBS when he got this information and it told him he 
didnt need to do anything.
Ive thought about what Mr J has said here. The information request was sent to him on 14 
February 2020. RBS has a record of a telephone call it received from Mr J on 17 February 
2020. So, I think it is likely this is the call Mr J is referring to. So, Ive listened to that call.
When we asked RBS to provide a copy of this call it was able to provide a copy of the initial 
conversation with Mr J. Mr J was then put on hold and there is a recording of the internal 
conversation between RBS representatives. But RBS hasnt been able to provide a 
recording of what happened after it reconnected to Mr J.
Its unfortunate that there isnt a full recording of the later part of the conversation. So, I have 
to consider, based on the recordings and the other information weve been provided with, 
whether there is any evidence to support what Mr J has said.
During the call Mr J refers to his claim. RBSs adviser said she would put the call on hold 
whilst checking into the matter. 
The adviser then made an internal call to the team which deals with chargeback requests. 
She enquired about Mr Js claim. She was told the merchant had raised a counterclaim and 
the details of this had been sent to Mr J. So, Mr J needed to provide his response to what 
the merchant had said. To do this he needed to send back a response to the email quoting 
his sort code and account number. 
Having listened to these call recordings Im not persuaded the adviser wouldve gone back to 
Mr J and told him he didnt need to do anything. I think its likely she wouldve told Mr J he 
needed to respond to the information hed been sent about the counterclaim. 
Because Mr J hadnt responded, the refund was reversed in March 2020. I can see he 
contacted RBS at that time. And there were several subsequent calls. There is then a call on 
2 May 2020 where Mr J was told not to send his account details in reply to an email hed 
received. 
On this call, he was told it would be safer to wait and speak to the relevant team at the bank 
since there may be a doubt about whether the email hed received was legitimate or not. I 
cannot be certain, but it may be that this is the telephone call Mr J is referring to when he says he was told not to do anything. But, by this stage it was already too late to continue with 
the chargeback process.
So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied RBS raised the chargeback and sent Mr 
J a request for further information when it received the counterclaim from the merchant. Mr J 
didnt reply to that request for information until after it was too late to continue with the 
chargeback. RBS had reversed the refund in March 2020. I dont think RBS did anything 
wrong when it reversed the refund after it hadnt received a response.
As mentioned above, the chargeback scheme is a voluntary code. Its not a right and it isnt 
guaranteed to recover the money. In this case RBS did everything it was required to do. I 
havent found any evidence to support what Mr J has said about RBS telling him he didnt 
need to respond to its email about the counterclaim. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
I can see RBS acknowledged it could have handled his phone calls better. Its paid him £40 
by way of compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman