DRN-2918259
The complaint
Mr J complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) have been unreasonable when 
terminating his finance agreement and reporting adverse information to his credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The terms of Mr Js agreement with Moneybarn allowed them to repossess the car and 
terminate the agreement with Mr J because he was in breach. 
Term 8.1.2 explained Moneybarn had a right to terminate the agreement if You breach any 
other term. One of those terms was that Mr J would need to be insured and he clearly 
couldnt do that if he didnt have a valid license.
Term 8.1.3 explained that Moneybarn had the right to terminate the agreement if any of the 
information you have given us before entering this agreement  was false and as Mr J had 
not provided a valid license I think he was also in breach of that term. Moneybarn were 
entitled to repossess the car and terminate the agreement; as they subsequently did.
 
Moneybarn have explained that had they known Mr J didnt have a valid driving license they 
would not have agreed to provide finance for the car. They made a mistake when accepting 
the invalid license.
But Mr J clearly knew he was a disqualified driver and that his license wasnt a valid one. 
Moneybarn are invoking their rights under section 9 of the contract to charge Mr J the 
balance of the agreement less rebate and proceeds of the sale. Theyve also registered 
adverse information on Mr Js credit file as hes defaulted on the agreement.
  
Putting things right
Had Mr J not provided invalid information this issue wouldnt have happened. I think its 
reasonable to have expected him to understand he was required to provide a valid license 
and that he would not be insured without one. 
But, I also think Moneybarn could have been expected to identify the failing.
Ive thought about how to put that right and I think the investigators suggestion, that the 
business have accepted, is a reasonable one. It reduces the sum owed and recognises the 
errors on both sides.
Moneybarn have an obligation to report activity on an account accurately. Its clear the 
account was defaulted, and payments were missed. So, I dont think they need to amend the 
reports theyve made to Mr Js credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Limit Mr Js liability to the cash price of the vehicle plus the interest that had become due in 
the months he had the car, plus the charge incurred for recovering the vehicle from the 
pound. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman