DRN-3112646
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Volkswagen Financial Services trading as Porsche Financial 
Services (VWFS) dealt with his request for a payment deferral during the Covid-19 
pandemic. He said this has affected his credit file, caused distress and financial losses.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr S entered into a 24 month personal contract plan (PCP) with VWFS 
for a used car. The cash price of the car was £83,000, it had travelled over 30,000 miles and 
it was first registered in July 2014. He was required to pay £815 per month with a final 
payment of £51,870.
In March 2020, Mr S contacted VWFS to advise that he was self employed and due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, he wasnt in receipt of any income and he would have to cancel his 
payments.
In May 2020, Mr S contacted VWFS to ask about a payment deferral and he was advised to 
complete a form to make the request. The agreement was temporarily suspended. After 
being denied credit, Mr S realised that his credit file was reporting missed payments from 
VWFS. He contacted them again and said he thought the payment deferral was meant to be 
backdated to cover the missed payments for April and May 2020. He was advised the 
payment deferral request was still under review. In June 2020, VWFS confirmed the request 
had been denied due to the account being in arrears and the agreement was reactivated. 
Mr S complained. VWFS said they hadnt agreed to the payment deferral as the account was 
in arrears for April and May 2020 and they were entitled to report adverse information to his 
credit file accordingly. However they said while the payment deferral request was under 
review, they wouldnt report it for that period. However as the payment deferral request had 
been denied, any adverse information from July 2020 onwards would reflect the arrears 
balance.
Unhappy with their response, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. In addition to the 
payment deferral being denied, he said the adverse information recorded on his credit file 
had significantly impacted his ability to get credit such as a mortgage and he incurred other 
financial losses which he believed he should be compensated for. 
Our investigator recommended the case was upheld. They believed VWFS hadnt treated  
Mr S with forbearance and due consideration during his time of financial difficulty as a result 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. They didnt believe it was fair for VWFS to decline his request for 
a payment deferral. They accepted Mr S credit report had been impacted but didnt believe 
they had enough evidence to say the declined credit was specifically due to the adverse 
information recorded by VWFS. To resolve the complaint, they said VWFS should:
- treat the missed payments as a payment deferral; 
- discuss with Mr S appropriate options for repayment of the deferral payments and future 
payments;
- remove the adverse information from Mr S credit from April 2020 onwards;
- pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
VWFS agreed. Mr S didnt believe the compensation was enough as he said he lost a 
minimum of £80,000 due to the declined mortgage applications. He provided additional 
evidence such as his credit reports and evidence of his car insurance premium being 
increased. He said the adverse information about the missed payments with VWFS was the 
only thing that was impacting his credit score and his ability to get credit.
After some back and forth with the investigator and VWFS, Mr S reluctantly agreed to accept 
the opinion in order to bring matters to an end. His acceptance was communicated to VWFS 
in December 2020 and the case was closed. 
In January 2021, Mr S told our service that despite his acceptance of the investigators 
opinion, his credit report showed up to 14 missed payments with VWFS and he said he was 
told he owed them £3,261. He didnt believe this amount was correct as he only missed 
three months payments (April to June 2020).
Over the next few months, Mr S contacted our service on numerous occasions. In summary, 
he said:
- adverse information continued to report on his credit file and impacted his ability to 
get credit;
- his existing credit had been restricted and/or limited;
- he received a default notice in February 2021;
- he had difficulty contacting VWFS to set up a payment plan and when this was set up 
in March 2021, they wouldnt accept his payments. He received conflicting 
information as to how long the payment plan would last;
- he felt he had no choice but to end the agreement to resolve the issues and he 
incurred a loss.
VWFS said as Mr S account was in arrears they couldnt prevent the adverse information 
from reporting however on a monthly basis they would manually remove it from his credit file. 
They also said the payment plan was for 12 months and this needed to be paid as a 
separate direct debit to the monthly contractual payments.
Due to the above issues and the ongoing impact on his credit file, Mr S decided to end the 
agreement by returning the car and it was settled in full in April 2021. However he said he 
was later told he owed £815, this was incorrect and VWFS apologised for the error.
Given what had happened since the case was closed in December 2020, our service asked 
VWFS if they were prepared to increase their offer of compensation. They said they would 
pay £250 compensation. Mr S was unhappy with this as he didnt think it was enough given 
the circumstances and he maintained he should be compensated for his financial losses.
In September 2021, I issued my provisional decision and said:
Covid-19 payment deferral
In this decision, Ive considered whether I believe VWFS showed forbearance and due 
consideration in light of Mr S financial difficulty and whether they acted fairly in declining his 
request for a Covid-19 payment deferral. In this case, I dont think they have and Ill explain 
why.The UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic on 23 
March 2020 and I can see Mr S sent an email to VWFS the next day to say he would be 
cancelling his direct debit as he was unable to make his contractual payments due to no 
income. 
In cases of financial difficulty, I would expect VWFS to follow the guidance as found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which says 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. However based on VWFS contact notes, I cant see they responded to Mr S 
email. I appreciate given the unprecedented nature of Covid-19, its most likely they were 
very busy dealing with consumers who found themselves in similar situations like Mr S and 
this wouldve placed a great strain on their operation. I also understand matters wouldve 
been unclear at that point as to how best to deal with such situations. However as no action 
was taken by VWFS, I cant say they showed forbearance or due consideration to Mr S as 
set out by the guidance.
However on 27 April 2020, the FCA released specific guidance titled Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. The guidance stated that a 
firm should grant a customer whos finances had been negatively impacted by the Covid-
19 pandemic, a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines (acting 
reasonably) its obviously not in the customers interests to do. The intention behind the 
guidance was to ensure consumers who wouldve otherwise been fine, wouldnt be 
negatively impacted by Covid-19. In this case, it would appear Mr S had maintained his 
contractual payments without issue so on that basis, I think its fair to say this guidance 
would apply to him. 
When Mr S contacted VWFS in May 2020 about the payment deferral, the above FCA 
guidance was in place. Given Mr S received an acknowledgment email from VWFS 
saying he had passed their initial checks for the payment deferral, I can understand why 
he thought it would be agreed and perhaps backdated. So I appreciate his disappointment 
and upset at being told the request was declined due to the account being arrears. 
In my opinion, its clear Mr S account fell into arrears due to payment difficulties as a result 
of the Covid-19 pandemic, however Im not satisfied VWFS fairly took this into account when 
reviewing his payment deferral request. Instead they determined the arrears was the reason 
to decline it. I believe they couldve done more to understand Mr S financial circumstances 
and the reasons for the arrears. Had they done so and showed due consideration to his 
individual circumstances as I would expect, it wouldve been clear he was financially 
impacted by Covid-19. On that basis, I believe it wouldve been fair and reasonable for 
VWFS to have agreed to the payment deferral in line with the FCA guidance. So I agree with 
the investigators opinion that the three months arrears dated April to June 2020 should be 
treated as payment deferrals and adverse information should be removed.
While VWFS agreed with this resolution, its disappointing to see that they werent able to 
put the investigators recommendations into place as agreed. For example, Mr S said he had 
great difficulty contacting VWFS to set up a payment plan and he returned to our service for 
assistance in doing so. I note a payment plan wasnt set up until March 2021, which was 
three months after the case was initially closed. Its clear from the level of communication 
from Mr S to our service that this was causing upset and worry, especially when he also 
received a default notice.
I accept VWFS are obliged to report accurate information to Mr S credit file but Im not 
satisfied theyve done so. In the months that followed the case being closed, Mr S provided 
copies of his credit report which shows up to 14 missed payments being recorded by VWFS 
and on one occasion, I can see the markers are duplicated. This information was incorrect as Mr S had only missed three contractual payments, that is, April to June 2020 and as 
already set out and accepted by VWFS, all adverse information from April 2020 shouldve 
been removed.
VWFS said they would manually remove the adverse information each month from Mr S 
credit file. While I acknowledge their efforts, this wasnt a long term or sustainable solution. I 
say this because it required manual human intervention on a monthly basis across different 
credit reference agencies and it goes without saying its susceptible to human error. In this 
case, thats what happened, some markers were removed, some werent. Meanwhile, this 
adverse reporting was having an impact on Mr S credit score and hes provided evidence to 
show it decreased in June 2020 which covers the time VWFS agreed the adverse 
information would be removed. 
Financial losses and compensation
Mr S said as a result of VWFS handling of this situation, adverse information has incorrectly 
been recorded on his credit file and this has resulted in significant financial losses. He 
reports such losses as being unable to obtain mortgages on two properties he was intending 
to buy meaning he lost at least £80,000, an increase in his annual car insurance premium, 
the reduction of his credit limit and the removal and/or reduction of his overdraft amount, 
amongst other things.
Having spoken to Mr S, I understand why he feels strongly about this matter. He is self-
employed and also has a property development business. Given the sources of his income, I 
understand the considerable impact the Covid-19 pandemic mustve had and why having a 
good credit score and healthy credit file is of upmost importance to him. 
However in order to award financial losses, I must be satisfied that it was a direct result of 
the business failing. In this case, that would mean I would need to be satisfied had it not 
been for VWFS failing to apply the payment deferral and remove the adverse information 
from the credit file, he wouldnt have incurred the financial losses as hes reported. Ive 
thought carefully about what Mr S has said and the evidence hes provided. In my opinion, I 
dont believe its enough for me to reasonably say thats what happened here. While I accept 
Mr S credit score is most likely to have been impacted, I cant say with any certainty this 
was the only reason for the declined applications for credit and other financial losses. For 
example, I havent been provided with any evidence to show the mortgage application was 
declined due to the information reported on Mr S credit file by VWFS. 
The decision to lend or to provide insurance, is a commercial decision by a financial 
business and while an individuals credit score will undoubtedly be a consideration, there are 
many other factors that are taken into account. Its also worth noting that throughout this 
period of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially at its peak, many financial businesses were 
being more cautious about lending due to the economic uncertainty. For some individuals, 
this also led to existing credit facilities being restricted and or reduced so I must bear this in 
mind when thinking about Mr S circumstances. Having done so, I dont believe I have 
sufficient evidence to safely conclude Mr S financial losses were a direct result of VWFS 
failings so I cant say they are responsible for this. Meaning, I wont be asking them to 
compensate him for such losses.
 
That said, having considered everything thats happened including whats gone on after 
VWFS accepted the investigators opinion, I recognise the impact and the level of trouble 
and upset upon Mr S and this can be seen in his level of communication with our service. 
This includes adverse information being incorrectly recorded against him over an extended 
amount of time despite being told it would be removed, the overall difficulties communicating 
with VWFS, the time spent trying to set up a payment plan, feeling he had no alternative but to settle the agreement in order to resolve the ongoing issues, being given incorrect 
information when the agreement ended, the worry of receiving a default letter and so forth. 
This wouldve all taken place during what was already a stressful and uncertain time for Mr S 
and its clear this situation caused further worry and upset.
The investigator has already awarded £150 compensation and from my understanding, this 
has been paid to Mr S. However in light of the further trouble and upset caused as outlined 
above, I believe VWFS should pay an additional £300 compensation. This means a total of 
£450 compensation in relation to this complaint. Lastly, I understand the agreement has now 
been settled but if they havent done so already, VWFS should remove any adverse 
information about this agreement from Mr S credit file from April 2020 onwards. 
Summary
Taking everything into account, I dont believe VWFS has treated Mr S fairly. In light of the 
existing guidance about financial difficulty and the FCAs specific guidance in response to 
Covid-19, I dont believe VWFS showed forbearance nor due consideration. Due to adverse 
information incorrectly reporting on Mr S credit file, this has caused considerable trouble and 
upset and overall I believe VWFS couldve provided a much better service.
Response to the provisional decision 
Mr S disagreed. He said he didnt believe the compensation was enough given what the 
situation has cost him financially. VWFS accepted the findings of the provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 While I thank Mr S for his further comments and I recognise his disappointment about the 
amount of compensation as he believes it isnt enough, I havent been provided with any 
further evidence to change my decision. Overall, I still consider my findings to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. 
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services trading as Porsche Financial Services 
must:
- Remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from April 2020 onwards;
- Pay a total of £450 compensation for the trouble and upset caused (this is £300 on 
top of the initial £150 compensation awarded)
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman