DRN-3088818
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Pet Plan. She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her pet insurance policy and the fact it added a 
number of exclusions to her policy.
What happened
Miss W took out a policy with Allianz in September 2000 and made a claim under her pet 
insurance policy after her pet had problems in relation to dental spurs in February 2021. But 
when Allianz looked into the claim it initially turned it down and added exclusions in relation 
to the pets mouth, teeth, tongue and gums. This was because Allianz hadnt been made 
aware that her pet had problems in relation to dental spurs in the past. And had it have 
known this it would have added the exclusions outlined. So, Miss W complained to Allianz.
When Allianz considered her complaint, it accepted that Miss W might not have known about 
the previous dental spurs problem. And so, it said it would pay the present claim as a 
gesture of good will. But it maintained that the exclusions would have to remain. This was 
because the problems pre-existed the start of the policy. As Miss W remained unhappy, she 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss W but didnt uphold the complaint. She explained 
that Miss W was asked clear questions about her pets previous history which should have 
been disclosed. For some reason the treating vet hadnt told Miss W about this. But it wasnt 
disputed that dental spurs had been identified by her vet before the policy was taken out and 
Miss Ws vet should have made her aware. 
As Miss W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I have some sympathy for the position Miss W has found 
herself Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss W appears to accept that her vet should have told her about her pets problem in 
relation to dental spurs earlier. And had the vet have told her this then she would have told 
Allianz about the dental spurs. So the problem seems to be between Miss W and her vet, but 
I cant hold Allianz responsible for this. 
I know Miss W feels that Allianz should have checked her pets veterinary history when she 
applied for her insurance policy. But pet insurance generally relies on the questions and 
answers given at the time of application, as opposed to getting the full medical history of the 
pet. And had Allianz have got the veterinary notes then Miss W would have been in a similar 
position in any event as the same exclusion would have been applied. However, her present 
claim wouldnt have been paid so she is in fact in a better position now. 
When Miss W first applied for her policy she told Allianz about her pets problems with its 
nails and that she had had to attend the vets about this, and Allianz applied an exclusion 
accordingly. This is what should have happened in relation to the dental spurs. And Ive 
looked at the underwriting criteria and it is clear that Allianz would have applied the 
exclusions in relation to the mouth, teeth, tongue and/or gums, the eyes and facial 
abscesses had it have been told about the dental spurs. So, I cant say it has acted 
unreasonable in applying this exclusion now. 
Given all of this I dont think Allianz has done anything wrong, especially as it dealt with the 
claim as a gesture of good will. So the exclusion hasnt had any affect at this point in time, 
although I accept the exclusion may affect any future claims. And Miss W can choose to take 
out another policy elsewhere if she wishes although her pets true veterinary history would 
have to be considered, just as it has been here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman