DRN-3662034
The complaint
Miss Cs account was upgraded to a fee-paying URCA with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (BOS) in December 2009. Miss C says that her account was upgraded without her 
consent and when she discovered that it had been changed, she was told that it was the 
only way to keep her overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think BOS had mis-sold the URCA. 
Because Miss C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that BOS mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Miss C was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. Firstly, I note that Miss C had held a 
fee-free account with BOS prior to when she took out the URCA. So, I think she would have 
known that, in general, fee-free accounts were available from BOS. 
Miss C says that her account was upgraded without her consent or knowledge and she only 
discovered that it had been changed when she noticed a fee on her account. Looking at the 
information provided I can see that only 4 days after the account had been upgraded Miss C 
registered a mobile handset under the mobile phone insurance. This was a month before the 
first fee debited her account. So, whilst I dont doubt the sincerity of Miss Cs recollection, it 
does not match up with the evidence from the time of the sale. I think this makes it more 
likely that she was aware at the time that her account had been changed and she agreed to 
it.
Miss C says she was not made aware that she could have kept her overdraft on a fee free 
account. I think it is more likely that she was told that by having the URCA she could have a 
fee free overdraft of up to £300 (subject to application).
To explain, prior to December 2009, BOS charged interest on overdrawn balances. After this 
point it instead introduced a daily fee that was tiered depending on the level an account 
holder was overdrawn. The URCA offered a £300 buffer limit, so account holders would not 
have to pay a daily overdraft fee if they were overdrawn up to £300. Whereas free accounts 
at the time incurred a daily overdraft usage fee of £1 a day. Given the timing of the upgrade I 
think that she was likely aware that she could continue to have an overdraft on a fee free 
account, but discovered that it would not be free and therefore she chose to have her 
overdraft on the URCA as it came with a fee free overdraft buffer and insurance benefits that 
she went on to use.
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, apart from the overdraft buffer, were 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. I 
can see that Miss C registered a number of mobile phone handsets, contacted the travel 
provider on multiple occasions and contacted the breakdown provider once. This suggests 
that she could use the majority of the benefits that the account came with. 
Overall, while I do appreciate what Miss C has said about the sale itself, on balance I think 
its more likely she agreed to the account because she was attracted to the overall package 
of benefits.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore BOS did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Miss C. It did though have to give Miss C enough 
information to decide this for herself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to 
Miss C to make the account seem attractive. I accept that Miss C may not have been given 
all the information about all of the benefits of the account, but I cant see anything specific 
that Miss C was not told that I think wouldve changed her decision to take out the account.
 
On balance, I think Miss C agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that she didnt have to. 
And I think its more likely she did so because at the time she was interested in the benefits 
on the account, although I accept that Miss C may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Miss C. Its clear that Miss C feels strongly that 
the account was mis-sold, and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have 
provided value for money. But I cant say that an account was mis-sold just because Miss C 
may not have received value for money, I can only say an account was mis-sold if something 
went wrong during the sales process and in this instance I dont think that this was the case.
My final decision
I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman