DRN-2478979
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled an outstanding 
balance she owed.
What happened
Around July 2019, Ms M contacted Admiral to cancel her upcoming car insurance policy 
renewal. At the time, Ms M wasnt aware that a final payment of her current policy premium 
was due. Ms Ms direct debt was also cancelled so Admiral was unable to collect the final 
payment. 
In July 2020, Admiral sent Ms M a letter from its internal collections team advising her that 
she owed the insurer a balance of £36.86. Ms M complained as she hadnt been told about 
this balance for around a year. Admiral explained that Ms M wasnt contacted sooner 
because of a system issue. The insurer decided to waive the outstanding balance because 
Ms M wasnt contacted sooner.
Remaining unhappy, Ms M asked this service to step in. She says the letter from Admiral left 
her angry and upset and is concerned that adverse information may have been recorded on 
her credit file. Ms M is also unhappy that Admiral made reference to the pandemic in its 
letter to her.
Our investigator didnt think that Admiral needed to do anything more. The investigator 
agreed that Admiral shouldve contacted Ms M sooner but felt that, by waiving the balance 
that was due, Admiral had done enough to put things right. The investigator received 
confirmation from Admiral that it hadnt reported anything adverse to a credit reference 
agency and that Admirals reference to the pandemic in its letter wasnt unreasonable.
Ms M disagreed as she feels the insurer is getting away with making a mistake. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be asking Admiral to do anything more and Ill explain why:
The issue with the missed payment seems to have occurred because the direct debit 
arrangement was cancelled  so as Admiral says, it was unable to collect the final 
instalment. At some point shortly after Admiral couldnt collect this payment, the 
insurer shouldve contacted Ms M to let her know. Theres nothing to suggest Ms M 
couldnt make this payment, so I think its likely she wouldve paid the balance as 
soon as she was made aware. 
Admiral says it didnt contact Ms M prior to July 2020 because of a problem with its 
system. So the first Ms M was made aware of the missed payment was around a 
year later  when Admirals internal collections teams wrote to her. I can understand 
that receiving this letter wouldve caused Ms M some distress. 
Admiral acknowledges that it shouldve contacted Ms M sooner and I agree. To make 
up for its error, Admiral decided to waive the balance that Ms M owed. I think this is a 
fair way to resolve the matter, so I wont be asking Admiral to do anything more in 
order to put things right. 
Ms M is concerned that the missed payment may have resulted in adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file. Ms M sent us a copy of her credit report 
and I cant see that Admiral reported the missed payment. Admiral also told us that it 
didnt report this information either. 
Ms M is also unhappy that Admiral made reference to the pandemic in its letter to 
her. Ive seen a copy of the letter and the relevant part says we fully understand that 
we are in unprecedented times as a result of the Coronavirus outbreak and you may 
not be in a position to pay your balance. I appreciate that the missed payment was 
from around August 2019 which is well before the pandemic. However, given when 
the letter was actually sent, I dont think Admirals wording is unreasonable.
Ms M feels Admiral is getting away with making a mistake. But its not the role of our 
service to punish or fine businesses for making a mistake. Its our role to establish 
whether Admiral has acted unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint and explain 
what it should do to put things right. In this instance, as I said above, Admiral has 
acted fairly to make up for its error.
In summary, Admiral acknowledges that it couldve contacted Ms M sooner. To make up for 
this error, the insurer waived the balance Ms M owed. I think this is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont be asking Admiral to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Admiral  Insurance Company Limited to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman