DRN-3428295
The complaint
Mr T and Ms J, as beneficiaries of a trust, complain that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt managed 
the investments within the trust appropriately.
What happened
Mr T and Ms Js late father (the settlor) left a sum of money to be placed into trust as part of 
his will. His wife  Mrs T - would be executor of the will and trustee, as well as a beneficiary. 
The will set out that the trust should be dissolved within two years of the settlors death and 
the proceeds distributed between Mrs T, Mr T and Ms J in proportions determined by the 
trustee (Mrs T). In 2012, Mrs T  the trustee  appointed Lloyds as sole trustee of the trust. 
And investment objective was agreed to pay the income to her and the capital to Mr T and 
Ms J at the end of the trust. Fees would be taken from the trust capital.
In 2014, the trust was extended to the life of Mrs T. This meant that she would be entitled to 
an income throughout her life and Mr T and Ms J would receive the capital at the end. Mrs T 
has recently passed away and Mr T and Ms J have confirmed the trust proceeds are being 
distributed to them.
Throughout the life of the trust Lloyds increased the income paid to Mrs T upon her request. 
Mr T and Ms J were unhappy with this because they felt it was unnecessary and would harm 
the growth of the trust capital.
Mr T and Ms J complain that Lloyds increased the income paid to Mrs T without consulting 
them. They also complain about how Lloyds managed the trust assets generally since 
becoming trustee. Specifically, they believe the trust funds have performed poorly and the 
majority of capital growth has been used to pay fees.
Our Investigator explained that we couldnt look into the general management of the trust as 
that isnt a regulated activity. She explained that she could look into how Lloyds managed 
the investments in the trust.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that she felt the investments were 
managed in a way to meet the investment strategy. She felt the fund profile was appropriate 
to meet the investment strategy and the fund was diversified. She said overall she was 
satisfied Lloyds used its discretion as trustee to manage the trust investments in line with the 
objectives of the trust.
Mr T and Ms J disagreed. They explained that with the fees applied, the trust capital has 
diminished whilst Lloyds has taken over £34,000 in fees. They also said that the income paid 
to Mrs T was over £45,000. They feel that this shows Lloyds hadnt balanced the portfolio for 
the interests of all beneficiaries.
The recorded trust investment strategy is to provide a balance between income for me and 
capital growth for the ultimate beneficiaries
Mr T and Ms J say that the words ultimate beneficiaries should be interpreted as those who 
get the trust capital net of the fees. As such, they feel that the strategy was to provide a 
balance of income for Mrs T and growth, net of the fees, for them. As the income and the net 
growth are very different, they believe this shows Lloyds hasnt managed the investments in 
line with the trust objectives. They asked for an Ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons. Our 
Investigator has already explained that our service is limited to investigating regulated 
activities only. So, with this in mind, this decision is based around Lloyds management of 
the trust investments.
In 2012, the amount invested into the trust was around £282,295. The funds were invested 
in the Balanced Profile fund. This funds aim is to provide long term capital appreciation and 
income growth, together with an immediate income yield on the overall portfolio for the 
income beneficiary. As of 30 September 2020 the trust value was around £290,626. The 
total fees deducted was around £39,000 over the life of the trust. The income generated was 
around £57,000 a proportion of which was paid to Mrs T with the remainder being used to 
meet income tax liabilities.
Lloyds say that adding the fees to the value show a total growth of around £47,000. It 
compared the performance to a benchmark and showed that it was in line with that Index. 
Lloyds say the overall performance, including the income, has shown it carried out its duties 
to meet the investment objectives and I agree. Performance is never guaranteed but Id 
expect Lloyds to have done something if it didnt look like the trust funds were on track to 
achieve the objectives. However, in this case, it was able to generate the income that Mrs T 
(the income beneficiary) required and provide some growth to the capital.
Mr T and Ms J appear to take issue with the way the investment strategy has been 
interpreted. The investment strategy says:
to provide a balance between income for me and capital growth for the ultimate 
beneficiaries
Mr T says that income for me relates entirely to the income for Mrs T  not income for 
anyone else or to be used for tax. Therefore capital growth for the ultimate beneficiaries 
should, using the same interpretation, mean the growth only for himself and Ms J to the 
exclusion of fees and capital gains tax. Mr T says this means the balance should be between 
the income Mrs T was paid and the net capital growth. As the net capital growth (after fees 
and tax) is less than £9,000 and the income paid to Mrs T was around £45,000, Mr T says 
Lloyds has failed in its obligation to manage the investments in a way to meet the investment 
strategy.
Ive thought carefully about this point, and I can understand why Mr T has interpreted the 
wording the way he has, but I need to determine whether Lloyds has managed the 
investments in line with the overall strategy and I think it has done so. 
I think its likely the words ultimate beneficiaries were included to distinguish Mr T and Ms J 
from Mrs T  who was the income beneficiary. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have gone beyond 
the objective it was given  which was to achieve a balance between income and capital 
growth. I can see it invested the trust money into a fund which aimed to achieve this 
balance. And I can see it was able to generate growth, and it was able to generate income. I havent seen evidence that Lloyds has mismanaged the fund, or that the growth shouldve 
been separated from the level of fees. The fees were agreed at the outset and these were 
taken from the capital which was what Lloyds were instructed to do. The trust fund achieved 
growth as well as producing an income so I dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably when 
using its discretion to manage the trust funds in the way that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman