DRN-3591061
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the way Devereaux Montague LLP (DM) has managed his 
personal pension and investments.
What happened
Mr K has a personal pension and an ISA with a provider Ill refer to as F.
DM is Mr Ks financial adviser and it provides him with ongoing advice on his pension and 
ISA in return for an annual fee. This service includes providing Mr K with annual reviews, 
where his investments are rebalanced in accordance with his objectives and risk appetite. 
In 2021 Mr K discovered that his pension and ISA had not been rebalanced since the review 
that had been carried out in September 2018. Mr K complained about this and also 
complained about the recommendations DM had made in the October 2021 review, which 
involved changing from F to a new provider, A. Mrs K made an identical complaint which is 
the subject of a separate complaint with our Service.
DM told Mr K it had shared its recommendations following the reviews in October 2019 and 
October 2020 with him by email. It said the emails had made it clear that Mr K needed to 
respond in order for the changes to be made and as DM hadnt received a response, the 
changes were not implemented. But in any event, it assured Mr K that he had not suffered a 
financial loss because his pension and ISA had experienced higher growth as a result of not 
being rebalanced in 2019 or 2020. DM explained the reasons for the recommended change 
of provider but said Mr K didnt have to accept this.
Mr K referred his complaint to our Service. He said he had agreed to DMs recommendations 
in the meetings so had assumed that the changes would be implemented. He also thought 
that DM shouldve chased him for a response or drawn it to his attention in the 2020 review. 
He said DM had admitted that its process of asking for confirmation had also caused issues 
with other clients. Mr K also questioned whether he had suffered a loss. Mr K remained 
unhappy with the recommendations made in 2021, which would also involve moving to 
quarterly reviews at an increased cost. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that DM had made it clear to 
Mr K that he needed to respond to the emails in order for the recommendations to be 
implemented. And that no action would be taken if he didnt respond. Nevertheless he 
thought DM had demonstrated that Mr K had not suffered a loss. The investigator thought 
DMs recommendations in 2021 were reasonable. As Mr K disagreed, the complaint was 
referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Mr K suggests that DM asking him to confirm the changes to his pension and ISA 
investments before they were made was a departure from the previous process. But Ive 
seen evidence that he was asked to respond to the email sent to him following the 
September 2018 review, which set out the proposed changes. Mr K responded to this, so the 
changes went ahead. And Im satisfied the same process was employed following the 
reviews in October 2019 and 2020. Ive seen copies of the emails sent to him, which clearly 
set out that Mr K needed to respond to the email in order for the changes to take place. And 
the emails also clearly explained that if no response was received by the deadline, DM 
would assume that Mr K did not wish to proceed. This statement was in bold so as to draw 
attention to it.
I appreciate that Mr K feels he had already agreed to DMs recommendations in the 
meetings. But I would expect DM to provide him with its recommendations in writing, along 
with any other literature to ensure that he had all the necessary information to make an 
informed decision. And in any event, the emails made it clear that Mr K was required to 
respond in order for the recommendations to be implemented. I understand why Mr K feels 
DM shouldve chased him for a response, but I dont think it was unreasonable that it didnt 
do so. DM made it clear that if no response was received it would assume that Mr K didnt 
wish to proceed. And I dont think the process it employed here was unfair or unreasonable 
given the number of clients DM would likely be dealing with at any one time.
I can understand why Mr K was surprised to hear in 2021 that his pension and ISA 
investments hadnt been rebalanced since 2018. He says he wouldve expected this to come 
up before then, given the amount of contact he had with DM in between. But I think DM was 
entitled to believe that Mr K had chosen not to proceed with the recommendations at the 
time. 
DM told Mr K that in any event he hadnt suffered a loss as a result of his portfolios not being 
rebalanced in 2019 or 2020. Mr K wants reassurance that this is the case; he says that our 
Service should carry out our own exercise to ensure he hasnt been disadvantaged. But as 
Ive explained above, I dont think DM has done anything wrong here. So, even if Mr K 
wouldve been better off if his pension and ISA investments had been rebalanced in 2019 
and 2020, I wouldnt be asking DM to compensate him for this. So, I wont be checking the 
calculations.
Mr K has said DM admitted that other clients had been affected by its process of requiring 
email confirmation and that this demonstrates the process isnt fit for purpose. I accept that 
DM has said it started to recommend that clients instead use a Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM), which would mean that email confirmation isnt required. But that is because using a 
DFM is an entirely different service proposition to the ongoing advice DM would provide. A 
DFM is a separate company charging separate fees that provides active investment 
management  the DFM makes the investment decisions, so little input is required from 
clients. In any event, I dont think that DM recommending Mr K (or other clients) use a DFM 
demonstrates that the process of asking for email confirmation before implementing its own 
investment recommendations isnt fit for purpose.  
Mr K remains unhappy with the recommendations DM made following the October 2021 
review. He doesnt think that switching his pension and ISA from F to A was a suitable 
recommendation and he didnt think it was appropriate to recommend a move to quarterly 
reviews as this would increase costs.
I appreciate that Mr K had concerns with the recommendations made, but I dont think they 
were unreasonable or unsuitable.DM recommended that Mr K switch his pension and ISA to A because the platform charge 
was lower, and the adviser considered it to be user-friendly and it offered him the possibility 
of having a flexi-ISA, which had tax advantages. Although Mr Ks own research didnt identify 
A as a better alternative to F, I dont think it was an unsuitable recommendation. 
Furthermore, Mr K was free to reject the recommendation and I understand he opted to stay 
with F.
DM recommended that Mr K use a DFM, and as a result hed receive quarterly updates from 
DM. DM recommended this because of the size of his funds, because it thought Mr K could 
benefit from the expertise the DFM provided and because of the active management, which 
would require less input from him. Again, I dont think this was an unreasonable 
recommendation, despite the increased costs  the aim was to produce better performance 
with less administration and input from Mr K. So, I think it wouldve met his needs. Again, Mr 
K was free to turn this down if he didnt want to pay the extra costs for this service.
Overall, I dont think DM treated Mr K unfairly or gave him unsuitable recommendations. So, 
Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman