DRN-3541464
The complaint
Mr I complains about the quality of a car supplied by Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
What happened
In February 2020 Moneybarn supplied Mr I with a used car under a conditional sale 
agreement. The car was approximately four years old and had completed just over 50,000 
miles. The cash price was £13,980, with an advance payment of £460.55. Mr I agreed to 
repay £455.82 a month over a period of 60 months.
Mr I said he had ongoing issues with the diesel exhaust fluid (DEF) system, where the car 
seized and had to be recovered. He also says he noticed the engine was noisy when he first 
got it but thought this was how a diesel car was supposed to sound, he suspects this was 
related to the timing chain issue that was later identified. Mr I complained to Moneybarn, he 
wanted the car repaired, a refund of the money spent on repairs and compensation.  
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Is complaint, it said Mr I hadnt raised any issues with the car 
until after six months, so it was his responsibility to prove the issues had been either 
developing or present at the point of supply. It also said the rattling timing chain would be a 
wear and tear issue rather than a fault.
Mr I brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators said Mr I had reported 
concerns about the car within the first four months to a garage. In the absence of any 
evidence from Moneybarn, she thought the DEF and timing chain issues were more likely to 
be faults present at the point of sale. She recommended Moneybarn collect the car and 
repair it, refund Mr I 25% of his monthly instalments to reflect his loss of enjoyment, 
reimburse him the cost of repairs, pay him £400 and remove two months arrears from his 
account.
Mr I said the car seized again in January 2021, he now wanted to reject it. Moneybarn said it 
would carry out an independent inspection to ascertain whether there were any faults 
present or developing at the point of sale. An independent report completed in February 
2022 concluded the car wasnt drivable, but that the DEF and timing chain issues would not 
have been present or developing at the point of supply. 
We also asked the garage who had recovered the car and completed repairs for more 
information. The garage explained the DEF, also known as AdBlue needed to be topped up 
and maintained. AdBlue helps reduce emissions and the car is programmed not to restart 
once the AdBlue levels are low. It said Mr I had not been correctly maintaining the AdBlue, 
which caused the car not to restart and it had to carry out resets and cleans.
Another investigator looked at everything, based on the information from the garage and 
the independent engineer she thought the reported AdBlue and timing chain issues were 
maintenance issues rather than faults. She didnt recommend the complaint was upheld.
Mr I disagreed, in summary he said the AdBlue warning message on the dashboard 
would stop counting down the mileage until no restarts, to the message no restarts soon, 
he said this was dangerous as he was unable to tell when the engine would stop. The 
complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered the whole 
file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr I is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint about 
its quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking 
into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here the car wasnt new, being four years old and with a mileage of just over 50,000. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect that issues with wear and tear, maintenance and 
repair would arise over time. So, unlike a brand-new car, there wouldnt be an expectation 
that the car would be fault free.
AdBlue issues
Mr I says he has had ongoing issues with the AdBlue system. He says the warning on the 
dash initially counts down the mileage, before the car will not restart, but then it flips to car 
will not restart soon, leaving him unsure of when the car will not be able to restart. He also 
says the warning light incorrectly states incorrect DEF quality detected, when the correct 
AdBlue has been used. Mr I says the AdBlue light came on in June 2020, the car later 
seized and this has happened on three separate occasions.
Ive looked at the invoice dated 29 June 2020, I can see the car was recovered, diagnostics 
completed, the AdBlue system reset and the injector cleaned. In October 2020 Mr I took the 
car back to a garage, as the AdBlue warning light had come back on. The invoice shows the 
AdBlue system was reset, and Mr I was advised to drive between 20-40 minutes to ensure 
the warning light disappeared. Another invoice in May 2021 shows Mr I returned the car to 
the garage for maintenance, the AdBlue was refilled, the AdBlue system was reset, tyre 
pressure reset, and windscreen washer refilled. Mr I tells us the AdBlue warning light came 
on again and the car seized again in January 2022.
In February 2022 the independent assessor said the car could not start and the warning 
light displayed the message no engine restart possible incorrect exhaust fluid quality 
detected NOX/cat reductant NOX forced engine shutdown. The report concluded this 
fault would not have been present or developing at the point of supply.
 
We spoke to the warranty garage who initially looked at Mr Is car, it explained that vehicle 
manufacturers are legally obliged to make sure their vehicles limit the emission of harmful 
gases and particulates. AdBlue is not physically required to run an engine but running an engine without it will cause the vehicle emissions to exceed whats legally permitted, so 
newer diesel vehicles are programmed to refuse to start if it runs out. 
The garage advised that even if you top up the AdBlue, some systems will still need the 
system purging and/ or resetting if the AdBlue levels are allowed to get too low or run out 
completely. Even slightly low AdBlue levels will cause the vehicle to continue counting down 
to the point it will refuse to start, even after being topped up. Which will mean the vehicle will 
need to be recovered if the vehicle refuses to start. The garage explained that AdBlue needs 
to be regularly topped up, just like fuel or oil and shouldnt be allowed to go too low.
The garage explained Mr I contacted it on 4 June 2020 to advise the AdBlue warning light 
had come on and was saying he had 400 miles before the engine would not restart. Mr I 
ignored this and continued to drive, allowing the AdBlue level to run too low before re-filing, 
as a result the engine would not restart and the car had to be recovered on 29 June 2020. 
The garage said Mr I had overfilled the AdBlue tank, which had to be drained, cleaned and 
the system reset. It also noted AdBlue had crystalized on the injector, so this was cleaned. 
The garage was of the view that the AdBlue issues were not related to a fault, but due to Mr I 
allowing the AdBlue levels to run too low and advised the cleaning of the injector was normal 
maintenance for cars with an AdBlue system. The garage told us the warning light would flip 
from counting down the mileage counter to a no restarts soon message, when the AdBlue 
levels are too low for the sensor to pick up and advised the incorrect DEF quality message 
was likely to be due to AdBlue overfilling or the AdBlue crystalizing on the injector.
Based on the evidence provided, Im not satisfied that the AdBlue issues previously 
experienced or the current AdBlue issue is a result of a fault, that was present or developing 
at the point of sale, but think it is more likely to be a maintenance issue.
Timing chain
Mr I says he noticed the car was noisy when he took delivery of it, and says this was linked 
to a fault with the timing chain which later failed. The invoice dated June 2020 states rattling 
timing chain as an advisory. The garage said it recommended Mr I take the car back to the 
dealership to look at this. Mr I told us he didnt do this, as he expected the dealership to 
contact him about it. But I cant see how the dealership would be aware of this unless Mr I 
got in touch with it.
The independent assessor concluded the timing chain deterioration when present in the 
early stages of failure produces abnormal noise and is a well-documented issue. The 
deterioration of the timing chain is not uncommon at 72,000 miles and often produces 
abnormal noises. If the condition is left for a period of time, the timing chain can suffer 
fatigue failure. This can lead to consequential damage and also could be the reason for the 
engine not starting, along with the DEF fluid issue.
The engineer went on to explain why he didnt consider the timing chain failure to be present 
at the point of supply. He said it is reasonable from an engineering perspective to consider 
that the condition is the result of wear and deterioration. This would be commensurate with 
the cars age and recorded mileage. Although such a condition is progressive in 
development, the condition would not have been present at the point of sale
taking into consideration the car had covered over 22,000 miles. Had the condition been 
present at the point of sale with regards to the AdBlue/DEF issues or the timing chain issue, 
it would have been noted within 2,000 miles of use. Mr Is car was four years old and had covered over 50,000 miles when he got it. The car had 
covered 72,000 miles before the timing chain failure, so I think Its more likely, given the age 
and mileage of the car, that the fault occurred due to general wear and tear and rather than 
a fault. 
For me to uphold Mr Is complaint I must be satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to him. Taking into account the independent assessors conclusions, 
the repair history and the view of the garage, I cant reasonably find the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr I and have no grounds to ask Moneybarn to 
accept his rejection of the car.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman