DRN-3934185
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money provided poor customer 
service when she tried to open an account with a better rate of interest.  
What happened
Miss C went into a Virgin Money branch to discuss opening a savings account with a better 
rate of interest on 9 May 2022. She was interest in a Virgin Money individual savings 
account (ISA) but was told shed to have a phone call with another branch to run through the 
terms and conditions before it could be opened. A call was arranged for 11 May, but Miss C 
says she never received one.
Miss C went into a Virgin Money branch again on 12 May and was told the phone call 
request had not been put through properly. They apologised and set up a new appointment 
for 16 May. She was advised to come back into the branch on that date and they would have 
the appropriate forms ready for her to sign. However, when Miss C went into the branch, the 
staff were unaware of the meeting and Miss C left without opening an ISA. Eventually she 
went to another bank and opened an ISA at 1.5% interest on 18 May 2022.
It took Virgin Money some time to look into Miss Cs complaint in detail and they issued a 
final response letter on 20 October 2022. In this, they acknowledged the errors they made 
when Miss C tried to open the savings account and offered her £100 compensation in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. They also included interest Miss C 
missed out on when she was unable to open an ISA on her first visit on 9 May and paid it up 
to when she opening the account with the other bank. This totalled £5.53.
Miss C referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. The 
Investigator felt that the offer put forward by Virgin Money was fair in the circumstances so 
they did not agree it needed to be increased. Miss C disagreed with this and said the 
Investigator had not acknowledged the poor customer service provided by Virgin Money, or 
the time taken to respond to her complaint. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the offer already paid by Virgin Money for £105.53 is fair and is 
in line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more 
detail.
Both parties accept that Virgin Money made a series of errors that led to Miss C deciding to 
open an ISA elsewhere, nine days after she started the process with Virgin Money. Firstly, 
Miss C did not receive a call as promised on 11 May meaning she had to visit the branch a 
second time. Following this, a new appointment was arranged for 16 May but the member of 
staff did not enter this in the stores diary so when Miss C arrived, the staff were unaware of 
the appointment. 
Ive taken into consideration the unnecessary branch visits Miss C had to make, as well as 
the delay in Miss C opening an ISA of around a week. Having done so, had this complaint 
come to me with no previous offer of compensation, I would have recommended around 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C. So I think the offer already made 
and paid to Miss C is fair in the circumstances. In addition, Virgin Money have paid Miss C 
the interest she lost out on as a result of the ISA not being opened promptly totalling £5.53, 
which is what I would have expected them to do in the circumstances. 
Im aware Miss C is unhappy with this outcome and she has said she feel our service are 
condoning Virgin Moneys poor customer service by not upholding the complaint. While I 
understand Miss Cs strength of feeling, it should be noted that our compensation awards 
are not meant to be punitive on the business and instead should reflect the impact the errors 
have had on a consumer, in this case, Miss C. And Ive explained above why I feel the offer 
already paid does reflect the impact caused in this case. So, I dont recommend an increase 
to what has already been paid. 
My final decision
I think the redress already paid to Miss C of £105.53 is fair in the circumstances and I do not 
direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to increase this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman