DRN-3650910
The complaint
Mr C complains that St James Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt communicate its 
fees in relation to a drawdown arrangement in a transparent manner.
Mr Cs interactions were mainly with a partner of SJP. But as SJP is ultimately responsible, 
all actions will be noted as SJPs. 
What happened
Mr C sought retirement advice from SJP around 2016. According to what was noted at the 
time, Mr C was looking to maximise his retirement planning. He was around 58 years old  
and wasnt expecting to retire until around age 75. 
In a suitability report prepared in January 2016 SJP noted that Mr Cs overarching objective 
was to achieve as much capital growth as possible. SJP recommended that Mr C transfer 
two existing personal pensions into one of its retirement plans and make regular 
contributions into that plan. Amongst other details included, it said that by the time Mr C 
reached his preferred retirement age of 75 he might expect to receive an annual pension of 
between about £26,000 and £63,000 a year depending on investment performance. Or hed 
have the option at that time to take a reduced pension and a tax-free cash lump sum. SJP 
also noted that it gave Mr C a key facts document setting out its services and costs. It added 
that Mr Cs account would be subject to regular reviews, focussed on the investments and 
contribution levels. SJP charged Mr C a fee for those ongoing reviews.
Mr C contacted SJP in November 2020 to discuss his updated requirements as his 
circumstances had changed. SJP produced a suitability report noting Mr Cs priorities at that 
point were to:
Semi-retire and take the maximum 25% tax-free cash available. SJP noted that it and 
Mr C had discussed other ways of funding his objective, such as selling property or 
using cash deposits he also held. Those had been discounted, not least because Mr 
C was intending to use his cash to fund building a property. 
Leave his remaining fund invested until he decided to take an income - although he 
still wanted to benefit from growth in the markets and the available tax benefits, 
especially as he was unlikely to draw an income until his preferred retirement age of 
75. 
SJP recommended that Mr C crystallise his fund via a drawdown arrangement, so that he 
could take the maximum tax-free cash he was looking for. It also recommended an annual 
review of the drawdown arrangement.
Mr Cs indicated that he only found out SJP would charge 2% of the fund value for its 
additional advice (around £7,000 according to SJPs report) after hed already decided he 
needed to take his tax-free cash. Although from what hes also said, its apparent he knew 
about the fee before he met SJP in late 2020 to discuss its advice. SJPs also referred to the 
fee in its November 2020 suitability report. Mr C maintains that this wasnt made clear in any 
of the terms and conditions, or schedule of chargeable fees, that SJP gave him upfront.
Mr C apparently told SJP that he was willing to pay a fee but expected it to be reduced 
compared to what was quoted. SJP didnt agree, not least because the advice it gave Mr C 
in relation to the drawdown was separate to the initial advice given and related to a new 
product and requirements. Therefore, it felt it was entitled to charge a fee for that work and 
expertise. It also reminded Mr C that he had the option of going to another business if he 
wanted to. But Mr C wasnt apparently looking to do that. 
Mr C later formally complained to SJP about all of this. In a complaint response in October 
2021, it said there is no regulatory requirement to provide information about fees relating to 
services that are not being recommended at the time. However, it referred to a key facts 
document, which mentions that when consumers decide to take benefits from their pensions, 
they may agree a fee with the adviser for the advice given at that time. It also said that the 
charge will typically be 2% of the fund value. SJP added that despite what Mr C had alleged, 
it had discussed and discounted alternatives to taking the tax-free cash in 2020.
Mr C didnt agree with SJPs response and maintained that he wasnt told there would be a 
2% fee if he sought advice in relation to taking his tax-free cash. He also suggested that 
taking this cash was part of the original pension plan. 
Mr C complained to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and 
didnt uphold it. She explained that SJP wasnt required to highlight all fees  just those 
relevant to the advice being given at the time. In any event, she was satisfied that SJP had 
disclosed the fee in a key facts document given in 2016 when the initial advice was given. 
Mr C again disputed that the key facts document was given to him during the initial advice 
process. As Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint was referred to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs made a number of comments in support of his complaint. I dont propose to address 
all of those individually, but I will refer to those that I believe go to the heart of Mr Cs 
complaint and that are relevant to the findings Ive reached.
Mr C believes very strongly that SJP hasnt been transparent when communicating its fees. 
And whilst he says hes not opposed to paying a fee per se, he clearly believes that SJP is 
charging an unreasonable amount. 
Having thought very carefully about this complaint, Im not going to uphold it. I know that this 
will probably come as very disappointing news to Mr C, so I hope my detailed reasoning 
below is helpful to his understanding about why Ive reached this decision.
I need to make clear at the outset though that its not for me to tell SJP whether it should 
charge a fee and at what level that fee should be set. Thats entirely a matter for SJP to 
decide. However, part of my role is to decide whether SJP went about things in a fair, clear 
and not misleading way when communicating the fees it would charge for its services.
When Mr C first met SJP around 2016 he was looking for advice about maximising his 
retirement provision in a tax efficient way. He was about 16 years or so off his intended 
retirement age at that point, so SJPs advice was geared towards enabling his pension pot to 
grow as much as possible by the time he retired. Theres nothing documented to suggest 
that Mr C was looking to take tax-free cash any time soon  or even when he retired for that 
matter. 
And contrary to what Mr C seems to suggest, it doesnt automatically follow that a pension 
holder will take their tax-free cash in retirement  some dont. So, simply because the 2016 
illustration mentions his tax-free entitlement in retirement doesnt mean that SJP ought to have known its something Mr C would opt to take at a later date. For that reason, bearing in 
mind the purpose of the advice in 2016, I dont think it was necessary or reasonable to 
expect SJP to notify Mr C in advance about a fee for another service that may or may not be 
needed. And theres no suggestion that Mr C wasnt given fees information relevant to the 
initial advice he had sought. 
I think Mr C is also perhaps mistaken about what the 2016 illustration was intended to show. 
It was an illustration of the amounts that Mr C might expect to receive when he reached his 
expected retirement age. Either by way of a full pension, or a reduced pension with a tax-
free cash lump sum. Referencing tax-free cash didnt mean that SJP should have predicted 
that Mr C would opt to take that, or that it should be seen as a natural turn of events. So, 
again, I cant see that it was necessary to mention a fee that might become due in the future 
if Mr C decided he needed to change his retirement strategy earlier and seek further advice 
from SJP. 
When circumstances changed and Mr C decided he would need to take further advice and 
his tax-free cash, I also dont agree with the suggestion that any fees that became due 
should be part of those charged at the outset (on the basis that what happened was part of 
the original pension plan). Thats because I dont agree that the two events were linked. 
The 2016 discussions were about retirement planning and how Mr C might maximise his 
retirement income. And at that time Mr C didnt anticipate accessing those funds for a further 
16 years. So, all of the advice SJP gave was geared towards that, with a long-term 
investment strategy in mind. Whereas in 2020, the advice was about how Mr C could best 
achieve his aims of taking semi-retirement  including whether he had other means to fund 
his needs without having to access his pension - and how to best invest the remaining fund. 
Im satisfied that was separate and distinct from the advice Mr C sought in 2016. 
Ive also thought about whether the additional advice Mr C sought in 2020 should have been 
covered by the fee Mr C paid each year for his ongoing reviews. But I wasnt persuaded it 
should have been. I say that because looking at the terms of service it agreed with Mr C 
upfront, SJP said its ongoing charge would relate to the investments and contribution levels. 
In other words, SJP appeared to be charging Mr C to ensure the investments within his 
retirement plan where performing to a reasonable level and met with his attitude to risk. Also, 
that he was making appropriate contribution levels in order to make sure they still helped to 
achieve his investment aims. 
But, the fee SJP charged Mr C in 2020 was for an entirely different service to his ongoing 
review. At that point, his circumstances and investment aims had changed. He wanted to 
have access to his funds and a strategy that met his changed circumstances. So, rather than 
simply reviewing his ongoing existing investments, which was the service Mr C was paying 
for, instead SJP had to re-examine Mr Cs entire investment strategy afresh. In doing so it 
looked at the options that were open to him and produced a suitability report to set out those 
options and recommendations. That was a significant piece of work and not something that 
would generally be considered to fall under the umbrella of an ongoing review. So, as far as I 
can see the fee that SJP charged related to a completely different set of circumstances; 
advice and investment product. And in those circumstances, I think it was reasonable that 
SJP would want to charge a fee to reflect the work that it did. 
Having said all of that, I dont agree that SJP did explain things in the manner that its 
suggested. Its referred to wording from a key facts document that it didnt produce until 
February 2016. But SJP sent Mr C its suitability letter in January 2016. So, its more likely it 
sent him a previous version of the key facts, which doesnt mention the possibility of an 
additional fee if a consumer decides to take their benefits or transfer into a different SJP 
plan. So, I dont think SJP did tell Mr C at the outset that he might have to pay an extra fee 
should he want an additional service.But that doesnt mean SJP acted with a lack of transparency. Ive already said that I dont 
think SJP was required to inform its clients about all of the fees that might become payable 
for the various services it offered. Thats particularly the case when it can't be sure what 
services a consumer might wish to use or at what point they might wish to access those 
services. Not least because, when SJP gave Mr C advice I dont think it could have known 
that he would wish to divert from a 16-year investment strategy to a different one only four 
years later. Also, its not unusual for firms like SJP to regularly review their fees and charging 
structure over time. So, its possible that even if it had mentioned a fee upfront, it might have 
changed in any event. It follows that I don't think SJP did anything wrong by not making Mr C 
aware in 2016 of fees that might become payable at a later date for a separate service. 
I fully appreciate Mr Cs very strong feelings on the matter. But, irrespective of whether he 
was or wasnt given the information hed have expected around 2016, he knew about the 
fees at the point at which he took further advice in late 2020. And he went ahead with SJPs 
advice and the new pension arrangements in any event. Mr C himself confirms that he had 
no intention of approaching another business (whose fees might have been more 
favourable) which was an option that SJP mentioned during the discussions that followed.
Taking account of everything Ive said, I dont think SJP has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman