DRN-2535053
The complaint
 Mrs C and Mr F complain that Connells Limited will charge them an administration fee for 
providing mortgage services even though they paid a lifetime broker fee.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2018, when selling their property through an estate agents, Mrs C and Mr F used Connells 
as their mortgage broker. Mrs C and Mr F paid a £499 lifetime fee which meant they wouldnt 
have to pay Connells for using their mortgage and protection services again in the future. A 
£99 administration charge was also paid by Mrs C and Mr F at this time. 
In 2020 Mrs C and Mr Fs original mortgage deal was due to expire soon and so contacted 
Connells to arrange a new deal. Connells explained that a £99 administration fee was 
payable for this mortgage service, and that it would payable every time the service was used 
going forward.
Mrs C and Mr F complained about the administration fee and said they werent made aware 
theyd have to pay any further fees for using Connells mortgage services. They thought 
theyd been mis-led into purchasing the lifetime broker service as, had the administration fee 
for future mortgage services been made clear to them, they wouldnt have gone ahead with 
it. So, Mrs C and Mr F didnt use Connells for their re-mortgage but arranged it with their 
mortgage provider directly.  
Connells didnt uphold the complaint and confirmed the £99 administration fee is charged in 
addition to the lifetime broker fee and is payable on all cases. They explained that the 
administration fee is for a dedicated member of their mortgage business unit to complete all 
the administrative aspects of the mortgage application and to progress it all the way through 
to the point of completion. Connells also said Mrs C and Mr F signed the customer 
declaration which advised them of the fees as well as being provided a combined initial 
disclosure document that set out their terms of business. So, they didnt agree Mrs C and Mr 
F hadnt been made aware of the fees payable.
Mrs C and Mr F referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Connells 
hadnt made it sufficiently clear to them that the administration fee would be payable with 
every future mortgage application. And so, as Connells confirmed they didnt offer a one-
time mortgage service fee option, he recommended Connells refund half of the overall fees 
paid (£299). This was because, while Mrs C and Mr F wouldnt be using Connells for future 
mortgage services, they did benefit from it in 2018  so he didnt think it was fair for the fees 
to be refunded in full. 
Connells disagreed as they considered Mrs C and Mr F were provided sufficient information 
regarding their fee structure in 2018. The matter has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs C and Mr F agreed to pay the administration fee for the mortgage 
services they received in 2018. However, they say they werent made aware this fee would 
be chargeable when using such services again  as happened when re-mortgaging in 2020.
Ive firstly considered the product literature that was made available to Mrs C and Mr F 
before they paid the lifetime broker fee for Connells services. The customer declaration 
form, which they signed and agreed to, says:
FEES AND PAYMENT AUTHORITY
£99 Administration Fee
Payable on submission of your mortgage application.
Non-refundable.
In the event that you lose the property that you wish to purchase, the 
Administration Fee can be transferred to a new property within 6 months of 
original payment. 
The above only refers to one administration fee payable and doesnt indicate whether further 
fees will apply for future services. 
A key information on our mortgage and protection services document, which Mrs C and 
Mr F deny receiving at the time, says:
WHAT WILL YOU HAVE TO PAY FOR OUR SERVICES?
A lifetime transaction fee of £499 is payable with your mortgage application form. 
This is payable just once, no matter how many times you move or remortgage your 
existing property using our services. 
We will also receive commission from the lender that we place your mortgage with. 
On request we can provide you with a full list of our panel lender commission.
In addition, you will be required to pay an Administration Fee of £99 with the 
mortgage application.
If we charge you fees, and your mortgage does not go ahead, these fees are 
non-refundable. However, if you make a new application within six months of 
your initial payment, you will not be charged a further administration fee.
Although the above sets out there is an administration fee for the mortgage application, I 
dont think its sufficiently clear the fee is also payable for future mortgage and protection 
services Connells provide. 
Connells however have said that, in 2018, their consultant completed a verbal disclosure to 
Mrs C and Mr F which outlined the fees payable for their services. The relevant part of this 
disclosure says:
For our Lifetime Mortgage Service we charge a fee of [£499]. In addition, for the 
services we offer in relation to the administration of your mortgage and/or insurance, 
we charge a fee of £99 for Residential applications, £149 for Buy To Let applications 
 this fee applies to Product Transfers too. Both fees are payable on application and 
are non-refundable. As I wasnt present at the time, I cant be sure what was discussed between the consultant 
and Mrs C and Mr F. That said, although I think the above verbal disclosure could be 
interpreted that future mortgages services provided incur the administration fee, I likewise 
dont think it is sufficiently clear. I also consider Mrs C and Mr Fs testimony persuasive in 
that theyve consistently said that they were told by the consultant no further fees would be 
payable. This is supported, in my view, by their actions of arranging the re-mortgage with the 
mortgage provider directly in 2020 rather than using Connells (and paying the administration 
fee) when they were told otherwise. 
Connells has however provided an example of a factsheet they say wouldve been provided 
to Mrs C and Mr F with their lifetime membership card, and which explained the benefits it 
offered. I havent seen anything to evidence this factsheet, or one of a similar nature, was 
received by Mrs C and Mr F. But the factsheet does clearly say please note an 
administration fee will still apply on all mortgage applications. 
Ive given this factsheet careful consideration but while it does say the administration fee is 
applicable on all mortgage applications (services), Im not persuaded - in these particular 
circumstances - that its enough for me to fairly conclude Mrs C and Mr F were sufficiently 
informed of this at the time they agreed to, and paid for, the lifetime broker service. Ill 
explain why.
I understand this factsheet, if provided, wouldve been received by Mrs C and Mr F after they 
paid the lifetime broker fee. But, as Ive explained above, I havent seen anything to show 
they were told before this that the administration fee is also payable for future mortgage and 
protection services Connells provide. I think its likely Mrs C and Mr F wouldve relied heavily 
on the information provided to them before, and at the point, of agreeing to this service. I 
also consider a recurring £99 fee is an important consideration when deciding whether to 
sign up for a lifetime service, so it shouldve been given appropriate prominence and thereby 
brought clearly to their attention. Given I find Mrs C and Mr Fs testimony persuasive, as well 
as their actions of not using Connells for their re-mortgage in 2020, I think its most likely 
they wouldnt have agreed to the lifetime broker service had they known of the £99 
administration fee for future mortgage services. 
Ive therefore considered what Connells should do to put things right. 
Connells has confirmed a one-time mortgage service fee option wasnt available to Mrs C 
and Mr F. However, as our investigator explained, Mrs C and Mr F did benefit from the 
service they received in 2018. So, I dont think it would be fair for the fees paid to be fully 
refunded. Its unclear how much value Mrs C and Mr F received from the service in 2018 or 
what they wouldve paid for this if they had used an alternative broker. But, while this may 
not put them back in the exact position they wouldve been in, I think a fair resolution to this 
complaint is for Connells to refund £299 of the fees paid. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Connells Limited to pay Mrs C and 
Mr F £299.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman