DRN-1240218
Complaint
Miss O says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
her with a number of instalment loans.                           
Background
This complaint is about ten high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny provided 
to Miss O between September 2017 and February 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Os complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been 
provided with loans 5 to 10. Sunny didnt agree in full. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss O, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss O was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in 
a sustainable manner when it provided Miss O with loan 5. I say this because Miss O exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans not too 
long after repaying previous ones. Indeed on some occasions further loans were taken out 
even before previous ones had been repaid. 
Sunny continued lending to Miss O even when this pattern was repeated and in 
circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more 
likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Miss O had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss O paid on loans 5 to 8 and loan 9;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges applied to loans 7 and 10 from the outset. The 
payments Miss O made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. In 
other words Sunny should ensure that Miss O pays no more that the £650 she was 
initially lent for these loans. If after all adjustments have been made outstanding 
balances remain on these loans these can be deducted from the compensation 
Sunny now needs to pay Miss O;
 
any adverse information regarding loan 5 should be removed from Miss Os credit 
file. The number of loans provided means that any information recorded about loans 
6 to 10 is adverse. So all reference to loans 6 to 10 should be removed from Miss Os 
credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Os complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman