DRN-2483056
The complaint
Mr B complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out two loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date taken Date Paid Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
payable
1 17/04/2018 25/10/2018 £250 18 £56.64 £1,019.52
2 04/04/2019 12/12/2019 £350 18 £79.99 £1,439.82
Mr B brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. 
In summary, Mr B didnt think that Loans 2 Go had lent to him responsibly at a time when he 
was already struggling financially and in a cycle of debt.  He also felt that the interest 
charged on these loans added unfairly and unreasonably to his repayment problems. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator thought that the information Loans 2 Go gathered about Mr Bs financial 
situation, which included a credit report, shouldve prompted Loans 2 Go to do more to 
check his financial situation  and had it done so, it shouldve found out that it was unlikely 
Mr B would be able to sustainably repay these loans. 
Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what Loans 2 Go needed to do to put things 
right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that both Mr Bs credit 
reports showed he had settled many accounts and his payments were up to date with only 
one credit card in arrears. So it said it had no reason to ask for further information and 
conduct extra checks as it had determined that Mr B was managing his finances. 
It also relied on the fact that Mr B had settled the first loan in 6 months and he hadnt ever 
informed Loans 2 Go that he was suffering financially to support its view that Mr B had 
sufficient spare funds to make the contractual payments as well as settle the loan early.
Loans 2 Go asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website 
and Ive followed it here. Like our adjudicator, I dont think Loans 2 Go shouldve 
provided these loans. Ill explain why I say this.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 Go 
relied on when it decided to lend to Mr B. 
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go asked Mr B about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and 
it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that Loans 2 Go relied on 
when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr B. 
Loans 2 Go used an online income verification tool which indicated that his minimum 
monthly take home pay would be at least £1,286.72. Loans 2 Go worked out that Mr Bs 
regular monthly expenditure, including his spending on other credit it saw on the credit 
checks it carried out, left him with around £80 each month after it allowed a buffer of 10% of 
his declared income to cover any fluctuations in his monthly income or spending.
So Loans 2 Go felt that the monthly repayments of £56.64 he would be making on this loan 
were affordable for Mr B.
But I think that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that Mr B was just over his limit on 
a credit card (the balance was £5,675) and one payment in arrears on the account. He was 
effectively using the whole of his overdraft limit on one bank account (£1,259) and he had 
just £150 available borrowing left on another bank account which offered an overdraft up to 
£1,000. He also had a second credit card just over the credit limit with a balance of £202 
outstanding.
So, although the loan mightve appeared affordable to Loans 2 Go, I think its fair to say all 
this information painted a picture of someone who was potentially struggling to manage 
money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mr B was experiencing 
financial difficulty. I think Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks before agreeing to provide loan 1 
to ensure that it had a proper understanding of Mr Bs financial situation. So, Ive looked at 
what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Mr B has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go 
was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting the lender should have necessarily asked to see Mr Bs bank statements. Loans 
2 Go could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to carry 
out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of other evidence, 
I think the bank statements Mr B has sent me give a reasonable insight into his finances at 
the time. 
And had Loans 2 Go done proportionate checking I think it would have seen enough to 
confirm the indications on his credit file that his finances were under stress. It wouldve seen 
that Mr B was struggling to manage his overdraft situation and he was relying on multiple 
loans taken out with other providers of high cost credit to boost his spending money  
despite this he was unable to maintain his current accounts in credit. And Loans 2 Go  is 
also likely to have found out that Mr B was spending significant amounts on online gambling 
transactions.
So I think Loans 2 Go shouldve seen enough, had it done a proportionate check, to realise 
that loan 1 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr B and so it shouldnt have 
provided it. For these reasons, I uphold the complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
I dont think the fact that Mr B repaid loan 1 early means that he was able to do so in a 
way that was sustainable or that the gap of around 5 months or so between Mr B paying 
loan 1 and taking out loan 2 was enough to provide any reassurance that loan 2 would be 
affordable for him. 
The information Loans 2 Go gathered about Mr Bs income and expenditure suggested 
that he would likely have very little surplus income to help him cover any unforeseen costs 
after making the monthly repayments on this loan  especially bearing in mind that he had 
signed up to make the contractual repayments for the next 18 months. And its credit 
checks showed he was now 6 payments in arrears on one of his credit cards (now shown 
as being more than £180 over the £5,5000 limit) and there was nothing to suggest Mr B 
had got on top of his overdraft  he was almost up to his £1,260 limit. 
In the circumstances I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Loans 2 Go 
to have done more before lending to Mr B to understand how loan 2 would impact on his 
financial situation  especially bearing in mind that there was no suggestion that he planned 
to use the loan to pay other debt, so it was reasonable to think he would be adding to his 
overall indebtedness.
If Loans 2 Go had sought a fuller picture of Mr Bs financial situation it wasnt likely to have 
been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for him. I think Loans 2 Go shouldve 
realised (as I can see from his bank statements) that Mr B wasnt managing his money 
effectively, he had become reliant on expensive forms of borrowing and was taking out 
multiple other high cost loans, his available credit had already been mostly used and he was 
dependent on obtaining new credit in order to fund his day to day costs. 
So Loans 2 Go wouldve seen that further borrowing was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided loan 2.And I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr B very quickly found himself unable to make 
the payments due on loan 2.
So for all these reasons, Im upholding his complaint about loan 2.  
Ive thought about what Mr B has said about the high cost of the loans. I think there was a 
very large amount of interest payable on these loans and I can appreciate that he might now 
feel this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that the loan agreements set out reasonably 
clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he would have to pay if the loans ran 
to term. And I think Mr B was aware he was taking very high cost loans on terms he seemed 
happy to agree to at the time. And I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go 
acted towards Mr B in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding 
any additional redress. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest and charges on 
loans that shouldnt have been provided to him. If Loans 2 Go sold any outstanding debt it 
should liaise with the debt owner(s) to achieve the results outlined below and do the 
following:
A) refund everything Mr B paid over the principal loan amounts and repay this to 
Mr B with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman