DRN-3433937
The complaint
Miss B complains about two loans provided to her by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which she says were unaffordable. 
What happened
ELL agreed two loans for Miss B between August 2017 and July 2019. Loan 2 was used to 
repay Loan 1. According to the most recent information Ive seen, Loan 2 hasnt been repaid. 
Some of the information ELL provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 26/8/2017 4/7/2019 £4,000 £206.37 48
2. 4/7/2019 Unpaid £5,000 £247.70 48
Miss B says that ELL was irresponsible in its lending and that it could see she was already in 
persistent debt when it lent to her. This led her to amass close to £40,000 in debt overall and 
has affected her health.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Miss Bs complaint be upheld. With regard to Loan 1, the 
investigator said that from the information ELL gathered, there were signs that Miss B 
wouldnt be able to afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. She was making 
repayments of at least £600 a month to her existing creditors including minimum repayments 
to credit card providers. And whilst Loan 1 was being used to consolidate some of Miss Bs 
existing debts, it didnt improve her financial circumstances because her overall 
indebtedness went up. So, the investigator thought that the checks ELL carried out 
demonstrated that Miss B would have been unlikely to be able to make her repayments 
sustainably.
With regard to Loan 2, the investigator said that there wasnt any persuasive evidence to 
suggest that there had been any significant and sustained improvement in Miss Bs financial
circumstances since taking out Loan 1. She wasnt persuaded that Loan 2 - which
only increased Miss Bs indebtedness when she was already struggling financially  was 
likely to have been deemed sustainable and affordable.
ELL responded to the investigators view by agreeing to uphold Miss Bs complaint about 
Loan 2. But it disagreed with the investigators recommendation that Loan 1 should be 
upheld. It said, in summary, that:-
- Its contact notes said that Miss B was using all of the proceeds of Loan 1 for debt 
consolidation. It agreed to pay two of her credit balances directly and the remaining 
money would be sent to Miss Bs account so that she could distribute the money to each 
of her chosen creditors. So, it didnt agree that it was increasing Miss Bs debt. It had no 
reason to doubt Miss Bs word that she was consolidating the debts shed told it about.
- Miss Bs credit report showed no cause for concern. There was a default, but it was 
historic from April 2014.
- Although Miss B might have been making minimum repayments on her credit cards, 
there were  large amounts of discretionary spending seen on her bank statements. The 
statements also showed no payday loans or overdraft usage. The evidence suggested 
Loan 1 was both affordable and sustainable.
Miss B didnt accept ELLs offer.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss B
and to ELL on 17 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
As ELL had agreed to uphold Loan 2, Id not investigated this loan. But Id included the 
redress for the loan in the redress section of the decision.
Id noted that when ELL lent Loan 1 to Miss B, the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). 
Its rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Miss B could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss B. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
- the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period);
Id noted that ELL had provided Miss B with Loan 1 for £4,000 in August 2017. The interest 
rate was 54%, (69.6% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 48 monthly repayments of 
£206.37. If Miss B made each payment when it was due, shed pay £9,905.76 in total.     
Miss B told the lender that the loan was to be used for debt consolidation. 
It appeared that ELL had met with Miss B at its office and gathered some information from 
her about her income and accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. Miss B said 
she lived with her parents and paid them no rent. She had no dependents. ELL also carried 
out a credit check and saw bank statements for Miss Bs main current account for a period of 
around six weeks. It noted (on its contact notes) that the majority of Miss Bs credit was at 
maximum, but that her bank account was well maintained, and she had no returned 
payments, no payday loans, and no gambling transactions. The contact notes said that ELL 
would settle two credit card balances directly (totalling £750.21). The balance of the loan 
(£3,249.79) would be paid to Miss B directly for her to distribute to each of her chosen 
creditors.
Miss B was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of four years. So, I thought it was right that ELL wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Bs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I thought that the checks Id described above 
allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Miss Bs finances and I thought that the checks ELL 
did were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
ELL used the lower of the two income amounts shown on Miss Bs bank statements which 
provided a net monthly income of £1,724.31. It used the results of its credit checks and other 
information to calculate Miss Bs credit commitments to be £598.35 (as shown on its 
affordability calculation form). Id noted that ELL used minimum repayment amounts to 
calculate Miss Bs monthly credit card repayments. But I didnt think this was reasonable. As 
ELL would be aware, making minimum repayments effectively extends credit card debt 
potentially for years and it adds very significantly to the long term cost of that credit. 
Repayments at that level are insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into card balances. 
ELL had estimated Miss Bs living costs to be £603.51 by calculating 35% of Miss Bs 
income and it said that her monthly disposable income after its loan repayment would be 
£372.47. But I thought in Miss Bs circumstances, it needed to tailor its assessment to     
Miss Bs actual financial situation.
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks and I could also see that the lender had made a list of   
Miss Bs credit commitments. Id noted that the list showed two loans which werent on its 
credit checks. So, ELL was aware that its credit checks might not provide a complete picture 
of Miss Bs credit commitments. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers 
credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might not necessarily 
be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies.Id noted that the credit checks showed that Miss B had two loans and eight credit cards with 
a total loans balance of £2,523 and a total credit cards balance of £5,091, making a total 
credit balance of £7,614. One of the loans on ELLs list had a balance of £2,100 and Miss B 
showed ELL evidence that the other loan on the list had been repaid. All of Miss Bs three 
loans were high cost loans. 
The credit checks showed that Miss B had opened six new credit accounts in the year before 
her loan application. Four of these were short term loans totalling £1,700 and the most 
recent loan for £600 had only been taken out around four months before the loan 
application. These four loans had been repaid. In addition, Miss B had borrowed a high cost 
loan for £2,000 and taken out a credit card in June 2017 which had a £244 balance. I didnt 
know when Miss B had taken out the £2,100 loan shown on ELLs list. Miss B was also using 
five other credit cards. Four of the card balances were approaching their respective credit 
limits and one balance was £16 over the cards credit limit. The credit checks also showed 
that Miss B had taken out at least ten payday loans in 2016.
Altogether I thought ELLs credit checks ought to have caused it concerns as Miss Bs 
finances appeared to be under pressure and suggested that Miss B was likely struggling to 
manage her money. This was shown on its credit checks by Miss Bs relatively recent need 
for a relatively high amount of credit as shown by at least five high cost (short and long term) 
loans taken out in the year before the loan application, four credit card accounts near their 
respective credit limits and one card account over its credit limit. I thought it would have 
been reasonable for ELL to conclude from its credit checks that despite the disposable 
income it had calculated, it was likely that Miss B was experiencing financial difficulties. So, I 
thought ELL needed to carefully scrutinise the bank statements it received from Miss B to 
check that she would be able to repay the loan sustainably over the term of 48 months.
Miss B told ELL she would be using the loan proceeds to consolidate some of her debts. Id 
noted that ELL was paying two of the credit cards balances (totalling £750.21) directly from 
the loan proceeds. The balance of the loan proceeds was paid to Miss B so that she could 
choose which creditors to pay. But I couldnt see from the information received from ELL that 
it had made consolidation of the other debts a condition of the loan. So, ELL wasnt in control 
of making sure Miss Bs other debts were repaid. And it couldnt have been sure it wasnt 
putting Miss B in a worse position by increasing her overall debt. In addition, Miss B would 
still have been left with a relatively large amount of debt to repay even if she did repay some 
of her debts with the loan proceeds. And she would be using a loan of £4,000 to repay those 
debts, but she would need around £9,900 to repay that loan over the loan term.  
I also thought the relatively recent high cost borrowing shown on the credit checks might 
have suggested that Miss B was having  problems managing her finances that a debt 
consolidation wouldnt have solved. Miss Bs need for credit appeared to be an ongoing one 
and her finances werent stable. In view of Miss Bs relatively recent need to borrow as 
shown in ELLs credit checks, I didnt think it could safely assume that Miss B wouldnt 
borrow again after shed received its loan. 
Id also reviewed the bank statements ELL saw for Miss Bs main current account. Whilst 
there were some notes on the statements that ELL appeared to have made about some of 
the transactions, it didnt seem that it had used the bank statements to verify its estimate of 
Miss Bs expenses. 
Id reviewed Miss Bs spending for July 2017 on the bank statements. Taking all of Miss Bs 
existing (and ongoing) financial commitments and reasonably identifiable spend on food and 
drink, travel and phone costs into account wouldnt have left her with sufficient disposable 
income to repay ELLs loan. The bank statements for July 2017 appeared to show that    Miss Bs living costs were over £1,000 and were higher than the amount it had estimated. I 
havent included in this figure the spending on the discretionary items referred to in ELLs 
response to the investigators view in my calculations. But I thought it would have been clear 
to ELL that Miss B was spending beyond her means. 
Id also noted from the statements that Miss Bs spending on credit commitments was 
around £683 and this figure didnt include repayments for two of her credit cards. Id 
appreciated that Miss Bs credit commitments after Loan 1 wouldnt include the repayments 
on the one loan which had been repaid and the two balances which ELL was repaying. But I 
could see that ELL still thought that Miss B would be repaying around £600 each month for 
credit commitments (excluding its loan repayment) after taking out its loan. And taking this 
figure into account, I couldnt see that ELL could be sure that Miss B would have anywhere 
near enough to make the loan repayments for the duration of the agreement. So, I thought 
there was a reasonable prospect of Miss B experiencing significant adverse consequences.
So, had ELL considered fully the information it had received, I thought ELL ought reasonably 
to have realised that Miss B was most likely over committed financially, that there were 
indications she was having difficulty managing her finances and it was likely she would need 
to borrow elsewhere to repay Loan 1. I thought ELL ought reasonably to have realised that it 
was unlikely that Miss B would have been able to sustainably repay Loan 1 over the           
48 months term. So, it should reasonably have concluded that it was unfair to lend Loan 1 to 
her.
I could see from ELLs credit checks on Loan 2 that Miss B had borrowed two payday loans 
totalling £600 within four months after Loan 1. I thought this was foreseeable.
Id noted that ELL had said in its final response letter that it believed the checks completed 
were reasonable and proportionate and that the loan was sustainable over the term of the 
loan as Miss B had disposable income. But it seemed to me that ELL was focussing on its 
calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Miss B on a pounds and pence basis. But 
the lender was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might have 
been an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt 
automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their 
repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss B or ELL, I said that I intended to uphold 
Miss Bs complaint about Loan 1 and that ELL should put things right for Miss B on Loans 1 
and 2 (which it had already agreed to uphold) as follows:- 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2, and that Loan 2 hasnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Miss B back into the position she would have been had                
Loans 1 and 2 not been agreed for her, ELL needs to ensure that Miss B only repays the 
total amount of money she received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2. So, ELL 
needs to:
1. Add up the total amount of money Miss B received as a result of having been given   
Loans 1 and 2. For the avoidance of doubt this added up amount should not include 
any interest, charges, document, or any other administration fees;2. The payments Miss B made to Loans 1 and 2 should be deducted from this amount;
3. Any payments made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds the amount of 
money Miss B was given should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Miss B;
4. Interest at 8% per year simple should be paid on any overpayments made, if they 
were, from the date they were paid by Miss B to the date of settlement;*
5. If the total amount of money paid by Miss B doesnt exceed the total amount of 
money she received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2 (and for the 
avoidance of doubt any outstanding balance shouldnt include any interest, charges 
and document or other administration fees), ELL should treat Miss B positively and 
sympathetically regarding repayment of the balance. This might mean agreeing a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan with her; and
6. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file as a result of           
Loans 1 and 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give    
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Miss B hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
ELL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time. 
Given that Miss B and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require ELL to take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things 
right - what ELL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right as Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman