DRN-4432568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) didnt pay their full 
claim for trace and access under their home insurance policy.
AIE use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to AIE includes 
these agents.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr T contacted AIE to report that his boiler was losing pressure and that 
there was a leak from a heating pipe under the floor. Mr T instructed a leak detection 
company to find the leak and carry out the repair. AIE arranged for a surveyor to inspect the 
damage caused by the leak and it agreed to cover the repair element of the claim. It also 
advised Mr T that the policy covered trace and access but that it didnt cover the cost of 
repairing the leak itself. 
Mr T sent the trace and access invoice to AIE. This amounted to £1,590 plus VAT. AIE said 
the cost was excessive and offered £450. 
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with this offer and complained. AIE referred to its terms and 
conditions and said that the invoice for trace and access wasnt reasonable and that its offer 
of £450 was fair. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think AIE had treated Mr and Mrs T fairly and that it should reimburse 
the full trace and access cost plus interest at 8%. Mr and Mrs T accepted this. AIE said that 
it had made it clear to Mr T via its portal that the cost needed to be reasonable, and that Mr 
T could have checked the cost with it before going ahead. It did, however, increase its offer 
to 50% of the trace and access invoice. Mr and Mrs T didnt accept this and so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy. Section 1 deals with 
buildings cover and I can see that it covers an escape of water. In relation to trace and 
access it says We will also pay up to £10,000 per incident for reasonable and necessary 
costs to remove any part of the building to find the source of damage to your home caused 
by: a. water escaping from any fixed water or heating installation, apparatus or pipes. Im 
therefore satisfied that the policy covers trace and access.
Ive also looked at the messages recorded on AIEs claims portal to see what was 
discussed. I can see that Mr T told AIE that he would need trace and access and was 
advised that this was covered under his policy. He also told AIE the name of the company he 
wanted to use, and he was asked to send in his invoice. The only advice Mr T was given 
was that the costs must be reasonable. 
Having received Mr Ts invoice for trace and access, AIE then said that £1,590 plus VAT 
was unreasonable. It says that this was more than it would have paid its own contractors to 
carry out trace and access. However, apart from this it hasnt said why it considers Mr Ts 
invoice to be excessive. Mr T wasnt given any indication what might be considered 
reasonable  and I dont think it fair to expect Mr T to know what is reasonable without 
guidance. He wasnt advised to get different quotes or to check the cost with AIE before 
going ahead. AIE says that Mr T could have checked the cost with it anyway, but I think if 
AIE had wanted Mr T to do this it should have asked him.
I also note that AIE didnt offer to carry out the trace and access itself. AIE would be aware 
that it was likely to cost more for Mr T to get the work done himself. This is because most 
insurers will have relationships with contractors whose costs are likely to be lower than those 
charged by a policyholders own contractor. If AIE wanted to keep its costs to what it would 
have paid its own contractors, it could have instructed them to carry out the work.
In the circumstances, I dont think AIE has treated Mr and Mrs T fairly. I think Mr T took care 
to ensure he understood the process for trace and access. He told AIE who he was going to 
instruct and believed them to be a reputable company. He had no reason to believe that their 
quote would not be reasonable. He was also aware of the £10,000 policy limit and that the 
cost was well within this amount.
I therefore uphold this complaint and require AIE to reimburse Mr and Mrs T the full amount 
for the trace and access of £1,908 including VAT. As Mr and Mrs T have been without this 
money since they paid their invoice, I also think it fair that AIE pay interest at 8% on this sum 
from the date the invoice was paid to the date the money is reimbursed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Ltd to:
pay Mr and Mrs T £1,908 for the trace and access; and
pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% from the date Mr and Mrs T paid 
their invoice to the date the monies are reimbursed to them.
If AIE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs T 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman