DRN-3846116
The complaint
Mr M complains because Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under his private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mr M bought a private medical insurance policy provided by Aviva. The 
policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis. This means there is no cover for conditions 
that a policyholder had symptoms of (amongst other things) in the five years before taking 
out the policy unless the policyholder meets certain criteria for a two-year period after the 
policy starts. 
In August 2022, Mr M made a claim under his policy arising from a diagnosis of osteoarthritis 
in his left hip. Aviva said the claim wasnt covered because of the terms of the moratorium.
Unhappy, Mr M complained to Aviva before bringing the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Aviva had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ms claim. Mr M didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our process.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has brought a separate complaint to us about the sale of his private medical insurance 
policy. Within this final decision, Im only considering the activities which Aviva is responsible 
for (i.e., the declinature of Mr Ms claim). 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision. 
Ive read and considered all the medical evidence that has been provided. I understand that, 
in December 2021, Mr Ms hips were described by a consultant orthopaedic surgeon as 
mobile and appear pain free. And its not in dispute that Mr Ms left hip osteoarthritis wasnt 
diagnosed until August 2022. I think the medical evidence is very clear on this point. But this 
doesnt automatically mean that Mr Ms claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
his contract with Aviva. I appreciate Mr M was described as surprised to find out the 
osteoarthritis diagnosis, and that a number of Mr Ms doctors have said his condition wasnt 
pre-existing. But the relevant definition of pre-existing is the one which is set out under the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, and not what Mr Ms doctors may have interpreted the 
phrase to mean.  
Mr Ms policy defines a pre-existing condition as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, advice or treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not before you joined the policy. 
The moratorium exclusion of Mr Ms policy says:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, 
if you had:
symptoms of

that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
So, regardless of when Mr Ms osteoarthritis was diagnosed, if he had symptoms of 
osteoarthritis in the five years before buying the policy, then his claim isnt covered. The 
medical evidence suggests that Mr M had symptoms of undiagnosed osteoarthritis during 
this time. A letter from Mr Ms consultant surgeon dated 11 August 2022 says Mr M had 
been experiencing weight-bearing issues for 15 months and it was very likely that it is his 
osteoarthritic hip is causing his trouble. A letter from Mr Ms GP dated 18 August 2022 says 
that Mr M had been experiencing pain for 15 months and that the hip is the source of pain. 
Im therefore satisfied, based on the available medical evidence, that Mr M had a pre-
existing condition as defined above. This means his claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of his policy, and I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning 
down his claim. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I wont be directing Aviva to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman