DRN-4446108
The complaint
Ms S complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) refused to refund her for disputed transactions on her 
account.
What happened
On 12 June 2023 four transactions were made on Ms Ss account, totalling £10,645, which 
she says were fraudulent and she would like Revolut to refund this money. Ms S says on 
27 April 2023 her phone was stolen which had the Revolut app, but it was only accessible 
via face ID or a passcode - which she had not shared with anyone. Additionally, Ms S logged 
her phone as lost on her iCloud as soon as she realised the phone was missing. 
Revolut say Ms S was negligible by not informing them that she had lost her phone or that 
her account may have been compromised. But Revolut say they allowed the transactions to 
go through without intervention since the fraudsters were able to bypass the security on 
Ms Ss phone and use her app  which was indistinguishable to them from genuine 
accesses that Ms S would do. Revolut expressed empathy for Ms S in her position as a 
victim of fraud, but said they were unable to refund her the money because she didnt inform 
them that her phone had been lost or stolen. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt that Revolut should refund Ms S for the 
disputed transactions. Ultimately, she felt Ms S didnt consent to or authorise these 
transactions and failing to inform Revolut she lost her phone did not amount to gross 
negligence. Revolut didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Since the investigators initial outcome, Revolut have come back with additional comments. 
Ive considered all the evidence and information supplied by both parties in my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that Ms S is 
liable for authorised payments and Revolut would be liable for unauthorised payments.
The four disputed transactions were made from Ms Ss Revolut app. The evidence provided 
shows that the transactions were made on a different device to other authorised transactions 
made around the same time. Ms S has also provided persuasive and consistent evidence to 
support her claims that her mobile phone was stolen and that she was engaged in other 
activities at the time the transactions were made. 
Ms S says she didnt write down her passcodes anywhere and the codes to access her 
phone and the app were different. Revolut recognise that the fraudsters were able to access 
her phone and app and carried out the four disputed transactions over a short period of time 
on 12 June 2023. The transactions were funded from withdrawals from Ms Ss Revolut 
savings account which the thieves were also able to access via the app. Once the savings 
were depleted and the money transferred out, no further transactions were attempted.   
Based on the evidence available, and what Ms S has told us, I think its unlikely she 
authorised the transactions herself. That means under the relevant regulations, the 
Payments Services Regulations (PSRs) Revolut can only hold her liable in limited 
circumstances  such as if she has failed in her obligations to keep her security details safe 
either intentionally, or with gross negligence.
Revolut say Ms S was negligent in failing to report her stolen phone to Revolut and in breach 
of the terms and conditions of her account. But gross negligence is a much higher standard 
than normal negligence  it involves serious recklessness. Ms S reported her phone as 
stolen to the police and made attempts to block the phone. Ms S has told us that she didnt 
think anyone would be able to access her Revolut app as it was protected by a passcode - 
which she had not shared with anyone else. As far as Ms S was aware, her Revolut card 
was safe and her app was protected by a secure passcode. Ms S bought herself a new 
phone and downloaded the Revolut app and had been using it for a few months before the 
fraud transactions were made  so she had no reason to fear her details had been 
compromised. The day after the transactions took place, Ms S realised the money was 
missing and contacted Revolut straight away.   
The test for gross negligence is an objective test and having thought about what a 
reasonable person might have done in these circumstances Im satisfied that a reasonable 
person would have done what Ms S did by reporting her stolen phone to the police and 
logging it as lost on the iCloud. It follows I dont think she acted with gross negligence.
So, considering everything Ive seen Ive decided to uphold this complaint. To put things right 
Revolut should refund Ms S the disputed transactions together with 8% simple interest from 
the date the transactions occurred until the transactions are refunded.
Putting things right
Revolut should put Ms S back in the position she wouldve been had the fraudulent 
transactions not been taken from her account. This means they need to do the following:
Pay Ms S the total of the disputed transactions I understand this to be £10,645.
Pay Ms S 8% simple interest from the date of the disputed transactions to the date of 
settlement.
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Revolut must put the Ms S back in the position she 
wouldve been in had things not gone wrong. Ive outlined the details above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman