DRN-3687023
The complaint
Ms D complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund transactions that she thought 
would be blocked. She asks that the transactions be refunded.
What happened
In October 2021, Ms D carried out a number of gambling transactions at a third-party 
establishment I will call S.
She complained to Santander after completing a disputed transaction form for some of these 
transactions. On the form she reported the machine she had used was faulty and had taken 
her payment more than once. 
She also said she had contacted Santander and asked for a block to be placed on 
subscription payments and she understood this would mean payments to S would be 
blocked.
She pointed out in the past she has been refunded for similar disputed transactions and 
doesnt feel it is fair that Santander are refusing to refund her on this occasion. She says this 
whole matter is making her ill and she is now struggling financially.
In its final response dated 27 October 2021, Santander didnt uphold her complaint. First, it 
considered chargeback based upon Ms Ds statement that the machine was faulty, but 
because Ms D had entered her card details and authorised it several times, the transactions 
did not meet the criteria for chargeback under the scheme rules.
It then considered the block on transactions Ms D thought should have applied. It 
acknowledged a Future Card Payment block had been applied to a different account in error 
and offered Ms D £25 by way of compensation. But it also said that this would block 
subscription payments and not gambling transactions. It went onto explain gambling 
transactions are treated as cash rather than debit payments and so it wouldnt apply in this 
case. It asked Ms D to contact them directly to discuss any concerns she may have about 
gambling and it could look to apply a block to any gambling establishment and transactions 
entirely.
Ms D was disappointed and so brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms D and spoke with her on the phone. In his view he 
said:
Santander had confirmed the MasterCard chargeback rights are different to that of 
Visa. The decision from MasterCard was to decline the claim for payments made to 
S between 11-28 October 2021 as they didnt meet the chargeback criteria.
There was no available evidence that Ms D had advised Santander directly she had 
concerns about gambling. Had she done so; this would be recorded on the customer 
alerts with Ms Ds permission.
The block that was applied was for subscription payments and not for gambling.
When Ms D raised the dispute, the payments to SGL were authorised with the card 
present via chip and pin over several days. Santander say that this doesnt represent 
a faulty machine so wouldnt have been a fraudulent transaction either.
Santander said the transactions to S werent easily recognised as gambling and they 
wouldnt have been captured by the block for subscriptions payments.
Ms D would need to apply the block for any gambling transactions, as this hasnt 
been done, Santander cant be held responsible for the transactions.
In his view he found Santander had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint and didnt ask it to do anything further.
Ms D was very disappointed with this outcome. She asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, Ill explain why.
Ms D has raised two issues with regard to these transactions. The first is a disputed 
transaction which she asked to pursue a refund via chargeback. The second that in any 
event, she thought these transactions should have been blocked following an earlier 
conversation with Santander.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under chargeback. I take that into account when I 
think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the same 
view as, for example, a court might reach. 
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action. The scheme operator, MasterCard in this 
instance, sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
The starting point is that Santander is entitled to hold a customer liable for a transaction that 
theyve authorised. Ms D doesnt dispute this, but in the first instance she says the machine 
she used was faulty and took payment without providing her with the service she expected.Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme provider (so in this case, 
Mastercard) and Santander is bound by the card scheme providers rules. There is no right 
to a chargeback. Its for Santander to decide whether it has a basis upon which it can raise a 
chargeback claim its customers behalf. It does so by taking into consideration the scheme 
providers rules and looking at the evidence to see if the claim has any prospect of success. 
The scheme rules set out a range of categories in which a dispute can be raised. 
Unfortunately, these only cover gambling transactions in very limited circumstances. The 
evidence shows these were not duplicated transactions, were money was taken twice in 
error one immediately after another, but rather multiple authorised transactions for different 
amounts over a number of days. On this basis the chargeback request was declined.
Its important to say that Ms D has brought her complaint against Santander and so Im only 
considering if Santander has done anything wrong in terms of its consideration of Ms Ds 
chargeback request. Im persuaded Santander acted swiftly to raise the chargeback and 
responded fairly and reasonably based on the evidence provided.
Ive then gone on to consider whether this transaction should have been blocked by 
Santander.
I can see that Ms D has had previous transactions refunded, but I am only considering the 
merits of this complaint  that is to say whether the payments to S should have been 
blocked.  
The block Ms D had requested, although applied in error to another account was for 
subscriptions. Subscription block generally apply to debit card payments, whereas gambling 
transactions are recorded as cash transactions. Santander has asked Ms D to provide the 
dates of telephone conversations she has had where a Santander representative has said 
gambling transactions would be blocked or a refund provided. To date Ms D has not been 
able to provide this information and so in its absence I have looked at the wider 
circumstances to reach a view on what has more likely occurred.
I have looked at Ms Ds bank statements and I can see that the transaction is registered 
against S but there is nothing to identify this supplier as a gambling institution. Even if it 
had, Ms D would have needed to provide specific permission for Santander to apply a block 
on all gambling transactions, as detailed in their final response. Ms D had not done so and 
has continued to transact at S after the disputed transactions occurred. So,  Im not 
persuaded Santander would have been able to identify this transaction as one Ms D would 
want blocked nor has any permissions been given to do so  this means I cant fairly hold 
Santander responsible for multiple transactions Ms D authorised despite subsequently 
stating the machine she used was faulty.
I appreciate Ms D will be disappointed. Im sorry to hear she has said she is struggling 
financially and hasnt been in the best of health but Im not able to say Santander has acted 
unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint and so I wont be upholding it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Wendy SteeleOmbudsman