DRN-4511155
The complaint
Mr B has complained National Savings and Investments (NS&I) have inadequately 
compensated him for problems he had with their customer service. Hes also concerned they 
wont refund money he believes was stolen from his account.
What happened
Over the last year, Mr B discovered that his NS&I account was transferred into his brothers 
name. They have the same first initial, and of course surname. He believes this limited his 
access to his account. 
As Mr B got his historical account records from NS&I, he became aware of a large 
withdrawal made in May 1992. As he was young at the time, he was sure this hadnt been 
him so asked NS&I to investigate this and refund him.
NS&I held limited information about any withdrawals made over 30 years ago so werent 
able to confirm to Mr B how this was made. However they believed this must have been 
done by an authorised parent or guardian in line with their normal procedures.
Mr B was dissatisfied with both the compensation hed been offered for two data breaches 
and believed NS&I should refund the money taken out of his account in full, along with 
appropriate interest. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She told Mr B there was no evidence from the time 
of the transactions which would confirm the money had been taken out without authorisation. 
She also thought the compensation of £175 in total was fair.
Still unhappy, Mr B has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr B has provided pages of evidence from his data subject access request with NS&I. I can 
reassure him that Ive reviewed this in full. Ive also considered all of the different aspects of 
his complaint. I will deal with the data breach aspects firstly.
Data breaches
Theres no dispute NS&I made a mistake. They allocated Mr Bs account to his brothers 
record in error which limited his ability to access his account. They also subsequently sent 
Mr Bs brother generic interest rates on historical NS&I accounts rather than Mr B.
I appreciate why Mr B found this annoying and was irritated by what he thought was NS&Is 
unwillingness to note the seriousness of the situation. I believe he feels that because his 
account was transferred to his brother, then NS&I saw this as less serious than if his account 
had been allocated to an unknown third party. My role is to consider the impact on Mr B 
rather than the seriousness, or otherwise, of the data breaches.
Ive considered this in detail, but Ive seen nothing which shows this limited Mr Bs ability to 
transact. His data was breached, but NS&I sorted this out and paid Mr B £125 for this error.
I dont believe the provision of historical interest rates information to his brother would 
require additional compensation as Im unable to identify the impact this has had on him. 
Mr B should note I dont wish to trivialise what happened, just that Im not convinced NS&I 
should pay him additional compensation.
It is not my role to fine an institution for data breaches as thats the responsibility of the 
Information Commissioners Office. So overall I think the level of compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
Withdrawal from Mr Bs account
In current times there is legislation covering the authorisation or otherwise of payments and 
withdrawals made from accounts. These didnt exist in 1992. But when considering what is 
fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have done that here.
Again I can see that all parties can identify £5,329.81 was withdrawn from Mr Bs NS&I 
account on 11 May 1992. This is shown on a copy of Mr Bs passbook that he shared with 
us.
Because of the time that has passed, NS&I isnt able to identify how or by whom the account 
was opened. There is no requirement on financial institutions to hold records for the length of 
period that would be required here to evidence what happened. I appreciate how frustrating 
this must be, but I dont think NS&I has done anything wrong. 
Its clear this wasnt opened by Mr B himself as he was only a child and hes told us his 
parents were unaware of the account. This does suggest it may well have been opened by 
other relatives, possibly grandparents, and put in Mr Bs name.
NS&I has confirmed that a withdrawal form must have been completed in accordance with 
their procedures at the time. Unfortunately but unsurprisingly this no longer exists. Whilst a 
7 year-old would have had authority to make withdrawals during this time period (although 
rules have changed since), I think its unlikely Mr B did this himself. He may well, however, 
have been present when this was done. Understandably he cant recall this.
I appreciate why Mr B believes money was stolen from his account but there is no evidence 
to suggest this. Id have to wonder why anyone would have allowed £5,329.81 (a very 
specific amount) to be withdrawn without authority and its clear the passbook was present. 
This very much suggests this wasnt an unknown third party. So I dont think the withdrawal 
took place without appropriate authorisation, although I admit I cant say this for definite.
NS&I gave Mr B £50 for the issues around this aspect. Whilst Mr B may feel hes lost out, I 
dont think so. Therefore this compensation seems more than fair and reasonable.
Based on what Ive considered, I wont be asking NS&I to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against National 
Savings and Investments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman