DRN-2644087
The complaint
Mr C complains about the pension transfer of his preserved benefits in his former employers 
defined benefit pension scheme (the scheme) to a personal pension in September 2006. 
He believes that the pension transfer was unsuitable and wants to receive compensation to 
place him into the position hed be in now had he not transferred.
Mr C is represented in this complaint by his wife.
What happened
In November 1995, Mr C joined the scheme. The pension provided at the normal retirement 
age of 65 was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to Mr Cs final salary, pensionable 
service and benefit accrual rate. The pension was guaranteed in line with the scheme rules, 
so long as the employer was financially able to support the scheme.
In December 2005, the employer sent Mr C and other scheme members a communication 
explaining that the scheme was in deficit by £6.5m. The scheme trustees wanted to address 
the deficit and outlined three options. These were to reduce the benefit accrual rate from 
60ths to 80ths (which would result in a reduced pension and therefore the employers 
liabilities), increasing the level of contributions paid into the scheme or active members 
entering into a salary sacrifice arrangement. The employer concluded that restructuring the 
scheme was a priority and that presentations would be made to employees to talk through 
what was happening and the options available. The presentations were subsequently 
provided by a financial advisory business, Hase Osborne Asset Management Ltd (Hase 
Osborne).
In February 2006, the employer sent Mr C and other scheme members a letter setting out its 
planned change to the scheme. It was proposed that from 20 February 2006, a new salary 
sacrifice arrangement would become effective designed to reduce the deficit. It was 
explained that this would enable the benefit accrual rate to remain unchanged, meaning 
benefits payable from the scheme, past and future, would be unaffected. The mechanics of 
the salary sacrifice arrangement were explained. In basic terms, it meant members take 
home would reduce by approximately 1% compared to 2% if their contributions increased. 
Enclosed with the letter was a flowchart showing the actions that members had to take. The 
options available to members were:
Accept the salary sacrifice arrangement and continue to earn benefits at a 60th 
accrual rate;
Leave the scheme and join a new workplace defined contribution pension scheme 
with the employer matching member contributions up to 7%; or
Leave the scheme and make their own pension provision with no contributions paid 
by the employer.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by the deadline on 10 February 2006 
those that didnt reply in time or choose an option would be assumed to have chosen option 
c). In March 2006, Mr C left the scheme. His pension at the date of the leaving the scheme 
was £3,060.79 per year.
Shortly afterwards, Mr C met an adviser from Hase Osborne. In April 2006, Mr C signed 
Hase Osbornes form titled Transfer Information and advice form. This confirmed that Mr C 
wanted Hase Osborne to obtain the transfer value of his preserved benefits and to provide 
advice on whether he should leave his preserved benefits in the scheme or transfer out.
In May 2006, Mr C joined the employers new workplace defined contribution pension 
scheme with Scottish Widows which had a selected retirement age of 65. Contributions were 
invested in Scottish Widows balanced portfolio fund. In the same month, the employer sent 
Mr C and other deferred members a letter explaining that they could receive an enhanced 
transfer value (ETV), which could either be added to the transfer value or taken as a cash 
payment, subject to tax and national insurance, if they transferred the value of their 
preserved benefits out of the scheme. On our complaint form, Mr C stated that the offer of a 
cash payment and his concerns about the financial health of the scheme led him to decide, 
without advice, to transfer the value of his preserved benefits to his Scottish Widows pension 
plan.
In June 2006, Hase Osborne sent a fax to the scheme administrator which included a copy 
of the Transfer Information and advice form. The fax cover stated Mr [C] has now informed 
me that he wishes to proceed with a transfer to the Scottish Widows scheme regardless of 
advice and I have agreed to arrange this on this behalf.
In July 2006, Hase Osborne sent a letter to Mr C and stated, Whilst we are happy to provide 
advice on whether transferring these Benefits is beneficial to you, I understand you have 
decided to go ahead in any event. Assuming this is the case, please can you sign and return 
the enclosed letter to confirm this. Alternatively, if you would like advice regarding the 
transfer of these benefits please let me know. Hase Osborne then received a signed letter 
from Mr S which stated, "I have neither sought nor received any advice from Hase 
Osborne regarding the transfer of my accrued benefits from the [the scheme] to the [pension 
plan] with Scottish Widows".
In September 2006, the value of Mr Cs preserved benefits in the scheme were transferred 
to his Scottish Widows pension plan. The transfer value paid into the plan was £12,753. He 
received a separate cash payment as part of the ETV offer in his pay. Mr C was 36 at that 
time.
In October 2017, Fairstone Group Limited, of which Fairstone Financial Management Limited 
(Fairstone) is part, fully acquired Hase Osborne.
Mr Cs complaint
In January 2018, Mr C was made redundant by his employer. This prompted him to seek 
financial advice. He says that information provided by the adviser led him to believe that the 
pension transfer in 2006 was unsuitable and that he was financially worse off as a result. 
After initially appointing a claims management company to investigate the matter, Mr C 
contacted Fairstone direct to express his concerns about the suitability of pension transfer.
Fairstones response to Mr Cs complaint
Fairstone didnt uphold this complaint. It told Mr C that the paperwork from the time of the 
transaction in 2006 showed he was treated as an insistent client and that he had directed 
Hase Osborne to arrange the transfer without advice. As a result, it didnt accept liability for 
the suitability of the pension transfer or any financial loss flowing from it.Our investigators assessment of Mr Cs complaint
Dissatisfied with Fairstones response to this complaint, Mr Cs representative referred the 
matter to this service. Our investigator didnt think that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
He said, in summary, the following:
Theres no evidence available to show which, if any, of the three options Mr C 
selected in response to the employers letter sent in February 2006  but noted Mr C 
joined the new workplace defined contribution pension scheme with Scottish Widows;
With regard to transferring out, he noted that Mr C initially wanted Hase Osborne to 
provide advice but then changed his mind when his employer offered an ETV, which 
could either be added to the transfer value or taken as a cash payment, which led 
him to decide, without advice, to transfer the value of his preserved benefits to his 
Scottish Widows pension plan. He concluded that Mr C wouldve transferred 
regardless of any financial advice so that he could obtain the cash payment;
 
Mr C signed a declaration that Hase Osborne didnt advise him regarding the pension 
transfer and he hadnt seen any evidence to the contrary  therefore the transaction 
would be better categorised as execution-only rather than as insistent client 
business, as stated by Fairstone in its final response letter; and
He hadnt seen any evidence that Hase Osborne had treated Mr C unfairly or made 
an error. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings. His representative provided additional 
comments, summarised as follows: 
Mr Cs employers intentions were clear from the outset in that it wanted as many 
members as possible to transfer out of the scheme, thereby reducing its liabilities;
The employers initial communication with members in December 2005 didnt adhere 
to employment law because it made no reference to the need for it to undertake a 
formal consultation with its workforce prior to making any changes to their contractual 
terms of employment;
The employers communication in February 2006 was initially focused on 
implementing a salary sacrifice arrangement. It then went on to suggest that 
members could increase their contributions to reduce the deficit but there was no 
mention of the employer increasing its contributions. The letter then explained in a 
very confusing and negative manner what impact the salary sacrifice arrangement 
would have on members, before then placing significant emphasis on members 
electing not to remain in the scheme and how the employer was prepared to offer an 
ETV for those members that transferred out. The letter then concluded by instructing 
members to complete and return the enclosed option form to confirm whether they 
accepted the salary sacrifice arrangement, the alternative of a new workplace 
defined contribution pension scheme or to arrange their own pension provision. No 
information was provided about what impact each of these options would have on a 
members future pension provision. And no mention was made of the need for 
members to obtain financial advice; 
The employers communications were issued in part to create confusion and panic 
and written in a way that would lead members to question how safe their preserved benefits in the scheme were  although reference was made to the Pension 
Protection Fund, this was not done with any genuine attempt of reassuring members 
about how valuable that scheme would be if the employer became insolvent.
. 
The pension transfer cannot be classified as execution only since it wouldve been 
subject to the rules on assessment of appropriateness under COBS 10 because a 
pension transfer is a complex financial instrument  as such, Hase Osborne was 
required to perform an appropriateness test even though it didnt advise Mr C; 
In its final response letter, Fairstone stated that the adviser at Hase Osborne said 
that had advice been given that he wouldve advised Mr C not to transfer  since 
Hase Osborne was subject to the requirements in COBS 10, it is difficult to 
understand why it then facilitated the pension transfer if it knew it was the wrong 
thing for Mr C to do; and
The transfer value quoted in May 2006 was £14,189 but the actual transfer value 
paid was £12,754  no explanation was provided about the reason why a lower figure 
was paid.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He said, in summary, the following:
The communications sent by the employer clearly explained the situation about the 
scheme being in deficit and the options available to members;
He was unable to comment on whether the employers communications adhered to 
employment law since this fell outside his area of expertise;
The communications included the statements You should fully understand your 
options before making any decisions. If you are unsure about what to do, you may 
wish to contact an independent adviser. A contact number can be found in the 
Questions and Answers section. and The pros and cons of transferring existing 
benefits from the Final Salary Scheme are complex and you are encouraged to seek 
independent financial advice., so he disagreed that no mention was made of the 
need for members to obtain financial advice; 
He remained of the opinion that the causation for the pension transfer was the offer 
of a cash payment and that Mr C made the decision to proceed without advice 
because of this;
In response to the representatives comments about the appropriateness test under 
COBS 10, he clarified that because he saw no evidence that the transaction had 
been carried out on an insistent client basis, as stated by Fairstone in its final 
response letter, it would be better to categorise the pension transfer as having been 
facilitated on an execution-only basis; and
He explained that the pension transfer was completed outside the guarantee period 
of the transfer value quote of £14,189 which meant that by the time it was completed 
it had to be re-calculated, as was normal practice, and had reduced to £12,754.
Mr Cs representative didnt accept our investigators view and requested that the matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is,
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and
the wider surrounding circumstances.
Having considered the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and 
for much the same reasons. Ive explained why below.
Scope of this final decision
A significant part of Mr Cs complaint concerns the actions of his former employer in the 
period leading up to the pension transfer, particularly the quality of the information it provided 
about the changes to the scheme and the promotion of the ETV. Mr Cs representative says 
that the employer breached employment law and its communications sent to members were 
designed to cause confusion and panic with the aim of persuading them to transfer out of the 
scheme. Its clear that Mr Cs representative is unhappy about how his employer acted at the 
time. However, for this service to be able to consider this part of Mr Cs complaint, we must 
have jurisdiction to do so. To clarify, this service cannot consider every complaint referred to 
it. Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules, written by the FCA. These form 
part of the FCA Handbook. These rules mean that I cannot consider the part of Mr Cs 
complaint about his former employer because it wasnt a regulated entity subject to the 
FCAs (or its predecessors) rules. This means that under this final decision I can only 
consider the acts or omissions of Hase Osborne (which was later acquired by Fairstone).
Therefore, in the sections below, Ive only considered Mr Cs interactions with Hase Osborne 
because this is the only element of his complaint that I can decide upon. To make my 
findings easier to follow, Ive set them out below under separate headings.
ETV exercise
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr Cs pension transfer in 2006 was part of a bulk ETV 
exercise. Before 2008, many bulk ETV exercises were done on a direct offer basis where no 
financial advice was involved and the employer made an offer directly to the member, 
typically by a broad communication giving generic benefits and disadvantages of 
transferring. This is what happened in Mr Cs case. I say this because the evidence shows 
the offer of an ETV was made by his employer to a number of employees. The evidence also 
shows that Mr Cs pension transfer was facilitated by Hase Osborne on a non-advised basis. 
By mid-2008, the FSA, the predecessor to the FCA, had issued two statements about the 
complexities of doing ETV exercises on a direct offer basis. Financial advisers were 
therefore engaged by employers to provide individual advice to their members on the 
suitability of the pension transfer. However, in deciding this complaint, I need to consider the 
rules and expectations that existed in 2006 when regulatory expectations were less 
stringent.
Insistent client v execution only
Theres no evidence that Hase Osborne advised Mr C to transfer the value of his preserved 
benefits in the scheme. On the contrary, the evidence clearly shows that the pension transfer was facilitated on a non-advised basis. Hase Osborne offered Mr C advice but he declined 
this and signed a declaration to that effect. On our complaint form Mr C stated that in 2006 
he decided, without advice, to proceed with the pension transfer so that he could obtain the 
cash payment offered under the ETV exercise. I havent been provided evidence of the 
specific cash payment he received, but Mr Cs representative confirmed that he received it 
as part of his pay following the pension transfer and that it was in addition to the transfer 
value of £12,754 paid to his Scottish Widows pension plan.
Theres some confusion about how the transaction should be categorised. In its final 
response letter and in its communications with this service, Fairstone said Mr C was an 
insistent client because he declined Hase Osbornes offer of advice. However, an insistent 
client is one that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and 
wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice. Hase Osborne didnt 
provide a personal recommendation to Mr C. So its my view that he cannot be categorised 
as an insistent client. Like our investigator, I think it would be more accurate to describe the 
transaction as execution-only because Hase Osborne facilitated Mr Cs instruction to 
arrange the pension transfer without advice.
The reference to execution-only in the investigators view letter led Mr Cs representative to 
incorrectly believe that COBS 10 applied, namely the requirement of an appropriateness 
test. But this isnt the case. This is because COBS 10 didnt exist until 1 November 2007 
which was after the pension transfer in September 2006. In any event, the appropriateness 
test in COBS 10 applies to complex financial instruments such as unregulated collective 
investment schemes, structured products, spread betting, derivatives and covered warrants. 
A pension transfer doesnt meet the definition of a complex financial instrument. Therefore, 
the representatives comments about COBS 10 arent relevant in deciding this complaint.
Conclusion
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I dont think Hase Osborne did 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. Since Hase Osborne didnt advise Mr C on the merits 
or otherwise of transferring, I cannot find it responsible for Mr Cs decision to proceed with 
the pension transfer without advice. He rejected Hase Osbornes offer of advice. I agree with 
our investigators view that Mr C wouldve transferred regardless of any financial advice so 
that he could obtain the cash payment offered by his employer as part of the ETV exercise. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Fairstone to pay compensation to Mr C or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman