DRN-4112536
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how Sainsburys Bank Plc administered her motor insurance policy. 
She wants it to refund the additional costs she incurred when her policy was cancelled.
 
What happened
Mrs K was involved in a collision in 2020 and her policys underwriter at the time held her not 
at fault. A year later, the underwriter was unable to recover its outlay and it wrote to Mrs K 
telling her that the claim was now recorded as a fault. Mrs K accepts this. When her policy 
bought through Sainsburys renewed in 2022, Mrs K accepted the quote with a new 
underwriter. The claim from 2020 was listed on the quote but recorded as NCB prejudiced, 
No, when it should have been Yes. 
The new underwriter noted that the claim had been incorrectly disclosed and, after 
unsuccessful attempts to contact Mrs K, instructed Sainsburys to cancel the policy. Mrs K 
was given a refund of her premium less charges for cancellation and her time on cover. And 
Mrs K then had to take out a more expensive policy. 
Mrs K said it was for Sainsburys to record the claim correctly on her renewal documents. 
She said she didnt respond to its letters asking her to contact it as they were poorly 
produced, and she thought they were scams. She thought the policy shouldnt have been 
cancelled and Sainsburys should reimburse her the extra costs shed incurred. 
Sainsburys said the previous underwriter hadnt told it that the claim had been changed to 
fault. It said Mrs K should have told it and should have noticed this was incorrectly 
recorded on the renewal documents. But it offered Mrs K £100 compensation for any trouble 
and upset caused. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
reasonable for Mrs K to expect the underwriter to have told Sainsburys about the change in 
the claim status. He thought the information about the claim status on the renewal 
documents was unclear. So he thought Mrs K wasnt to blame for the claim being incorrectly 
disclosed. He thought Sainsburys should restore Mrs Ks position by refunding the retained 
premium for her cancelled policy and paying her a total of £150 compensation. 
Sainsburys replied that it wasnt responsible for the cancellation, and it thought Mrs K was 
aware that the claim had been incorrectly recorded. It said it hadnt been told by the 
underwriter of the change in outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K said that she was aware that the claim had been changed from non-fault to fault by 
the underwriter. So I think I need to consider two issues: was Sainsburys made aware by 
the underwriter of the change in claim outcome, and; was the claim outcome clearly enough 
recorded on the renewal documents for Mrs K to see that it wasnt correctly recorded?
Sainsburys said that it wasnt told by the underwriter that it had changed the claims record. 
But I dont think this is correct. I can see in Sainsburys file notes that it had a discussion with 
the underwriter in June 2022. The note says the underwriter was unable to recover the 
outlay, so it was changed to a fault claim. It also says the underwriter sent notification to 
Sainsburys when the change was made to a fault claim.
Our Investigator asked Sainsburys for its comments on this file entry. But it hasnt 
responded or provided its correspondence with the underwriter. So Im satisfied that its most 
likely that the underwriter did notify Sainsburys about the change to a fault claim. 
Sainsburys should then have updated its records so that the renewal notice it send to Mrs K 
recorded the correct outcome for the claim. But I can see that it didnt do this. The renewal 
notice had details about the claim. But the outcome for NCB prejudiced was incorrectly 
No. 
Mrs K said she had relied on Sainsburys providing accurate information and so she didnt 
notice this. I think it would usually be reasonable to expect Mrs K to check that her details 
were correct and inform Sainsburys about any errors as this might affect future claims and 
her cover. But I dont think this would be fair and reasonable in Mrs Ks particular 
circumstances. 
This is because I dont think its reasonable for Sainsburys to expect a consumer to 
understand that NCB prejudiced means that the claim was or wasnt a fault. Other policy 
schedules Ive seen simply state such things as fault or non-fault. Mrs K had paid for NCB 
protection. And she may have understood that her NCB wouldnt reduce because of this. So 
Im not satisfied that Sainsburys presented information about the claim clearly. And I dont 
think its fair or reasonable for it to hold Mrs K responsible for not spotting the error. 
Sainsburys said Mrs K had disclosed the claim as fault when she took out a new policy 
after her previous one was cancelled. It said that this showed that Mrs K was aware that the 
claim should be recorded as fault. But this isnt in dispute. And so I dont think this is a 
reason why Sainsburys can say that Mrs K provided incorrect information about the claim. 
Sainsburys said Mrs K didnt respond to its attempts to contact her about the policy before it 
was cancelled. Mrs K said she thought the letters and emails were scams. But I think 
Sainsburys made reasonable attempts to contact Mrs K and notify her about the 
cancellation. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Im satisfied Sainsburys has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
But for Sainsburys error, Mrs K would have taken out a policy with the claim recorded 
correctly and she would have paid a higher premium for it, as she later did. And so her 
insurer wouldnt then have cancelled her policy and Mrs K wouldnt have paid charges for 
this. So to restore her position I think Sainsburys should refund the full amount Mrs K paid 
for her cancelled policy. 
Sainsburys offered Mrs K £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But Im not 
satisfied that this is enough in the circumstances. In keeping with our published guidance, I 
think it should increase this to £150 in total. 
Putting things right
I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to do the following:
1. Refund the full amount Mrs K paid for the policy that was cancelled, a total of £383.10 
(less the amount already paid).
2. Pay Mrs K £150 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience its mistake 
caused.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Sainsburys Bank Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman