DRN-3450004
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined part of his contents insurance 
claim following a burglary at his home.
What happened
Aviva accepted Mr Ds claim under his home insurance policy when he reported a burglary 
at his home. Amongst other items, he reported the theft of photography equipment, a gold 
necklace and a premium brand watch. Aviva asked for proof of ownership. 
Mr D provided a receipt, the original box and photos of himself wearing the watch. He also 
provided receipts for photography equipment, some of which he said hadnt been stolen and 
he wasn't claiming for, and photos of himself with the stolen equipment. Aviva declined the 
claim because it didnt think Mr D had provided sufficient evidence of ownership.
Mr D went on to provide messages from a friend confirming hed gifted the watch to Mr D. 
But Aviva maintained its decision to decline those items because he hadnt proved 
ownership.
Mr D complained while continuing to seek further evidence of ownership.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Mr D fairly. She said the evidence indicated it 
was more likely than not that Mr D had owned the photography equipment so it should settle 
that part of his claim. But she agreed that Aviva had reasonably declined his claim for the 
watch
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The circumstances of the burglary are not in dispute. Mr D said Aviva refused to pay for a 
gold necklace which was also stolen. Hes aware that Aviva hasnt had the opportunity to 
respond to that part of his complaint, so I wont address it here. 
The remaining issue is that Aviva declined to pay for some photography equipment and a 
watch.
Under the General Conditions, the policy states:
8. Proof of value and ownership 
When you are claiming for contents it is your responsibility to prove any loss. We 
therefore recommend that you keep receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction 
booklets and guarantee cards to help with your claim.
This information is also highlighted under section 7, in a box indicating attention is being 
drawn to it. Therefore, Im satisfied that Aviva made Mr D aware of what hed need to 
provide when making a claim, and Ive gone on to look at what he did provide for each of the 
items in dispute.
Photography equipment
Mr D notified Aviva that photography equipment had been stolen, including some lenses.  He 
included these on his loss list. When Aviva asked him for evidence, he provided photos of 
himself in various locations wearing the camera slung over his shoulder and the equipment 
attached to it. He also provided copies of a receipt showing other items hed bought which 
hadnt been stolen, pointing out he wasn't claiming for those.
Aviva declined the claim for the camera lenses because the photos didnt prove ownership. 
But, having looked at the evidence, I think Mr D has provided enough to show he owned the 
photography equipment in dispute. The photos and receipt reflect a lifestyle which suggests 
Mr D more likely than not owned the lenses for which he is claiming. Aviva settled the claim 
for the remainder of the photography equipment, and for other items based on photos alone. 
So, its reasonable to say Aviva shouldve settled the claim for the camera lenses on the 
same basis. 
My provisional decision is that Aviva should reconsider Mr Ds claim for the camera lenses in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, accepting that hes provided 
sufficient evidence of ownership.
Premium brand watch
Aviva declined Mr Ds claim for his watch because it didnt think hed proved ownership.
Ive looked at the loss adjusters investigation report and note the following comments:
The Insured presented a copy of the original purchase receipt and pictures of him 
wearing the watch and of the box etc.
Having completed our investigations, we have been unable to find any evidence to prove 
the loss to be anything other than genuine or that the claim had been exaggerated.
So, on the face of it, there wouldve been no reason to doubt Mr Ds loss.
Mr D says he told Aviva he had the watch when he took out the policy. Theres no evidence 
that he did, but Avivas notes state the following:
On these policies you cannot specify an item, you just need to make sure the £50,000 
limit is sufficient to cover your individual valuables.
Therefore, Mr D wouldnt have been required to tell Aviva that he had the watch.
Nevertheless, in line with the policy, Id expect Mr D to be able to prove ownership. Looking 
again at what Aviva requires - receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and 
guarantee cards  Mr D provided Avivas loss adjuster with a copy of the receipt, the box, 
and photos of him wearing the watch. He says the other documents were stored in his safe 
which was also stolen during the burglary.
Thinking about the evidence Mr D provided, I fail to see why Aviva doesnt think the receipt, 
the box and photos of him wearing the watch meet the policy terms and conditions. Aviva 
said the evidence he provided wasn't enough because:
The receipt didnt show the make, model and serial number.
Mr D hadnt registered the watch.He didnt know the serial number.
Mr D went on to get evidence from his friend who had gifted the watch to him. He provided a 
screen shot of a message confirming it was a gift, and an email from the store confirming the 
purchase. Aviva couldnt confirm the message with Mr Ds friend due to his lack of 
availability, but I dont see why that wouldve carried greater weight than Mr Ds evidence. 
Ive thought carefully about the information Mr D provided, and I dont think Aviva treated him 
fairly. It was an expensive watch so I can understand that Aviva wouldve expected him to 
register it,or be able to provide evidence of the serial number. But the policy simply requires 
him to prove ownership and Im satisfied that having the receipt, the box and photos does 
that.
I should point out that since Aviva issued its final response, Mr D has obtained further 
information about his watch. The retailer provided details of the serial and model number 
and confirmed the sale. Mr D also registered the details with the manufacturer so that his 
watch can be identified should someone take it into any of its retail stores. I note Aviva tried 
to contact the store where the watch was bought, but, as yet, hasnt been successful.
I think a fair outcome would be for Aviva to reconsider Mr Ds claim for his watch, accepting 
his evidence as proof of ownership. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr D provided Aviva with enough proof of ownership and that it 
treated him unfairly when it declined his claim for lack of evidence. I appreciate the watch is 
a premium brand, and therefore expensive, but I see no reason why Aviva should decline 
the claim when Mr D provided the evidence required under the policy terms and conditions.
I said I was minded to require Aviva to:
accept Mr Ds evidence as proof of ownership and reconsider his claim for his 
camera equipment and watch in line with the terms of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva didnt provide any further comment.
Mr D responded to say he didnt have photos of his watch because he doesnt take photos of 
himself. But he pointed out hed provided everything else Aviva asked for. So, Ive taken this 
into consideration when reaching my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite Mr Ds clarification, Ive decided to uphold his complaint for the same reasons as 
those set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain.
Mr D said he didnt provide a photo of his watch because he doesnt have one. Avivas 
evidence reported that the loss adjuster saw a photo of Mr D wearing his watch. I accepted 
Avivas evidence at face value because it wasnt detrimental to Mr Ds position.
Having thought about Mr Ds clarification, Ive decided it doesnt make a significant 
difference to my decision. Thats because he provided enough other evidence of ownership that the absence of a photo doesnt shift the balance of evidence against his complaint. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Aviva should reconsider his claim accepting that he has 
provided enough evidence of ownership for both the camera equipment and watch.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds 
complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
accept Mr Ds evidence as proof of ownership and reconsider his claim for his 
camera equipment and watch in line with the terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman