DRN-3429004
The complaint
Miss M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss M says she opened her Capital One account in December 2017. She says the lending 
was unaffordable and the decision to open the account was irresponsible. Miss M says her 
poor credit record wasnt assessed, and no evidence was sought of her income. She says 
she inflated her income on the application and says the interest rate was too high. She also 
says she told Capital One about her health issues, but it didnt give her any support or help. 
Miss M says she took out a loan to repay her debt and was in Persistent Debt (PD) but 
Capital One didnt treat her in accordance with the PD rules. She would like interest and 
charges refunded and the default removed from her credit file.
Capital One says Miss M told it she was living at home with an income of £18,000 a year. It 
says it did carry out lending checks and looked at Miss Ms credit file which showed limited 
other debt of just over £1,000 and two defaults over five months before this application which 
were relatively low and being repaid. It says it also considered Miss Ms other account 
management and approved a relatively low credit limit of £200. Capital One says Miss M 
made required payments until 2019 and the account was defaulted in 2020.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think Capital One would have been required to check Miss Ms income for a credit limit 
of £200 and didnt think there any evidence on Capital One records that it had been told 
about any health issues before the application or after it was approved. The investigator 
thought Capital One did check Miss Ms credit file and noted the relatively low level of other 
debt and that the defaults went back some months before the application. She also thought 
Capital One had tried to contact Miss M and gave her a list of organisations that could help 
with debt. The investigator didnt think Miss M met the criteria for PD and had agreed to the 
account terms and conditions about the interest rate.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and says she was earning about £4,000 less than she told 
Capital One. She says she did tell Capital One about her health issues and its not for her to 
prove she told it about them, and says she was borrowing for essential items.
Capital One has made an offer to refund charges and interest which it calculates at about 
just over £300 and deduct it from the amount owed by Miss M.
Miss M doesnt accept that offer and says Capital One is admitting liability and hasnt offered 
compensation. She would like a full refund and paid to her rather than deducted from the 
debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of any lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a 
loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Capital Ones checks to have been as 
detailed here as for that type of lending. But of course, checks must still be carried out.
I appreciate Miss M says Capital One didnt ask her for evidence of her income or her bank 
statements and that she over inflated her income. Im satisfied that Miss M was required as 
part of the application to provide accurate information to Capital One. And Im also satisfied 
that Capital One did carry out checks on Miss Ms credit file. I can see that it considered and 
calculated Miss Ms other debt which was just over £1,000 and considered that her last 
default was some months before this application which was being repaid. I can also see from 
Capital Ones records that it also considered Miss Ms other account management which 
was appropriate.
So, Im satisfied that Capital One did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss 
Ms application and that it was entitled to conclude the lending was affordable. It follows that 
I dont think the lending decision was irresponsible. Im satisfied that Miss M had relatively 
low levels of other debt and, whilst I accept her credit file was not perfect, I dont think what 
was recorded would have led Capital One to conclude the lending was unaffordable.
Im satisfied that Capital One allowed what I think was a relatively low credit facility of £200 
which based on either of Miss Ms income figures ought to have been affordable when 
compared to her debt which I have explained was relatively low. 
I have looked carefully at Miss Ms account management following the account opening in 
December 2017. I can see that Miss M made required payments for some significant time 
after the account was opened and repaid the full balances on two occasions. I appreciate 
Miss M says she borrowed money to do so but I wouldnt have expected Capital One to have 
known that. So, I think the appropriate account management for some time provides 
additional evidence that the lending was at the time affordable.
I can see that Miss M missed required payments in late 2019 some two years after the 
account was opened. And that the account defaulted in 2020. I think on balance that 
suggests Miss M experienced financial difficulties some time after the account was opened 
rather than the account being unaffordable from the start.
I appreciate Miss M says she told Capital One about her health issues. I have looked 
carefully at Capital Ones records and I cant see any record of Miss M telling it about them. I 
appreciate Miss M says it is for Capital One to provide evidence that she didnt disclose that 
information. But we consider evidence from both sides and I dont think Miss M has been 
able to tell us what she told Capital One about her health and when. In any event I dont 
think that issue would have had any impact on the decision to lend as Miss M accepts at the 
time of the application she was working.
Im satisfied that Miss M would have agreed to the account terms and conditions when the 
account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear the interest rate and so I cant 
fairly comment on that rate. I appreciate Miss M says it is too high, but she agreed to it. And 
its not our role following a Supreme Court decision to be able to find such interest rates are 
too high and so unfair.I do not think Miss M met the criteria for the PD rules as she repaid her balance on two 
occasions.
I can see that Capital One has made an offer to Miss M about the interest and charges. I 
appreciate Miss M says that it must, by doing so, be accepting responsibility for making a 
mistake. I dont think that Capital One has made such an admission and of course its up to 
Miss M to decide if she wished to accept that offer. I have made clear that I dont think 
Capital One made a mistake or acted unfairly by approving the account in 2017.
Overall, Im satisfied that Capital Ones lending decision was not irresponsible or 
unaffordable. It follows that I cant fairly order it to refund any charges or interest or pay 
compensation. I also find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman