DRN-4070528
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limited because his motor 
insurance premium increased at renewal, with the policy having been set to auto-renew, 
which Mr R felt was unfair.
What happened
Mr R arranged a policy via Hastings in 2021. In 2022 he noted the premium had increased. 
He then noted the policy was due to auto-renew. He thought he had told Hastings 
specifically not to auto-renew the cover. He called it to say he did not want the policy to 
renew and was told hed have to speak to a different department. Mr R didnt think that was 
fair so he cancelled the payment arrangement at his bank. Hastings renewed the policy 
anyway. Once it had renewed, following various emails asking Mr R to make payment, the 
policy was cancelled at no charge to Mr R.
Hastings didnt think it had done anything wrong. It particularly noted that Mr R had agreed 
to the auto-renewal in the call setting up the cover. Mr R complained  he felt the 
auto-renewal should have been on an opt-in basis rather than opt-out. And that the 
auto-renewal coupled with the increased premium was an unfair business practice designed 
to keep and profit from unwary policyholders. He was also unhappy about how difficult it had 
been for him to try and stop the renewal.
When our Investigator approached Hastings, it said it should have let the policy lapse at 
renewal. Our Investigator felt Mr R had been put to a lot of trouble because Hastings had not 
done that. So he said it should pay £100 compensation, which Hastings agreed to. 
Another Investigator reviewed Mr Rs concerns about the premium pricing  he noted 
Hastings had not set the premium. He wasnt persuaded it had done anything wrong  noting 
that the policy paperwork had set out what the costs were, including highlighting that and last 
years price. He asked Hastings though to have the insurer change the record of cancellation 
to show it had lapsed at renewal or had been cancelled by Mr R. Hastings said it would 
amend Mr Rs record to show the policy had lapsed at renewal, and assured that no 
cancellation had been recorded externally. 
Mr R wasnt happy. He said Hastings must be involved in the pricing as otherwise the insurer 
offering cover would not know who was a new or returning customer. He felt there must be 
something happening thats unfairly causing costs to increase at renewal as the risk he 
presents had not changed from when Hastings had originally offered him a policy (at the 
price it had the year before).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Rs frustration here. But I dont think Hastings did anything wrong either 
in initially setting the policy on a course to auto-renew, or in respect of a higher premium 
being offered at renewal. It should though have actioned Mr Rs request to not renew the 
policy, rather than insisting he speak to a different department and refusing to action his 
reasonable request such that the policy renewed even when it knew that was explicitly 
against his wishes. 
Mr R arranged cover via Hastings. He was told in the arrangement call that the policy would 
auto-renew, and this was also featured in the policy documents he was sent. He was told he 
could opt out of that. There is nothing wrong with that  that is how Hastings chooses to do 
business and it was clear with Mr R about that. Mr R was free to tell it during the 
arrangement call that he did not want the policy to auto-renew, or to change his mind about 
taking out the policy. But Mr R agreed to the policy being set up on an auto-renewal basis. 
Before the policy was due to renew Mr R was sent documents by Hastings. These detailed 
the policy for the new year, including its price. They also highlighted the difference in cost 
between that year and the year before. They said Mr R might like to shop around. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), when it reviewed the issue of pricing  said that was 
what brokers and insurers should do  make it clear what the price was and highlight that 
policyholders could shop around. The FCA did not say that prices could not change or 
increase from the year before. 
Hastings, as a broker does not control the price set by the insurer. And nor is it bound to 
search the whole of the market and only offer a policyholder the lowest available price on 
offer to new policyholders. There, of course, will be contact between Hastings, as the broker, 
and the insurer that it offers a policy from, when the policy is arranged. And I dont doubt that 
contact will involve both Hastings and the insurer recognising whether the application has 
come from a new or existing customer. But it is the insurer which sets the premium, when 
the policy is arranged and at renewal, and all Hastings can do is offer that on to the 
policyholder. And the increase Mr R saw in 2022  £240.18 against £212.29 the year before 
 was all due to the premium. The premium itself increased from £162.30 to £190.19. The 
arrangement fee applied by Hastings of £20.00 stayed the same, as did the cost of the 
optional extra cover at £29.99. I cant see that Hastings has done anything wrong here.
When Mr R saw the increased premium he found cover at a lower cost elsewhere. And he 
was also unhappy about the auto-renewal. So he arranged the other cover and sought to 
cancel the auto-renewal of the Hastings policy. Hastings failed him in this respect. Mr R had 
contacted Hastings, in doing so it had checked it was speaking to the correct person, and he 
had made his wishes to it clear. That was all it should have taken. But Hastings wouldnt act 
to cancel the auto-renewal because it wanted Mr R to speak to the correct department. 
I think that was unreasonable of Hastings. This caused Mr Rs policy to renew when it should 
have lapsed instead. The policy was then cancelled but not without further correspondence 
being sent from it demanding payment. I think its only right that Hastings compensates Mr R 
by paying him £100 for the upset its failure caused him. 
I note that Hastings has now confirmed that Mr Rs record shows the policy lapsed at 
renewal, with no cancellation being recorded externally. That satisfactorily resets the 
situation, reflecting what should have been recorded had Hastings not failed Mr R when he 
initially tried to stop the policy renewing.  
Putting things right
I require Hastings to:
Pay Mr R £100 compensation.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Hasting Insurance Services Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting thing right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman