DRN-2869684
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to provide adequate assistance when 
he wanted to withdraw his Aegon funds and that this resulted in a loss of around £4,000.
What happened
On 13 March 2020 Mr K tried but failed to get through to Ms W, his personal advisor at 
Nationwide. He then called Aegon whose office was closed. He asked Nationwide for an 
alternative number for Aegon but he was still unable to reach anyone.
He called Nationwide back on 13 March and the agent confirmed that the Aegons offices 
had closed due to a deep clean and they were due to reopen on the following Monday  16 
March 2020. Mr K explained that he wanted to withdraw his funds and hadnt been able to 
contact his financial advisor or Aegon. The agent said he could use the Aegon portal to find 
out the value of his funds and make the withdrawal. Mr K said he was aware he could go 
online and make the withdrawal, but he wasnt sure how much his funds would be valued at 
and was worried about a further decrease. 
The agent confirmed she wasnt able to offer advice on this and said she would email Ms W 
to give him a call him back. On 14 March 2020 Mr K called Nationwide complaints 
department to say he still hadnt received a call from his personal advisor. The agent 
explained that Ms W had taken sudden compassionate leave and there wasnt anyone else 
in her office that was able to assist at the time. The agent then found a financial advisor in 
another branch and arranged for a call back on 16 March 2020.
However, Mr K  in the meantime - got through to Aegon and placed instructions to sell his 
investments. Mr K subsequently spoke with this other advisor and says he was unhappy with 
the information he provided as it conflicted with that received from Aegon regarding the date 
his funds would be valued.
Mr K said that despite putting in instructions to withdraw his funds on 16 March 2020, Aegon 
used 16 March and 17 March 2020 as valuation dates, contrary to what Nationwides advisor 
had told him.
An investigator at this service did not feel Mr Ks complaint should be upheld, saying to Mr K:
The circumstances in March 2020, (meant) the coronavirus pandemic had an impact on 
all industries, which meant unexpected disruption to services occurred. In light of this, I 
cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for the sudden closure of Aegons offices. While I 
appreciate Nationwide provided you with a number which wasnt helpful, ultimately, as 
Aegons office was closed, you wouldnt have been able to contact them until the 
following Monday.
You said that you found it unreasonable that there wasnt an answerphone message 
explaining the absence of (Ms W) or a colleague in place to help assist her customers. 
Having listened to the calls on 13 and 14 March 2020, I can appreciate the frustration of 
not being able to get through to your financial advisor, to help explain your withdrawal 
options. However, Ms W had taken sudden compassionate leave, considering these 
circumstances, I dont find it unreasonable that there werent arrangements in place for 
this unforeseen situation.
I do understand it was frustrating that you werent given this information on 13 March 
2020 when you called, however as the agent emailed Ms W on 13 March 2020, it 
wouldnt have been possible for her to know the details surrounding (her) absence. This 
was explained to you during the call with the agent on 14 March 2020, so an arrangement 
was made for another financial advisor to step in.
Nationwide have explained that withdrawal instructions for your Aegon account couldnt 
have been placed over the phone. I note youve said that you initially invested in this 
platform with Legal and General before Aegon took over the platform, because you 
thought youd be able to withdraw your funds over the phone. While I dont doubt the 
conversation between you and your financial advisor at the time, Ive had a look at the 
terms of your account when you opened it in 2016. I cant see that sections B16 and B18, 
which refers to the withdrawal of funds, specifically guarantees that requests can be 
made over the phone.
Ive attached a copy of the terms and conditions for your consideration.
In addition to this, Nationwide has let us know Aegon customers were informed of the 
new online customer dashboard portal where investment transactions could take place. 
Nationwide has also said they let their customers know via their website that withdrawals 
could be made online.
I do note on the call dated 13 March 2020 that you were made aware that you could 
make the withdrawal online and you confirmed that you already knew this. However you 
felt speaking with a member of staff at Aegon or Nationwide before making a withdrawal. 
While I understand that you would have preferred to speak with someone immediately, 
with the closure of Aegon, only trained members of staff at Nationwide were able to give 
you advise on your portfolio and for the reasons explained above, this option was only 
available to you on 16 March 2020 at 3.30pm.
Youve told us that before your appointment with (another advisor) on 16 March 2020, you 
were able to speak with Aegon and a member of staff was able to assist with the 
withdrawal using their online platform. However, when you spoke with , you were given 
conflicting information from what you were told by Aegon regarding the timescales and 
valuation date.
Please note that Nationwide doesnt have a copy of this call, as branch calls werent 
being recorded at the time. However, Ive obtained this advisors recollection of the call. 
He explained that regarding the timeframes, youd been told by Aegon that a value 
couldnt be given as it took up to 15 days to release the funds and the value could be 
anything within that timeframe. This advisor explained that the value is based on the day 
the instruction is received and suggested that the member of staff at Aegon didnt 
understand the process. Having considered what you were told by this advisor, coupled 
with the dates your funds were valued  16 and 17 March 2020, I cant say that he 
provided you with incorrect information.
Generally speaking, the time of day on the date a withdrawal is made, will determine 
whether the valuation of the fund would be the same day or the next day. However, I should mention that if you believe that Aegon has used an incorrect valuation date, this is 
something that youd need to take up with their service and not Nationwide.
Having taken the above into consideration, I dont believe that Nationwide has treated 
you unfairly or unreasonably. I believe that its unreasonable for me to hold them 
responsible for the unforeseen circumstances of one of their members having to take 
compassionate leave and also the closure of the Aegon office.
In the absence of your financial advisor, they provided you with an appointment with 
another advisor on the next available date  16 March 2020. In this time, I think its 
reasonable to say you could have proceeded with making the withdrawal online, if you 
were concerned about the decreasing value of your funds.
Also, while making a withdrawal is ultimately a decision for you to make, you took the 
decision to withdraw before you were able to receive advice from the advisor, so I cant 
say any information he gave you influenced your decision.
Mr K disagreed, and said:
A large business should have a back-up plan for when an individual advisor is off 
sick; customers should not have to simply wait till they return, however long that 
might be  possibly weeks or months
When he took out the investment he told his advisor, Ms W, that he did not use 
computers and was concerned about how he could withdraw funds; she told him he 
could get a valuation and withdraw funds the same day via phone
L&Gs terms and conditions confirm this. These were changed when his investment 
was taken over by Aegon but he was never asked to approve of these changes
Aegon said that it could take 10 to 15 days to complete the transaction, and so the 
current price/value could not be guaranteed; but Nationwides advisor said this wasnt 
correct and that he would receive the valuation quoted at the point he submitted the 
sale instruction
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, there is little I 
can add to whats already been explained.
I recognise Mr K is very unhappy that he was not able to encash his investment as soon as 
became worried about its falling value and that he understandably wanted to do so by 
phone. But I do not think the evidence indicates that Nationwide did anything wrong.
I acknowledge that Mr K recollects that his advisor told him at the outset that he could make 
any encashment requests via phone but Ive not seen sufficient evidence to safely conclude 
that he was promised this or that it was stated in any terms and conditions.
I dont believe that Nationwides responses or its response times were unreasonable, 
particularly given the sudden Covid impact on businesses explained by it. I dont believe it 
was required to provide an instant alternative when one of its specific advisors becomes 
unavailable at short notice. Had Mr K been forced to wait weeks or months to speak to another advisor this delay would, 
in my view, have been unacceptable. But in fact Nationwide arranged for him to speak to 
another advisor within 48 hours; in effect, the next working day. I dont believe this 
represents unreasonable customer service.
If Aegons representative said it could take 10 to 15 days to finalise the amount Mr K would 
receive, s/he was incorrect. Nationwides advisor subsequently correctly explained that the 
sum received will be based on the current valuation, which may be caluclated as of 12 noon 
the following day depending on what time the surrender instruction is received.
I cannot comment on whether Mr K should consider complaining about Aegon, something 
which would need to be done as a separate complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman