DRN-2872631
The complaint
Mr H, as a director of G, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus (Cashplus) wont refund him the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
What Mr H says
Mr H says he was cold called by a company Ill call company A in the summer of 2018. 
Company A offered Mr H a cryptocurrency investment opportunity which promised good 
returns and was protected by the FSCS. 
Mr H says he was persuaded to invest based on a total credit refund model which required a 
minimum investment of £5,000. This model required Mr H not to withdraw any funds for a 
90-day period, at the end of which he was guaranteed to get his original investment back. He 
would also receive any profit made in the period. Mr H was also offered a bonus scheme 
which meant that company A would match his investment capital to maximise profit returns. 
This meant that if Mr H invested £5,000 a bonus of £5,000 would be added to his account by 
company A. Experienced professional traders would actively manage his investment 
portfolio by executing three or four trades a day using a small proportion (1 to 2%) of the 
original amount invested. 
Mr H says he completed extensive enquiries in to company A before he first invested 
because he wanted to ensure that company A was genuine. He says he checked the 
following:
- Its website (which was active at the time but isnt now);
- Its Facebook page, on which he saw information about cryptocurrencies, pictures of 
coins and no negative publicity;
- An internet search which found no adverse publicity;
- The FCA website for information about cryptocurrencies to understand how they 
work and because it was a new area of investment for him. Mr H says he saw that 
the FCA regulates certain investment opportunities including cryptocurrencies;
- The FCA scam warning list which didnt have an entry in relation to A.
After completing these checks Mr H invested £5,000 on 2 August 2018. Company A had a 
compliance department, verification process and checked whether the investment was 
affordable based on Mr Hs financial circumstances, making him feel it was genuine. Mr H 
was able to see how his investment was performing on an online trading platform. He says 
this showed good returns of between 30 and 50% a week. Mr H was told if he invested more 
the total credit refund period would be extended and his returns would increase as the 
percentage gain would increase with a greater sum invested.
Company A directed Mr H to make the following payments in to what were described to him 
as FCA regulated escrow accounts:
Date Amount Recipient
02/08/18 £5,000 X
22/08/18 £2,970 Y
03/09/18 £5,000 returned by 
Cashplus
14/09/18 £9,150 Z 
17/09/18 £8,750 Z
18/09/18 £7,100 Z
30/10/18 £10,000 Z
31/10/18 £8,500 Z
01/11/18 £8,500 Z
Total £54,970
Less sums later 
refunded from Z£27,000
Total outstanding £27,970
Z is a foreign exchange company. 
After making the payments Mr H says an analyst at company A called him weekly and if Mr 
H called company A then a professional sounding receptionist transferred him to an analyst. 
In these calls Mr H was told how his investments were performing and he says the 
information he was given in calls matched what he was able to view on an online platform he 
had access to.
Mr H was later advised of a new investment opportunity and invested further funds from a 
different account. A complaint about these payments has been considered separately. 
In February 2019 Mr H wished to withdraw Gs money but received no response from 
company A and realised hed been the victim of a sophisticated scam. Mr H says it was at 
that stage he found out company A wasnt a genuine investment company. There was a 
genuine company with a very similar name to company A (one letter different) but it wasnt 
an investment company. He reported the scam to Cashplus on 23 February 2019. 
Mr H would like Cashplus to return £29,970 to him. He says the payments he made werent 
in line with normal spending on the account and Cashplus should have contacted him about 
them. Cashplus also returned £5,000 on 3 September 2018 but didnt notify him of this or 
provide an explanation. Had it done so Mr H says he would have been prevented from 
making further payments. Mr H also says Cashplus delayed starting the indemnity claim 
process by around 11 weeks. In addition, Mr H would like Cashplus to compensate him for 
the financial and psychological distress and inconvenience its actions have caused him. 
What Cashplus say
Cashplus issued its final response in May 2019. It said Mr H contacted it on 23 February 
2019 to report the fraud. On 7 March 2019 the transactions made on 30 and 31 October and 
1 November 2018 (totalling £27,000) were refunded to Mr H. Cashplus also noted that on 3 
September 2018 the £5,000 payment made to X was refunded to Mr Hs account.
Cashplus went on to say it contacted the receiving bank for the payments to Z on 4 March 
2019, but it was told by this bank on 13 May no indemnity claim had been received. At that 
stage Cashplus said some funds remained, but it didnt know how much. Cashplus 
apologised for the delay and said it wasnt sure if it was the fault of the receiving bank or 
Cashplus. It noted Mr H had made multiple calls and not received a lot of information from Cashplus and offered a £40 distress and inconvenience payment and to refund the annual 
business account fee of £69. The last three payments to Z were later returned to G. 
Mr H says he had no knowledge the £5,000 credited to his account on 3 September 2018 
was a refund of the payment he made to X. He says if Cashplus had notified him of this and 
explained it hed have been prevented from making further payments. He received previous 
credits where the reference started with Bank and the returned payment on 3 September 
also started with this word.
Our investigation so far
I wont go in to any detail about what the investigator said in her opinion as both parties have 
had the opportunity to review her findings. In summary, the investigator said Cashplus 
should have identified the payments Mr H made as unusual or out of character and asked 
him some questions about the purpose of them. But she felt that even if Cashplus had done 
so, the scam would not have been uncovered and Mr H would still have made the payments. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said:
- Although the investigator said shed taken in to account relevant law, regulations and 
codes she hadnt. Mr H cited numerous acts, principles and codes he feels should be 
taken in to account. He also said the investigator and Cashplus failed to consider the 
Quincecare duty.  
- Mr H referred to FCA Principles 2 and 6 and said Cashplus should have taken 
proactive steps to help to identify potential fraud and been on the look-out for unusual 
or out of character transactions. He referred particularly to the BSI Code. 
- The first payment was large and out of character given his recent account activity. He 
was also paying a new payee, which was unusual. 
- Cashplus failed in its duty of care to him by failing to recognise a fraudulent payment 
and failed in its legal obligation to deter and detect financial crime and failed to 
provide a strong customer authentication procedure.  
- The conclusion that he would have invested even if Cashplus had intervened was 
incorrect and based on subjective views only. 
- Cashplus has failed in its duty to make reasonable efforts to recover his funds. 
- He believed he was dealing with an FCA regulated firm. If Cashplus had complied 
with its obligations, hed have known it was a scam and not made the payments. 
- He completed various checks to satisfy himself the company he was investing in was 
genuine and he wasnt being scammed. The fact he took these steps shows he was 
concerned and would not have gone ahead if he thought there was a risk. 
- Mr H referred to PSR 2017 and said he hadnt authorised the payments as the 
investigator concluded because the payment wasnt received by the beneficiary for 
the purpose he intended.
- The investigator was wrong to say it wasnt Cashplus responsibility to establish with 
absolute certainty whether the payment was genuine, but that Cashplus should have 
asked proportionate questions. 
- Mr H was not experienced in this type of investment and had a low attitude to 
investment risk. Cashplus staff would have much greater knowledge, so had 
questions been asked he would have been able to identify this was a scam. 
- Further questions from Cashplus would have established he was cold called, 
communication was by email and the literature he was provided with wasnt genuine. 
Mr H said had he been asked to provide the documents hed received Cashplus 
advanced fraud detection processes, tools and software would have established he 
was not investing in a genuine company. - The investigator referred to the investment platform that looked genuine and like 
other platforms hed seen before, but he hadnt seen other platforms as he hadnt 
invested in any activity like the one proposed. 
- Mr H thinks he should be awarded compensation for the psychological and emotional 
distress and inconvenience the matter has caused him. 
I issued my first provisional findings on 8 April 2021 and asked Cashplus to refund Gs 
losses in full together with interest at 8% simple per year from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement. I said the first £5,000 payment was unusual and out of character and 
Cashplus should have asked questions about it. Had it done so I felt on balance the scam 
would have been uncovered and the payment wouldnt have been made. I also noted this 
first payment was later refunded to G. Mr H, on behalf of G, agreed with my provisional 
findings but Cashplus didnt. One of the points it made in response was that G is described 
as a Financial Services Company so my comment that Mr H wasnt experienced in this 
type of investment was surprising.  
After reviewing the responses to my provisional decision, I issued a further provisional 
decision. I upheld Gs complaint for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision 
of 8 April 2021 but reduced the award I made to G by 50%. I did so after reviewing Gs 
website and in particular the profile of Mr H as managing director. This referred to his 
extensive investment experience. Given this, I felt Mr H should reasonably have known that 
the deal offered by company A, including the rate of return, the lack of risk and the 50% 
bonus was unrealistic and too good to be true. I went on to say that Mr H should also have 
been aware that the company he looked up on the Companies House website with a similar 
name to company A wasnt an investment company and that the checks he completed 
before investing didnt go far enough.
Cashplus responded to my second provisional decision and said Mr H had omitted crucial 
factual information and not been truthful about his investment experience. It suggested that 
he hadnt fallen victim to a scam but had made a poor investment choice using business 
funds. Cashplus went on to provide information from its analytics department which it said 
showed Gs first payment of £5,000 wasnt unusual. It referred to average payments in two 
categories  banks and management consultancy activities  of £2,271 and £1,505 and also 
provided deviation figures.
Mr H, on behalf of G, raised multiple points in respect of my provisional decision of 20 May 
2021. He referred to his response to the investigators opinion when he raised approximately 
39 points in support of his belief that Cashplus should refund him in full and repeated several 
of them including reference to regulations, codes and industry practice. I included some of 
these points above when I discussed Mr Hs response to my provisional decision. I have 
summarised below some of Mr Hs points that I consider to be most relevant.
- Cashplus failed in its duty to protect him from fraud. They were the experts but didnt 
ask questions or provide any warnings. 
- He doesnt agree that if hed been alerted to the possibility of fraud hed have gone 
ahead and invested Gs funds anyway. His actions and behavior when he realised he 
may be a victim of fraud are proof that if Cashplus had acted appropriately he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments. 
- Cryptocurrency was a new area of investment for him and he had no experience in it, 
so he wasnt able to determine if an investment opportunity was too good to be true. 
Mr H also said he had a low attitude to risk and was relying on analysts at company 
A because of his lack of experience. Given these points his actions dont fall below 
what could be expected of a reasonable person.
- He doesnt agree he should be held partially responsible. G focuses primarily on management consultancy services around transformation programs and is not a 
financial services company. The word extensive on Gs website isnt used to 
indicate or imply that Mr H has extensive investment experience but to imply that he 
has experience of working on a range of transformation programmes and projects 
that could touch on investment and related areas. 
- Mr H referred to a newspaper article that he says shows Cashplus accounts are often 
used by fraudsters, to a spokesperson for PSR in respect of consumers still bearing 
a high proportion of losses, a quote from the Chief Executive of the Lending 
Standards Board and to another bank that offers a fraud guarantee.
- Mr H says Cashplus recovery failings should lead me to conclude G should be 
refunded in full.
- On a fair and reasonable basis G should be refunded in full.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Cashplus should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Cashplus acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr H when he authorised payments from Gs account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. That is a question of fact and degree
depending on the circumstances of each individual case. 
Mr H has raised complaint points about other financial businesses. Im only considering his 
complaint against Cashplus so will not comment on these other complaints. And although Mr H raised a lot of points in response to the investigators opinion and my provisional decision 
of 20 May 2021, Ive focused on what I consider to be most relevant. Ive also focused on the 
individual facts of Gs complaint so will not be commenting on the newspaper article referred 
to by Mr H, on general comments about scams from other parties or the approach taken by 
other financial institutions. 
Did Cashplus act fairly and reasonably in Mr Hs case?
As I said, I first need to consider whether the transfers Mr H made were unusual or out of 
character. In doing so, Im mindful of the fact the account was a business account, which is 
generally used differently to a personal account. 
The account was opened in October 2017 and a set-up fee of £69 was paid and refunded. 
There were then a number of significant payments in to the account amounting to over 
£32,000. The last credit was for £5,000 on 24 July 2018 before the first scam payment of 
£5,000 on 2 August 2018 to a new payee. So, in around ten months there were no payments 
from the account other than the refunded £69 set-up fee. In the circumstances I consider a 
payment of £5,000 was unusual and uncharacteristic and Cashplus should have asked Mr H 
some questions, whether Cashplus systems picked it up or not. When the account was set 
up it was said to be a savings account. The analytics information Cashplus has provided 
doesnt alter my opinion, as the important factor is whether the payment was unusual given 
Gs previous account and payment history  not whether it was in line with average spending 
for similar accounts. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by Cashplus would have made a difference in this case. Mr 
H has said the investigator was wrong to say Cashplus should have asked proportionate 
questions and didnt have a responsibility to establish with absolute certainty whether the 
payment was genuine. I disagree. Id expect Cashplus to ask probing questions with the aim 
of uncovering a potential scam, to have alerted Mr H to the fact investment scams took place 
and to provide appropriate scam warnings. 
I consider Cashplus should have asked Mr H how he found out about the investment 
opportunity, what the investment was and some information about it, the rate of return and 
whether hed checked the FCA register. Mr H would have said he received an unsolicited 
call in the summer of 2018 when he decided to invest in cryptocurrencies for the first time. 
Although investing in cryptocurrency is renowned to be risky, Mr H would have said he was 
investing without any risk. The email he received before he invested said,
The realistic earning potential with a £10,000 account doing £200 trades is £160 profit per 
trade and even if we only have a 81.7% success rate you will still look to achieve weekly 
profits in the region of £250 - £550 depending on how often we trade.
This is a very high rate of return, particularly for an investment Mr H said involved no 
associated risk. In terms of FCA registration, Mr H would have said hed read some general 
information about cryptocurrencies on the FCA website and looked at the scam warning list. 
He hadnt checked whether company A was FCA registered though. All of these factors 
would have rung alarm bells if questions had been asked
I consider that although this was a sophisticated scam the information Mr H would have 
provided to Cashplus about the proposed investment was implausible and suspicious. 
Cashplus were the experts in this case and would have been aware of the prevalence of 
investment scams of this nature, where an individual receives an unsolicited call and is 
persuaded to invest in either a fake or cloned investment company. The fact Mr H said the investment was offered on the basis there was no risk of loss and company A was adding a 
50% bonus makes it even more implausible. (Whilst Mr H has been clear throughout this 
services investigation that the investment was offered with a guarantee all his funds would 
be returned after 90 days irrespective of trading performance this isnt what the document Mr 
H signed says. The guarantee actually says that if at any point in the first 90 days the client 
incurs a loss of capital company A would refund the entire amount back in to the trading 
account for a second bite at the cherry. But Im persuaded Mr H was told and believed all 
of Gs funds would be returned, and this is what hed have told Cashplus, if asked.)
I see no reason why Mr H wouldnt have taken Cashplus warnings seriously if hed been 
cautioned to consider and check the legitimacy of the investment before proceeding. 
Company A was a fake investment company and I think this could have been established 
quickly. There is a company registered at Companies House with a name similar to company 
A, but its not an investment company and so is not FCA registered. So, on balance, I think if 
an appropriate warning had been given Mr H wouldnt have made the first payment of 
£5,000. 
I dont agree with Cashplus assertion that Mr H, on behalf of G, wasnt scammed but made 
a poor investment choice. Mr H has provided a police report prepared in November 2019 
which refers to multiple victims and suspects. The report says, Based on my investigation to 
date, I can safely conclude [Mr H] is a fraud victim. 
I havent gone on to discuss the later payments because if the spell had been broken and 
the payment discussed above not been made then it follows the other transfers wouldnt 
have happened either. So I think Cashplus should also refund the later payments. I will just 
comment that by the payment on 14 September 2018 the payment amounts had risen 
substantially so the payments were even more unusual and out of character.
There is a further point Id like to discuss. After Mr H made the second payment the first 
payment of £5,000 was refunded to Gs account, but Mr H says he wasnt aware of this. Ive 
asked Cashplus about this payment and understand that it was made to another Cashplus 
account that was closed and this is why the funds were returned. Cashplus explained it 
wasnt its normal procedure to notify a customer when funds are returned. The funds were 
returned with the reference BANK ADVANCED ADVANCED, which Cashplus believe 
shows the credit is from Cashplus.  
Whilst I consider Mr H should have noticed this credit and asked questions if he wasnt sure 
of its origin, I think that after returning it Cashplus should have been more alert to the 
possibility of fraud, particularly given that the transfer amounts increased after the £5,000 
payment was returned. This point adds weight to my conclusion Cashplus should refund Gs 
lost funds. 
Was Mr H also at fault?
Having reviewed the responses from both parties I still think Cashplus shouldnt refund Gs 
losses in full. Whilst I accept that Mr H hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and may not 
have had any experience of this particular type of investment, Im persuaded he had 
sufficient investment knowledge to know that investing in cryptocurrency is inherently risky. 
He has told this service that he read the general information about cryptocurrency on the 
FCA website. Whilst I cant be sure what the FCA website said at the time I think its more 
likely than not that it referred to the fact that investing in cryptocurrency involves high risks. 
The FCA website currently says, cryptoassets are considered very high risk, speculative 
investments. Even if similar information wasnt on the FCA website at the time (which I consider to be 
unlikely) I consider that Mr H should reasonably have been aware of the high risks 
associated with investing in cryptocurrency. Mr Hs personal profile on Gs website says Mr 
H, has extensive financial planninginvestment, complianceexperience and refers to the 
fact hes worked for major investment banks in the UK and abroad. Given Mr Hs extensive 
investment experience I consider he should reasonably have known that the deal offered by 
company A, and in particular the lack of risk, was unrealistic and too good to be true. Mr H 
should reasonably have been aware that investing in cryptocurrency is inherently risky.
Whilst I accept that Mr H doesnt give investment advice in his role as a director of G, I dont 
agree with his interpretation of what his profile on Gs website says. Mr H has used the word 
imply, but I feel the profile is clear that Mr H has investment experience. In these 
circumstances Im not persuaded he shouldnt have known that investing in cryptocurrency 
on a low or no risk basis wasnt realistic. 
Given his experience, I also think Mr H should have recognised that the company he looked 
up on the Companies House website with a very similar name to company A wasnt an 
investment company and that the other checks he completed didnt go far enough. In the 
circumstances, I consider it fair and reasonable to ask Cashplus to pay 50% of Gs losses. 
Recovery
Im not satisfied that Cashplus acted promptly once Mr H notified it of the fraud. But given 
that Mr H, on behalf of G, reported the scam to Cashplus over five months after the first 
scam payment and over three months after the last scam payment I consider it most unlikely 
that any further funds would have remained if Cashplus had taken prompt and appropriate 
action when the scam was reported. This is because scammers usually remove funds very 
quickly  usually within hours.
Three different banks received Gs funds in respect of payments to X, Y and Z. As Ive 
mentioned before, the £5,000 payment to X was later returned to G. The receiving bank for 
Y confirmed that no funds remained. Turning to the payments to Z, although Mr H notified 
Cashplus of the scam on 23 February 2019 no action was taken until 4 March when 
Cashplus called the receiving bank. Cashplus was asked to send an indemnity, but it 
appears this was sent to an incorrect email address and so wasnt received until some 
months later. So Cashplus didnt act promptly. But the reason the last three payments made 
to G were returned was because the account was under review from October 2018 and on 
completion of this review these payments were returned. So I dont believe that the 
payments G made prior to October 2018 would have been available to return to G when the 
scam was reported in February 2019. 
Compensation
Ive also considered whether Cashplus should pay Mr H further compensation to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of its actions. I appreciate that 
the scammers are the ones responsible for the majority of the upset Mr H has suffered. But 
this complaint is brought by G, which is a separate legal entity to Mr H and cant suffer 
distress or inconvenience. So Im not making an additional award for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Overall, for the reasons set out above, I consider Cashplus should have done more to 
protect Gs funds but that in all the circumstances of the case it is fair and reasonable to 
award 50% of Gs losses.   
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus should:
- Refund G £13,985;
- Add interest to the above at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement. If Cashplus deducts tax from this interest, it 
should provide an appropriate tax deduction certificate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman