DRN-3318151
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is that Barclays Bank UK Plc refused to extend the term of their 
mortgage. They say this wasnt fair. Mr and Mrs D are also unhappy about the way Barclays 
dealt with their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D subsequently took out an equity release mortgage to repay their mortgage to 
Barclays. To settle the complaint, they want Barclays to pay the early repayment charge 
(ERC) on their equity release mortgage (£24,380), all fees incurred (£2,619) plus two years 
of interest totalling £9,607, in addition to compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I dont need to set out the full background of what led to the complaint being raised. There 
are several reasons for this. First, the full history of the matter is set out in correspondence 
between Mr and Mrs D and Barclays. Secondly, our investigator gave the full background in 
his correspondence with the parties. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important 
that I dont include in this decision any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs D being 
identified. So for these reasons, I will set out only brief details of what happened.
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with Barclays taken out in 2008 over a period of ten years. 
They borrowed £500,000 over a period of ten years. The mortgage reached the end of its 
term in November 2018, at which point Mr and Mrs D were required to repay the capital of 
£500,000.
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs D applied for a term extension. They intended to sell the 
property in about two years time, but needed to complete renovations to the property. They 
were told by Barclays that the minimum term was five years. However, the application was 
declined because Mr and Mrs D didnt meet Barclays lending criteria. Barclays had an age 
cap of 70 years on its mortgage lending, and at the time Mr and Mrs D were aged 67. As a 
result a five-year term extension would take Mr and Mrs D over the age limit. Barclays also 
noted there was a restriction on the sale of the property, which did not expire until 7 July 
2019.
Given that there was likely to be substantial equity in the property at the point when it could 
be sold, Barclays considered whether a two-year term extension could be granted, but, after 
calculating affordability, this was declined. However, in January 2019 Barclays agreed to 
refer the matter to its internal panel to see if Mr and Mrs D could be given an extension until 
July 2019 so they could market the property. 
An immediate decision could not be given, however, because there were questions about 
the re-construction of the property which required a surveyor to answer. Barclays instructed 
a surveyor, and the report was received by Barclays on 24 April 2019. Once Barclays had 
been satisfied on the condition of the property, the bank would then be able to consider 
whether a term extension to allow a sale of the property could be considered as an 
exception to its normal lending criteria.
However, on 25 April 2019 a redemption statement was requested, followed by a further 
request on 1 May 2019. The mortgage to Barclays was repaid on 8 May 2019. 
Mr and Mrs D complained to Barclays. They were unhappy that theyd been told they had to 
pay £8,000 per month for the mortgage, which, in its final response letter dated 
27 December 2019, Barclays acknowledged was incorrect. Barclays offered compensation 
of £250 for the poor customer service Mr and Mrs D had been given. Barclays also offered 
compensation of £150 for delay in responding to the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D made another complaint, because of delay by Barclays in escalating the case 
internally. As a result, Mr and Mrs D were caused distress by receiving contact from 
Barclays suggesting that possession action might be taken. Barclays paid an additional £450 
compensation for this, which Mr and Mrs D accepted. 
Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Barclays could have looked at a shorter term extension than its five-year minimum, and that 
it could have waived the affordability assessment. But he didnt think extending the term 
would have been in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests, given the uncertainty of the length of time 
it might take to sell the property. Consequently, he didnt think Barclays needed to do 
anything further.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They say that the bank was clearly negligent and they thought the 
Financial Ombudsman Service would be looking to penalise Barclays with the additional cost 
to Mr and Mrs D. After defaulting on the mortgage, Mr and Mrs D say they werent able to 
get a mortgage anywhere else, and so their only options were to sell the property (which 
they couldnt do until July 2019) or to take out an equity release mortgage. This was an 
expensive option and only one provider would agree to lend to Mr and Mrs D, because here 
were nine other people living in the property who were their dependants. Mr and Mrs D 
believe Barclays acted unfairly in rejecting their request for a term extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Given this, although Ive noted what Mr and Mrs D have said about wanting us to penalise 
Barclays, I dont have any power to fine, penalise or punish Barclays. 
Ive reviewed everything the parties have said, and Ive also looked at the mortgage 
regulations applicable to this matter. (The investigator set out full details of those in his 
letters to the parties, so I dont need to repeat them here.)
Ill explain first that Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and I dont have any 
power to interfere with that. Ive seen a copy of Barclays lending criteria (which I have accepted in confidence, as it is commercially sensitive). Barclays does not allow an interest-
only mortgage to extend beyond a customers 70th birthday. 
Thats a matter for Barclays commercial judgment. With that said, Id expect Barclays to 
consider requests and applications on their own individual merits and to consider making 
exceptions where appropriate.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments  including around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this which allow some of these 
new rules, particularly around affordability assessments, to be set aside in certain 
circumstances, if the change being requested to a mortgage was in the customers best 
interests. 
Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the criteria are met  
on grounds of affordability or interest only repayment strategy. 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage falls into the category of an agreement under which certain new 
rules relating to affordability can be set aside. This is because it was taken out before April 
2014, was secured by a first charge on their property and they werent looking to borrow any 
additional money. So, if the transaction was in their best interests, Barclays could decide to 
allow the term extension without applying the rules. And Ive thought about whether it 
shouldve done so here.
I dont think Barclays was unreasonable in refusing the five-year term extension. This would 
have taken Mr and Mrs D over the age limit for interest-only mortgage lending, and so wasnt 
declined on the basis of affordability. But Barclays did agree to consider an exception for a 
short-term extension to give Mr and Mrs D time to sell. This needed to be referred to its 
internal panel, as it was outside standard lending policy. 
I can see the exception took longer than anticipated for Barclays to consider, due to the 
need for a surveyor to inspect the property, which had been completely rebuilt from the 
ground up since Barclays had granted the original mortgage. Again, I dont think this was 
unreasonable, as the security was substantially different from the original.
Ultimately, however, Barclays did not get to the point of deciding whether an exception 
should be made to its lending policy. Thats because Mr and Mrs D decided to explore other 
options, and took out an equity release mortgage. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs D have said 
about this  that they felt pressured by Barclays persistent reinforcement that they might 
lose the property. But Barclays is required by mortgage regulations to ensure Mr and Mrs D 
were aware of the consequences of not repaying the mortgage, and that they were in default 
as theyd not made the final repayment. So although I acknowledge this was upsetting for 
Mr and Mrs D, I dont think it was wrong of Barclays to do this.
It was Mr and Mrs Ds decision to take out the equity release mortgage, and I would have 
expected them to have had independent financial advice before doing so. If there are ERCs 
or other expenses arising from this mortgage, it would be up to Mr and Mrs D to take advice about these before committing themselves to it., particularly if they intended to sell the 
property. Equity release mortgages are not designed to be short-term loans. I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for the decision to repay the mortgage with an equity release loan, or 
for any consequential cost to Mr and Mrs D.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs D werent able to complete on a sale of the property until July 
2019. However, this is a substantial, unusual property which Mr and Mrs D estimate to be 
worth around £10 million. In the circumstances, I think its unlikely it would have been subject 
to a quick sale because the number of interested potential buyers was likely to be limited. 
Given that it would probably have taken several months to sell, it was always open to 
Mr and Mrs D to have put the property on the market before the mortgage term ended in 
November 2018, contingent on completion not taking place until after July 2019. 
After careful consideration of everything thats happened, I dont think Barclays has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably  other than the customer service issues for which the bank has 
already paid compensation to Mr and Mrs D. In the circumstances, I can find no basis on 
which Barclays should be required to pay any of the expenses Mr and Mrs D have incurred 
(or may incur in the future) in relation to their equity release mortgage, or any further 
compensation for distress or inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman