DRN-4076178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain about how Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited administered 
their whole of life policy when a review was missed.
What happened
In early 2023 Scottish Friendly wrote to Mr and Mrs Z saying there had been an issue with 
their whole of life policy. An administration error meant that the policy shouldve lapsed back 
in September 2021. Because of this they refunded the premiums that had been collected 
since that time. 
Mr and Mrs Z complained and Scottish Friendly looked into what happened. They explained 
a review of the policy shouldve taken place in 2021 and they offered £200 as an apology. 
They also conducted a retrospective review of the policy and gave three options moving 
forward none of which Mr and Mrs Z wanted to accept so they brought the complaint to our 
service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought the offer of £200 and the options of 
how to move forward were a fair resolution of the complaint. Mr and Mrs Z disagreed saying 
they wanted a larger amount of compensation.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Z have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure Mr and Mrs Z that Ive read 
and considered everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised some things which reflects the informal nature of our service.
All parties agree that Scottish Friendly made an error and a review wasnt conducted when it 
shouldve been. So my role is to see if the way Scottish Friendly have offered to put things 
right is fair and reasonable. And looking at everything I think it is.
When a mistake happens a business should, as much as possible, put the customer back in 
the position they would be in had the mistake not occurred. And Im satisfied thats what 
Scottish Friendly have offered to do here.
Scottish Friendly have offered Mr and Mrs Z three options:
- Return the refund and proceed with the same level of cover and with new premium
- Return the refund and proceed with the new level of cover for the current premium
- Keep the refund and allow the policy to lapse
Alongside this they have offered to pay £200 as an apology for the inconvenience of what 
happened. Scottish Widows also said that if either of the first two options were chosen the 
policy would be subject to further reviews in the future which is how the product works.
Having looked at these options I think it is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. 
The first two options are what shouldve been available at the time of the missed review. So 
it offers to put Mr and Mrs Z back in the position they would be in had the review taken place 
when it should have. I think its also fair to allow them to keep the refund and let the policy 
lapse if they choose to. 
Im also satisfied the £200 is fair for the inconvenience caused. The problem shouldnt have 
happened which is upsetting, and its taken some time to sort things out. 
Mr and Mrs Z have said they want substantial compensation of over £27,000 however I dont 
think this would be a fair resolution. Its not our role to punish a business for making 
mistakes and nor is it our role to advocate for consumers. And that proposal is not how the 
policy works so it wouldnt be fair of me to recommend that. 
It seems that the proposal from Mr and Mrs Z likely comes from dissatisfaction with how the 
policy works in general. However this complaint is about the consequences of the missed 
review and so thats what Ive looked at. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the offer from Scottish 
Friendly is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint. 
Putting things right
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr and Mrs Z £200 for the 
inconvenience of what happened. 
If Mr and Mrs Z want to accept either of the first two options presented they should contact 
Scottish Friendly. 
My final decision
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr and Mrs Z 
£200 regardless of which option they choose.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman