DRN-2475344
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his household insurance policy with AXA 
Insurance UK Plc. He is unhappy that AXA declined his claim for damage to his roof.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr B contacted AXA to make a claim for damage to his home. He explained 
that part of the render on the rear wall, near the roof, was coming off. He thought there might 
be an issue with the roof. During the conversation Mr B confirmed that hed done no 
maintenance to the roof since hed bought the property in 2006. AXA explained to him that it 
would come out to look at Mr Bs home, but if it was found that the cause of the damage was 
wear and tear, it wouldnt be covered. 
AXA sent out a surveyor to assess the damage to the property. It was concluded that the 
damage was due to a natural breakdown of the materials of the roof, rather than an insured 
cause. The photographs taken at the time showed an area of render that had fallen from the 
rear wall of the outrigger, missing pointing along ridge tiles, slipped tiles and guttering in 
need of repair and clearance. It was also clear, due to mis-matching tiles, that the roof had 
been repaired in various areas in the past. There was no internal damage at the time of 
inspection. 
The claim was declined as the surveyor was satisfied the roof hadnt been damaged by a 
single identifiable incident that was covered by the policy. The damage was put down to a 
natural breakdown of materials over a long period of time. It went on to say that although the 
recent inclement weather might have highlighted the problem, the roof had been 
deteriorating over some years and that wasnt something covered by the policy. 
When Mr B questioned this AXA said it would need a report from an independent tradesman 
if he wants it to consider the complaint further.
Mr B didnt accept AXAs position and complained. AXA had the opportunity to respond to 
the complaint, but hadnt done so within eight weeks, when Mr B asked us to look at his 
complaint. When he referred it to us, he explained that rainwater was now penetrating the 
roof and had damaged the bathroom and the walls and ceiling in a bedroom. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
was not persuaded that the evidence showed Mr Bs roof had been damaged by a storm and 
that was the only peril that could have applied in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurance policy such as Mr Bs provides cover for damage caused by a number of 
specific events or perils, such as lightning strikes or theft. If damage is caused to a property 
by something not included in the list of perils, the insurance policy wont provide cover for 
that damage. The policy doesnt cover damage that is caused by normal use or wear and 
tear  that would be considered to be maintenance, which a policyholder would be expected 
to carry out in the normal course of homeownership.
AXAs expert assessed the roof and concluded the damage to it was caused by wear and 
tear. The photographs that accompanied the report show slipped tiles, missing cement fillets 
at the edges of the roof, eroded pointing between the ridge tiles and a section of fallen 
render. Storm is the only peril available under Mr Bs policy that might cover damage to his 
roof. However, this is not the type of damage that would be expected to be caused by a 
storm. 
So I am satisfied that the damage present is most likely wear and tear caused as the roof 
has aged. As such, I dont consider AXA acted inappropriately when it declined Mr Bs claim. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
7 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman