DRN-2089130
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook). 
Hes also unhappy with the way in which it dealt with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr T held several accounts with Shawbrook. At the end of April 2020, he complained that he 
was unable to log on to online banking after trying on at least five to ten occasions on 27 and 
28 April 2020. He said he wasnt given advance notice that online banking would be 
unavailable. And he said this caused him inconvenience because he needed to check if a 
transfer hed requested had been paid. 
On 4 June 2020 Shawbrook said Mr T telephoned its complaints team in order to raise 
additional concerns. During this call, Mr T said he was unhappy about how Shawbrook had 
dealt with the maturity instructions hed given over the telephone on 27 May 2020 in relation 
to how to invest the balance of his fixed rate bond once it had matured on 22 June 2020. 
While Mr T said he received correspondence from Shawbrook subsequent to his verbal 
instructions, the letter failed to specify how much of his money would be invested, the 
interest rate it would attract and the duration of the new investment product. Mr T accepted 
that Shawbrook did correctly fulfil his maturity instructions. But he said it took several 
messages to get this done. 
During this call, Shawbrook said Mr T also raised concerns that it had failed to email him to 
confirm that his tax certificate was ready for him to access and view  even though it had 
been uploaded to his account on 17 April 2020 
Mr T said he was assured he would receive a complaint resolution call on 8 June 2020 to 
discuss his concerns. But he wasnt contacted until 10 June 2020. 
When Shawbrook provided its final response to Mr Ts complaint it said the problems hed 
experienced logging into his account from 27 to 29 April 2020 had been due to technical 
problems affecting its website, which prevented customers from accessing their accounts 
online. It said this was an unexpected event and had been caused by a surge in customers 
attempting to log on to online banking at the same time. Shawbrook stated it hadnt been 
able to provide prior notice to its customers that its website was under maintenance. But it 
recognised what happened had caused Mr T inconvenience and paid him £25 
compensation.
In relation to Mr Ts complaint about his maturity instructions, Shawbrook accepted the 
correspondence it had sent him had been vague. But it explained it had reinvested his funds 
as hed requested and opened his new account correctly.
Shawbrook also accepted it had omitted to send Mr T an email notification to inform him that 
his tax certificate was ready to view. But it said this was due to it experiencing technical 
issues at around that time. And it said the delay in responding to Mr Ts complaint over the 
telephone was due to workloads and other commitments of the complaint handler.
Shawbrook recognised there had been elements of poor service. So, it paid Mr T £65 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. It said £25 of that 
compensation payment reflected the problems hed experienced when attempting to log in. 
And it stated that the remaining £40 compensation was to acknowledge the other service 
issues Mr T had complained about. 
Being dissatisfied with how Shawbrook had offered to resolve his complaint Mr T referred it 
to our service. After our investigator looked into what had happened they didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. They agreed with Shawbrooks analysis of Mr Ts complaint and 
thought the compensation it had already paid was fair and reasonable. But Mr T disagreed 
and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr T experienced here. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen its clear that he was caused inconvenience by what happened. Shawbrook has 
already made a goodwill payment, which it says addresses all of the problems Mr T 
encountered. So, the issue here is whether its acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put 
things right. 
I can see that Mr T has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me 
to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
As there are four separate parts to Mr Ts complaint I think it will make things clearer if I deal 
with each issue separately.
Mr Ts difficulties in logging on to online banking
Shawbrook hasnt disputed that Mr T was affected by the technical issues affecting its 
website, which prevented its customers from logging on. Its said these problems lasted from 
27 until 29 April 2020, when they were resolved.
I can see that Mr T is unhappy he wasnt given advance notice that Shawbrooks website 
would be affected. But Shawbrook has stated that wasnt possible because it couldnt have 
foreseen that its website would have crashed. 
I understand that the problem affecting Shawbrooks online banking system was caused by 
high volumes of customers attempting to log in simultaneously. This is, of course, something 
that was beyond Shawbrooks control. It was also something it couldnt have reasonably 
anticipated. In these circumstances, I think it would be unfair to say Shawbrook could, and 
should, have notified its customers in advance of the problems it experienced with its 
website at the end of April 2020.
Mr T has also complained that Shawbrook didnt notify him its website was non-operational 
once that had happened. But I dont think its reasonable to expect it to do that. I say this 
because, at that time, Shawbrook needed to dedicate its resources to restoring access to its 
website so it could minimise the impact on its customers. And I think it was sensible for 
Shawbrook to prioritise that over sending notifications that its website was down.Im satisfied that Shawbrook acted proactively in seeking to address the problems with its 
website as quickly as it could. I say this because it was able to resolve the issues by 29 April 
2020. So, its customers were affected for two days. 
I acknowledge this outage caused Mr T inconvenience. But I think Shawbrook used its best 
efforts to limit the impact on its customers. And I havent seen any evidence that shows Mr T 
incurred a financial loss as a result of what happened.
As set out in the background to this complaint Shawbrook paid Mr T £25 compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused by being unable to log on to online 
banking for two days. It told our service that its practice was to compensate those affected in 
the sum of £15. The goodwill gesture paid by Shawbrook here was more than this.
I understand that Mr T doesnt feel £25 adequately reflects the trouble and upset he was 
caused. But we arent here to punish businesses. And, having taken everything into account, 
Im satisfied that the compensation already paid is a reasonable amount, which is in line with 
our approach in similar scenarios. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a 
higher award is warranted here. So, I wont be ordering Shawbrook to increase its offer
Mr Ts concerns about how Shawbrook had dealt with the maturity instructions hed given 
over the telephone on 27 May 2020
I have carefully considered Mr Ts concerns about this issue. And I can see Shawbrook 
acknowledged it could have provided clearer information to him about his reinvestment 
amount, interest rate and investment duration. This would have enabled Mr T to satisfy 
himself that his maturity instructions had been correctly understood.
Im pleased to see that Mr T didnt lose out as a result of Shawbrook not providing as 
detailed information as it could have. His funds were correctly invested in line with his 
instructions. And I can see his new account was set up to start on 23 June 2020, which was 
the earliest date he was eligible to transfer his funds to his new product. No delay was 
therefore caused as a result of what happened.
Its clear that Mr T is unhappy he needed to communicate with Shawbrook on a number of 
occasions about how he wanted to reinvest his funds. But I can see its taken his feelings 
about this on board in paying an inclusive compensation amount of £40, which it says 
includes the impact of this error, the issues he raised regarding his tax certificate and his 
concerns about how his complaint was handled. And I think the overall amount hes been 
paid fairly reflects the trouble and upset he would have been caused.
Shawbrooks failure to email Mr T about his tax certificate
Ive seen evidence that shows Shawbrook generated and uploaded Mr Ts tax certificate to 
his online account on 17 April 2020. This was when the document should have been made 
available to Mr T. So, theres been no error as regards when the tax certificate was 
generated or uploaded. 
Shawbrooks usual process when a tax certificate is issued is that it would email customers 
to notify them this document has been uploaded to their online account. But that didnt 
happen here and Shawbrook accepts Mr T wasnt notified his tax certificate was ready due 
to a technical error on its part.
The impact this had on Mr T was that he only saw his tax certificate in May 2020. I 
appreciate that was inconvenient. But I havent seen any evidence to satisfy me that Mr T incurred a financial loss as a result of what happened. And, like our investigator, I think Mr T 
could have logged into his account or contacted Shawbrook by telephone if he needed to 
urgently chase up his tax certificate  at which point hed have found out it had already been 
uploaded to his online account.
Shawbrook has already paid Mr T an inclusive compensation amount to recognise this, and 
other service errors he experienced. And I think the overall amount paid appropriately 
recognises this aspect of Mr Ts complaint.
Mr Ts concerns about how his complaint was handled
Ive carefully considered Mr Ts concerns Mr T about how Shawbrook responded to his 
complaint. However, strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how financial 
businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation 
that governs our service. So, even if I did think Shawbrook hadnt handled Mr Ts complaint 
well, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of his concerns or make an award. So, I wont 
address this any further here.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that the total compensation 
Shawbrook has paid Mr T is a fair and reasonable resolution to his complaint. I also think, in 
paying an amount that covers all service issues Mr T complained about, it demonstrates that 
Shawbrook tried to look at this complaint as fairly as it could, in an inclusive way. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr T. But I havent seen anything to make me think that Shawbrook should pay 
any more than it already has done in the circumstances.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ts dispute with Shawbrook 
informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr T any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman