DRN-2572091
The complaint
Miss P complains that the vehicle she acquired through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (CBMF) was 
not of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement. 
What happened
Miss P is represented in this complaint by Mr B. But for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to 
her.
Miss P tells us that she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call K, in November 2019. 
She states that within a few days the vehicle was experiencing problems with the braking 
system and a misaligned headlight. She says that K sent her the parts which it said were 
required to fix the issues. But that before anything had been done the vehicle had broken 
down. After that she states that it was diagnosed with a timing chain issue which would cost 
about £1,800 to repair.
After complaining to CBMF she says it had arranged for the vehicle to be inspected. She 
complains that the report by the engineer appointed by CBMF was based on an examination 
of the vehicle that wasnt sufficiently thorough. And that it had concluded the issues were 
due to wear and tear.
CBMF tell us that it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected by a 
business Ill refer to A. It said that A had concluded that the faults were due to wear and 
tear issues.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 January 2021. I said I was minded to 
uphold the complaint as I didnt think the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
And I thought that Miss P should be able to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Miss P has since replied and accepted my provisional decision. CBMF hasnt responded. As 
no new material information has been provided, Im not minded to change the view 
expressed in my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision which is 
set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ps conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBMF supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Miss P complains about the quality of the vehicle. And in terms, she says that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the report by A wasnt carried out 
properly and is unreliable.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). And the Consumer Protection against Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008 (CPUTR).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability.
The CRA also contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
The CPUTR requires that the supplier must give the consumer sufficient information about 
the goods which the average consumer would require in order to make an informed decision 
about whether to proceed to acquire the goods.
From the information with which Ive been provided, it appears that there was an ongoing 
exchange between K and Miss Ps representative within a few days of the vehicle being 
supplied. These messages seem to be about the issue of faulty brakes. Theres reference to 
four discs, pads and a handbrake wire. Given this was so close to the date of supply I think 
that anything to do with important safety features such as brake parts needing to be 
imminently replaced is something the average consumer would require to know before 
acquiring the vehicle. Theres no information to show that Miss P was advised about this.
Ive viewed the MOT history of this vehicle. On 8 August 2019 it failed an MOT specifically 
because of major faults with the hand brake; front and rear brake discs; and also for the 
headlight beam being misaligned. These appear to be amongst the same faults about which 
Miss P now complains. The vehicle failed another MOT on 18 October  due to defective 
tyres - before passing on 28 October 2019.
Im not sure why - when the complaint about the brakes was raised - K wasnt willing to 
complete the repairs as opposed to simply supplying the parts. It doesnt appear to have 
been complying with its CRA obligations in this respect.
Towards the end of January 2020, the vehicle broke down. And an initial inspection by Miss 
Ps local garage, which Ill call KM, indicated it might be the timing chain that was the 
cause. KM provided an estimate of repair costs as exceeding £1,800.
The vehicle was inspected by A on 4 March 2020. It is noteworthy that this is still within six 
months of the date of supply. As report indicated that the engine management light was 
illuminated. And that the engine was extremely noisy and running rough. It concluded that 
the timing chain had probably reached the end of its operational life. This conclusion was 
reached without the engine being stripped.Although in its final conclusion A indicated it thought the issue would not have been present 
at the point of supply, earlier in the report there is a passage which appears to be 
inconsistent with this conclusion. It reports (my underlining):
Timing Chain Wear - The fault is a common occurrence on chain driven engines over a wide 
range of mileages. As with all components materials and designs they have a finite life and 
often other factors may promote the development of deterioration leading to the final and 
ultimate failure, which is often material overloaded and breakage. The deterioration rate over 
time may change and may increase from the normal linear propagation, a tipping point is 
inevitably reached where the deterioration rate increases, this sometimes gives the 
appearance that the fault was sudden in development, even though the initiating 
deterioration would have been progressive.
Although the component would not have been in the current condition at sale the 
concentration of the deterioration leading to the stress riser and material over load will have 
been developing since the policy inception progressing to the final ultimate failure now 
evident. As such although there would be no way of identifying the failure was impending the 
condition would have been developing at policy inception and the components was in a 
compromised state at that time and clearly incapable of providing normal use.
The report also commented upon the brakes:
We also examined the MOT history of the vehicle which did not record any issues with the 
mechanicals, except for the braking system which was showing wear to the front brake discs 
and this was still apparent on the vehicle now .
The MOT of 8 August 2019 failed the vehicle and reported as major defects requiring 
immediate repair:
Parking brake efficiency below requirements;
Nearside headlamp aim projected beam image is obviously incorrect;
Brake disc significantly and obviously worn both front;
Brake disc significantly and obviously worn both rear.
Why the vehicle was able to pass the MOT test - yet within a few weeks required the very 
same components which had seemingly caused it to fail earlier - Im unable to say. But As 
report substantially confirms that not all the repairs identified by the MOT test had been 
carried out.
As report also indicated that a fault code P0101 was displayed. This relates to a mass air 
flow meter issue. This is a fault which itself can result in loss of engine power. A didnt 
identify this as the cause of the engine noise. But given the nature of the inspection which A 
recorded as being based only on visual evidence, and not a full mechanical examination, it 
cant be ruled out as a potential contributory factor in the breakdown.
Ive also seen the advert for the vehicle. This described the vehicle as being in perfect 
condition and offered a six month warranty. I accept that most reasonable persons would 
view the description of an eight year old vehicle with over 100,000 miles on the odometer as 
being perfect as advertising hype.
But Ive not seen any reason as to why the warranty wouldnt cover the cost of the required 
repairs. It doesnt appear as if CBMF followed up with K the terms of the warranty and why repairs werent offered under this. Nor why it didnt do so.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Looking at all the issues which this vehicle experienced within less than three months of 
being supplied to Miss P  and which Ive described above - Ive concluded to a high degree 
of probability that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
And I dont consider that As report is sufficient to displace the statutory presumption that the 
vehicle didnt conform to contract at the point of supply. It was based on a less than 
complete examination of the vehicle. But even that inspection revealed faults with the brakes 
that were probably the same as those identified in the 8 August 2019 MOT test failure report. 
It also identified a probable timing chain fault which it described as clearly being incapable 
of providing normal use at the time of supply; and an unresolved fault code which A 
recommended should be rectified.
Ordinarily, as the short term right to reject the vehicle (within 30 days of supply) wasnt 
exercised, the supplier / dealer would have the chance to repair the vehicle. CBMF had that 
opportunity but rejected Miss Ps complaint. Its also the case that repairs need to be carried 
out within a reasonable time and not result in significant inconvenience to the consumer. As 
a year or more will have passed since the vehicles breakdown and before the issue of a 
final decision, I think Miss P should be allowed to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Ive noted that Miss P has - some months after the original complaint - raised an issue about 
the vehicle possibly not having a diesel particulate filter fitted. Shes apparently obtained this 
information from a previous dealer who had the vehicle prior to K. But as this issue wasnt 
taken up with CBMF and hasnt been verified Im not able to take it into account.
I understand that Miss P still has the brake parts supplied by K. It will be necessary for these 
to be returned along with the vehicle if she accepts the terms of my final decision.
Putting things right
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance should now take the 
following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Miss P to pay from 31 January 2020; Pro 
rata calculations should be made if required;
2. Arrange for collection of vehicle and relevant spare parts at no cost to Miss P;
3. Refund to Miss P any payments made for any period after 31 January 2020; 
4. Pay £100 to Miss P for distress and inconvenience; 
5. Subject to payments due up to 31 January 2020 having been paid, to arrange for the 
agreement to be recorded on Miss Ps credit file as settled. And arrange for any 
adverse entries to be removed.
Simple interest should be added to item 3 above at the rate of 8% per year from date of 
payment to date of settlement.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint I require 
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to take the action Ive 
stipulated in the preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman