DRN-2189928
The complaint
Mr Ys unhappy with Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds actions when handling a claim 
on his breakdown repair cover.
Another company was involved in this complaint, but Acromas are ultimately responsible for 
the outcome so Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr Ys car lost power, and he had to call Acromas to attend to his car. The 
patrol officer said his car had an issue with an Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve and 
told Mr Y to only drive for a short time until he could get to a local garage. Two days later 
after experiencing the same issues he then left his car with his local garage who hed been 
using for a long time and asked them to look at the problem.
This garage called Mr Y, and told him the EGR valve needed replacing. He asked them to 
make a claim on his policy with Acromas, but the garage said theyd had a lot of problems 
with Acromas and asked him to make the claim himself. Mr Y says Acromas told him they 
wouldnt authorise the claim at this garage, and when Mr Y reminded them hed had an issue 
fixed only a month earlier at this same garage they covered they couldnt explain that. He 
says this then led to him trying to find a garage who Acromas would cover, which he 
eventually did. But, once that garage had completed the work, Acromas said they wouldnt 
cover the full cost because of high labour charges so only paid part of it. Mr Y says he was 
then told another garage, a main dealer hed wanted to go to, would have been fully covered 
but hed previously told he wouldnt be covered if he used a main dealer. So, he complained 
to Acromas about these issues.
Acromas said they understood Mr Ys not happy his claim hasnt been paid in full. They said 
they assessed his claim in line with the Manufacturer or Motor Industry Standard Repair 
Times and Retail Price Guides. They explained they covered the cost of the time the repair 
is expected to take  and couldnt find any call recording to demonstrate hed been told they 
wouldnt cover his repair at a main dealer.
Unhappy with this, Mr Y asked us to look into things  also complaining that Acromas hadnt 
given him a hire car he says he was entitled to. In response to our asking for information 
Acromas let us know Mr Y hadnt complained about the hire car issue to them. One of our 
investigators considered all of the information  and said if Mr Y wanted to raise the hire car 
issue hed need to speak to Acromas to raise a separate complaint. She felt Acromas had 
acted fairly when handling the claim  and there was a misunderstanding about whether 
Mr Y could go to a main dealer, but she didnt think Acromas had done anything wrong.
Mr Y didnt agree with this. He said he was given misleading information, and because of 
that hes out of pocket. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of factors I need to consider in this complaint:
Did Acromas give Mr Y the right information about paying for main dealer parts
Have they acted fairly by saying he cant take his car to his preferred garage
Were Acromas right in reducing the amount they paid for Mr Ys claim
Did Acromas give Mr Y the right information about paying for main dealer parts
Ive listened to the call Mr Y helpfully provided, and as hes told us the adviser does tell him 
they wont pay for main dealer parts, theyd only cover standard retail prices. But I can see in 
the letter Acromas issued in August 2019 theyve given different information by saying I can 
confirm that we would in fact pay main dealer prices for parts and labour provided that the 
vehicle is at a main dealer garage.
So, Ive checked the terms of Mr Ys policy, to see what this says. The specific wording is 
The Insurer reserves the right to fit replacement parts which have not been made by the 
Nominated Vehicles manufacturer but are of a similar standard.
I dont think thats as clear cut as the adviser made it sound in the phone call Ive listened to, 
and Mr Y argues he was told on the phone when he made his complaint that Acromas do 
cover main dealer parts. And he argues because of this information he didnt go to a main 
dealer.
I dont doubt what Mr Y has said, particularly because the letter tells him they would cover 
these costs but taking everything into account I dont think it would make a difference. I say 
that because ultimately Acromas have made it clear  both on the phone before the repair, 
and in the policy document, they may not cover the cost of the main dealer parts. During the 
course of our investigation weve asked them about this  and theyve been consistent in 
saying they wouldnt have paid for main dealer parts. So, I think the person Mr Y spoke to 
about this told him incorrectly they would. And, had Mr Y taken his car to the main dealer, I 
think its reasonable to conclude Acromas wouldnt have covered that cost.
Have they acted fairly by saying he cant take his car to his preferred garage
The policy terms say any repair needs to be authorised by the insurer before going ahead. I 
dont think this is an unreasonable stance to take and is common in most insurance policies 
of this type. And, as Acromas are the ones paying out on the claim, I dont think its 
unreasonable for them to say they dont work with a particular garage if they dont.
Because of this, I dont think Acromas acted unfairly when telling Mr Y he couldnt use the 
garage he wanted and have his claim covered.
Were Acromas right in reducing the amount they paid for his claim
Acromas have argued the cost of the EGR valve quoted by Mr Ys garage was too 
expensive at £215 as theyd found evidence it was available for less. And the cost of the 
labour at £65 was higher than quoted by the guide they used.
The policy says claims will be assessed against the Manufacturer or Motor Industry standard 
repair times and retail price guides. So, Ive looked at the evidence Acromas have provided.
Theyve shown the EGR valve was found on one retail website for £195.99, and several 
others for around £130 and £160. Acromas paid £195.99 to Mr Y for the part  so I dont 
think I can say this was unfair.And this guide says to fit this part it should take approximately 0.7 of an hour to complete  
but at £40 an hour, Mr Ys garage had quoted the cost as £65  over 1.5 hours. So, I think 
Acromas paying Mr Y £28 towards the cost of the labour was fair as well.
Overall taking everything into account Im satisfied Acromas have acted fairly and 
reasonably when handling Mr Ys complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision doesnt deal with the concerns Mr Y raised about 
not getting a hire car.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman