DRN-3329246
The complaint
Mrs G is a sole trader. She complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly declined her 
application for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and closed her business account.
What happened
Mrs G wanted to apply for a BBL with Barclays as the lender she banked with wasnt 
participating in the BBL Scheme. 
In August 2020, Mrs G successfully applied for a business current account with Barclays. 
Shortly after, she applied for a BBL. Barclays said it needed further information to confirm 
she met the Scheme eligibility criteria, which included that her business was trading on 1 
March 2020.
Mrs G provided documentation to support her application, but Barclays wasnt satisfied with 
this. The bank said it needed a copy of her 2018/19 tax return  as Mrs G said shed been 
trading in 2018. It also said the bank statements Mrs G had provided werent in her name. 
Mrs G confirmed the business had only started trading in January 2020 and provided a letter 
from her existing bank explaining why her initials didnt match on the bank statements.
Barclays still wasnt satisfied with the information and declined Mrs Gs BBL application. A 
couple of days later it blocked her business and personal accounts before closing them 
without notice shortly after. Mrs G didnt think this was fair and asked this service to look into 
what happened. Mrs Gs concerns regarding her personal account complaint have been 
addressed and resolved under a separate complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays concerns about the information that Mrs G had 
provided were reasonable and that it had therefore acted unfairly in declining her BBL 
application and closing her account. To put things right, she recommended that the bank 
reconsider Mrs Gs BBL application and pay her £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Barclays accepted our investigators view. Mrs G didnt think the £500 was enough 
compensation for the inconvenience and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Since the investigator issued her opinion, Barclays has reconsidered Mrs Gs BBL 
application. The loan was subsequently approved and drawdown in January 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no longer any dispute that Barclays made an error in declining Mrs Gs BBL 
application and closing her account. Although for completeness, I should say that I agree 
that the banks actions werent reasonable in light of the information available to it. So the 
issue for me to decide is how to fairly compensate Mrs G for the impact of the banks 
incorrect decision to decline her BBL application and close her business account.
However, since our investigator reviewed Mrs Gs complaint and made her 
recommendations, Barclays has confirmed that it has reconsidered Mrs Gs application and 
provided her with a BBL for the full amount she requested. With regard to the BBL, Mrs G 
has told us that although shes now received the loan, she believes she hasnt derived the 
same benefit from it that she would if she had received it when she should have done. 
Mrs G says she wasnt able to use the BBL as quickly as her competitors, so shes been 
disadvantaged. But I havent seen any evidence to support Mrs Gs statement or prove that 
other businesses were granted the BBL, and if so, what they chose to do with the funds. I 
understand that due to the banks actions, Mrs G didnt have the loan for almost a year so 
she couldnt use it in the way that she would have wanted  and its possible that her 
business lost out because of this. So I think Barclays should pay some compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs G. However, despite the investigators requests, I 
havent seen any evidence from Mrs G to substantiate how the busines was impacted  
which means Im not able to fully assess this part of her complaint. 
Mrs G also says shes not benefitted from the 12-month interest free period and has incurred 
more interest on the BBL than she should have. But Ive seen that her loan is on the 
standard BBL terms so she hasnt incurred any interest that she wouldnt always have 
needed to pay. Shes also told us that she was caused inconvenience as she had to visit her 
other bank multiple times as Barclays kept asking for more information for the BBL 
application. But Ive looked at the information the bank requested and the explanation it 
provided for these requests, and I think Barclays actions were reasonable.  
Mrs G told us she was caused distress and inconvenience because her business account 
was closed without notice. Mrs G says because of the banks actions, her direct debits 
bounced, her business transactions had to be made in cash and any automated payment 
details were removed. This also meant shed had to go to the branch during the Coronavirus 
pandemic  which put her husband at risk due to his health concerns. 
Its not in dispute here that the banks actions had an impact on Mrs G, and that it needs to 
put things right. However, Mrs G has confirmed that she was able to open a business 
account with another bank around a month after her account with Barclays was closed, so 
she no longer requires an account with Barclays.  
Mrs G has told us that shes still concerned about the banks reasons for closing her account 
and that if it had concerns about her identity it should keep her updated. The bank has 
agreed that it made a mistake by closing Mrs Gs account, but when it made the decision to 
close the account, it was following the account terms and conditions. The terms and 
conditions say that in certain circumstances the bank can close an account immediately  
but it wouldnt normally disclose the reason for doing so. If Barclays did have concerns about 
the information Mrs G had provided, it wouldnt have been able to tell her that was the case 
due to its regulatory obligations  as it wasnt aware at the time that an error had occurred.
I acknowledge Mrs G says her business was impacted because of the payments through her 
account. However, the bank has shown evidence that Mrs G had two Direct Debits set up on 
her business account and neither of the payments were returned at the time the account was 
blocked  although I recognise Mrs G would have had to cover these payments from another 
source for the month she was without an account, which would have been inconvenient. 
Mrs G also said she lost the details of business transactions when her account was closed. I 
understand this would have been frustrating and distressing for Mrs G, but I havent seen any evidence that she asked the bank to provide her with the details of these transactions. 
And whilst I agree, Barclays error caused inconvenience here for Mrs G, I think its likely that 
the bank would have been able to provide the information which wasnt available on her 
statements, had she asked for it at the time the account was closed or when she opened her 
account elsewhere so she could move the details to the new account.. 
Mrs G says she was caused distress and inconvenience as she had to go to the Barclays 
branch to collect the money held in her blocked account, and she had to ask for all her 
business transactions in cash. Although I dont disagree with Barclays reasons for asking 
Mrs G to go to the branch  due to its procedures - its clear that she wouldnt have needed 
to do this had the bank not made the error. This meant Mrs G was caused inconvenience 
from attending the branch and distress from what she believed was increased exposure to 
the Coronavirus.    
Its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, but I dont think Barclays 
treated Mrs Gs fairly in how it reviewed her original BBL application and then subsequently, 
closed her business account. The bank has apologised and provided BBL as requested, and 
its clear the closure of Mrs Gs business account caused her distress and inconvenience. 
However, when making an award for compensation, I have to look at the overall impact on 
Mrs G because of the account closure which includes considering what the account was 
used for, and how any impact both could be, and was, mitigated.  
I recognise that Mrs G feels strongly about this, and I understand why she may feel £500 
compensation is too low. But Ive considered the information that shes provided and based 
on what Ive seen, I feel that the £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair 
given the circumstances of the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mrs G 
£500 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman