DRN-2776199
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy Santander UK Plc has been unable to locate funds from an investment 
ISA she opened with a company that was later acquired by them. 
What happened
Mrs G had a number of products with a company which has since acquired by Santander, 
including an investment ISA. Shes explained shes been trying to locate the funds from this 
ISA as shes now retired and wants to settle her records. 
Santander were unable to provide Mrs G with much information, so Mrs G referred a 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Following his investigation, he received further 
information from Santander which he shared with Mrs G. This included the fact shed held 
two ISAs, one which had closed in 2004 and the other which matured in 2010. Mrs G was 
also told the amount paid out from both these ISAs, and the bank account numbers the 
monies had gone into.  
Mrs G asked for the transaction history for the account which the 2010 funds had gone into, 
as she could no longer trace it herself. Santander was unable to provide this, or any further 
information. The investigator thought this was reasonable, given the time that had passed. 
But Mrs G was unhappy with this, so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Gs desire to settle her records, including tracing her past investments and 
the funds from these. Ive looked through the information shes been able to find, along with 
the information Santander has been able to provide. 
Santander have confirmed that the account the 2010 ISA funds went into remains open, has 
a balance of zero, and that there have been no transactions since 2011. This suggests the 
funds were transferred out of the account shortly after being deposited there in March 2010.
I can understand why Mrs G might be disappointed that Santander cannot produce anything 
further in the circumstances, particularly a transaction history for 2010, or information about 
where the funds may have been transferred.
However, as the investigator has explained, Santander isnt required to keep records for 
longer than six years. This includes transaction history for an account. And without further 
information, I cant say what happened to the funds from the ISA. So I cannot make a finding 
that Santander have done something wrong in this case  either in relation to the funds or 
with not being able to provide Mrs G with further information. So Im unable to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman