DRN-3481050
The complaint
Mr H complains, for and on behalf of the estate of Mrs H, that Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) didnt provide necessary access to the current account held with them. He also 
complains that Halifax provided incorrect information and a poor overall service. 
What happened
The late Mrs H held a current account with Halifax. Following a hospitalisation at the end of 
2020, she was transferred to a care home. 
Mr H and his brother were looking to arrange access to account information, to help 
understand potential care costs. They say they contacted Halifax and were told to go into a 
local branch and same-day access could be arranged. 
Mr H says this was misinformation and he was then told in his local branch that he needed to 
fill a form in. He says both he and his brother completed the form and provided identification, 
but access was still not provided. Halifax say this was because they needed evidence 
regarding Mrs Hs mental capacity at the time to agree to the access, they say they told Mr H 
this initially but he disputes this. 
Mr H says he told Halifax that an initial bill was due to the care home at the end of December 
2020 and he still hadnt received account access. Halifax say they then wrote to him and 
explained they needed further evidence regarding Mrs Hs mental capacity and couldnt 
proceed without it. 
Mr H remained unhappy. He said that he had been misinformed and had spent a lot of time 
trying to sort it out. A further response was sent by Halifax. It apologised for previous 
confusion and for Mr H not always being able to get hold of someone over the phone. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. He remained unhappy with the response and 
access had still not been given as Halifax said they were yet to receive the necessary 
information. 
An Investigator looked into and noted that Mrs H had sadly passed away whilst the case was 
waiting to be assessed. She felt that Halifax had made mistakes but said that we couldnt 
award compensation to representatives of an estate for distress and inconvenience caused 
to them. Mr H, on behalf of the estate of Mrs H, remained unhappy and didnt think this was 
fair. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that I understand this was a difficult time for Mr H and the estate of   
Mrs H. They were initially dealing with Mrs H having to go into a care home and then her 
passing. I know this wont have been an easy time and all they were looking to do was to 
ensure they had all the information they needed to make the right decisions and get any 
support they were entitled to. 
Having looked at the timeline of events and the responses from Halifax, it is clear there were 
shortcomings and errors made. I would agree with Halifax that it was reasonable that they 
asked for some further evidence that Mrs H had capacity to agree to adding Mr H and his 
brother as third parties to her account. However, I am satisfied that there was                   
misinformation and the processes were not clearly enough explained to Mr H or his brother. 
This wouldve caused a lot of inconvenience and will have made an already distressing time 
even more difficult for them. 
However, as our investigator explained, it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a 
business to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience to an estate. Under our rules, 
we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs H was the consumer originally but when 
she died the right to complain passed to her estate. But I must explain that, although Mr H is 
representing the estate, hes not Halifaxs customer here. Mr Hs role is to bring the 
complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person might instruct a solicitor or 
other professional to represent them in a complaint.
In summary, I am aware this was a difficult time for Mr H and the estate of Mrs H. Not made 
any easier by the misinformation they received and lack of response at times from Halifax. 
However, there isnt any evidence of this causing financial loss to the estate and I am not 
able to award compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to a representative 
in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs H, to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman