DRN-1352611
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC unfairly charged him a cash transaction 
fee.
What happened
Mr S used his Tesco credit card to make a payment for a personal finance agreement in 
February 2019. He says Tesco charged him a cash transaction fee which was unfair and 
that he didn't receive any indication at the point of the transaction that such a fee would be 
charged. Mr S doesn't accept being told Tesco would apply a cash transaction fee for this 
type of transaction and questions if it is a cash transaction. He would like the fee of over 
£330 refunded and compensation for the stress and distress he was caused.
Tesco says in April 2018 it changed its definition of cash transactions to include this type of 
transaction. It says it including information about this change in Mr S's April 2018 statement 
and at the same time sent him a copy of the agreement change. It says it also sent Mr S a 
letter in May 2018 about the change and so hasn't made a mistake in these circumstances 
by applying a cash transaction fee.
Mr S unhappy with that response brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't 
uphold it. The investigator thought on balance that Tesco had sent Mr S the variation notice 
and so hadn't made a mistake by charging the cash transaction fee. The investigator asked 
Mr S to check if he had received the e-mail from Tesco and if he had a problem receiving his 
mail.
Mr S doesn't accept that view and says it oughtn't be for him to prove he received the e-mail 
or letter but for Tesco to show he had received them and understood the changes. He 
doesn't accept that Tesco has made him aware of the fee and he wouldn't have used the 
credit card if he was. Mr S says there is no evidence that he received or read the notice of 
variation .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr S will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place. I also accept that Mr S would not 
have used the credit card for this transaction if he had known about the fee. But I don't think 
that is the issue here, as I think the issue is if Tesco has on balance provided Mr S with 
notice of the change to the credit card agreement.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr S would have agreed to 
when the credit card account was opened. Having done so I'm satisfied that Tesco is entitled 
to make changes to the agreement by providing appropriate notice. There is no dispute here 
that in or around April 2018 Tesco made changes to the way it classed a cash transaction. I can see that it intended to class the repayment of borrowing such as this as a cash 
transaction which would be subject to a cash transaction fee. So I don't think Tesco made a 
mistake by charging the fee here, as Mr S used his credit card to re-pay a finance 
agreement.
The key question is if Tesco told Mr S about that change. I can see that on Mr S's April 2018 
account statement, in what I think was in a fairly prominent part of the statement, Tesco told 
Mr S there was a change to his terms and conditions and that the notice of variation was 
enclosed. Mr S hasn't told us that he didn't receive that statement and I would have 
expected him to have read it and if the notice of variation was not included, to have 
asked Tesco for a copy. I can see that Tesco says it was sent with the statement and it 
doesn't have a record of its return. So I think on balance Tesco sent Mr S the statement and 
notice and so gave him appropriate notice of the change it intended to make. I have said that 
I don't think Mr S was aware of the change but I can't fairly hold Tesco for that as I'm 
satisfied it took appropriate and reasonable steps to make him aware.
I can also see from Tesco's records that it also wrote to Mr S in May 2019 about the same 
changes. Tesco hasn't told me about any mail being returned to it and so I think on balance 
that it has done everything I would have expected to tell Mr S about the changes to his 
agreement by letter,e-mail and by the information in the account statement. 
Overall as I don't think Tesco has acted unfairly or made a mistake then I can't fairly order it 
to refund all or part of the transaction fee as Mr S would like. I appreciate that Mr S is 
unlikely to accept my decision and I think that brings an end to what we in trying to sort out 
this dispute informally can do. I also don't think Tesco can be responsible for the information 
Mr S saw when the  transaction was processed or lack of information about the fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman