DRN-3977240
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Pinnacle Insurance Plc trading as EVERYPAW (Pinnacle) 
handled a claim under her pet insurance policy after her dog suffered an injury.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive only provided a brief 
summary here.
Ms S tells us her dog suffered from an injury requiring treatment to its right cruciate 
ligament. And she submitted a claim in March 2022.
Pinnacle accepted the claim but said it could only pay £84.16 as there had been a 
previous claim for the same condition and the maximum benefit under the policy of 
£3,000 had been reached.   
Pinnacle set out that the dog had previously suffered cruciate ligament damage to its 
left leg and a claim had been made for this damage in 2021. It explained cruciate 
ligament ruptures are considered bilaterally occurring conditions and therefore 
accepted as one condition. 
Ms S wasnt happy with this and complained to Pinnacle.
In its final response dated 6 May 2022 Pinnacle reiterated its position.
Ms S remained unhappy and brought her claim to this service in November 2022.
Initially pinnacle said the complaint had been brought to us too late for us to consider. 
Our investigator advised it had been brought within 6 months of the final response, 
and Pinnacle provided its business file. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to link the 2 claims and upheld the complaint. 
He said Pinnacle should pay the claim and should pay £100 to compensate for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused to Ms S.
Pinnacle asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, whilst no longer in dispute, Im satisfied the complaint was brought in time for 
us to consider it. 
There is no dispute there had been a claim for cruciate ligament damage to the dogs left 
leg in 2021. The issue I have to decide is whether Pinnacle have acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it settled the claim for damage to the right cruciate in 2022.
The policy defines conditions as any illness or accidental injury whether or not it results in a 
diagnosis. There will be conditions that will fall in the following categories: 
1. Bilateral Condition(s) means any condition affecting right and left sides or paired 
organs or body parts of your pet such as (but not limited to) ears, eyes, cruciate 
ligaments, hips and patellae, where there is an underlying cause;
2. Recurring Condition(s) means any previous illness or any symptoms relating to that 
illness or a previous accidental injury or any symptoms relating to that accidental injury 
that may come back or that your pet is prone to, no matter how many times this comes 
back or how many areas of the body are affected; 
3. Related Condition(s) means if a number of illnesses, accidental injuries or symptoms 
are: (a) diagnosed as one illness or accidental injury; or (b) caused by, relate to, or result 
from another illness, accidental injury or symptom. When applying a maximum benefit or 
exclusion, w
It goes on to say:
When applying a maximum benefit or exclusion, we will consider bilateral conditions, 
recurring conditions or related conditions as one condition.
I find this definition clear, but Ive thought about whether its fair to rely on it in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Pinnacle referred the case to its vet whos provided a report which Ive considered carefully. 
The vet says there is without doubt an underlying cause for bilateral cruciate ligament 
rupture and the dog showed degenerative changes of the stifles on radiography.
Pinnacle refer to the cruciate as being shredded, suggesting an ongoing condition rather 
than traumatic. Ms Ss vet notes that in April 2021 the medial meniscus pretty much 
shredded, not the cruciate ligament. And says cruciate ruptures can be caused by trauma, 
not just degenerative conditions, and there is no way of knowing if the dog did or did not 
suffer an acute injury.
Ms Ss vet says when the injury occurred to the dogs left leg in 2021 both legs were x-rayed 
and the orthopaedic surgeon stated there were no radiographic signs of change within the 
right stifle at the time the dog presented with problems on the left side. And the right leg was 
described as pristine. 
When presented with conflicting experts reports I have to consider what I find most 
persuasive. Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities having considered 
the evidence provided by both parties. Taking into account all the evidence Im not 
persauded Pinnacle have acted reasonably in its handling of this complaint. Im more 
persuaded by the evidence from Ms Ss vet that there were no signs of cruciate ligament 
disease in the dogs right leg. And therefore, in the circumstances of this case, its not 
reasonable for Pinnacle to consider the claim as a bilateral condition.
Putting things right
Pinnacle should reconsider the claim and settle it in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, including any excess payable. It should pay interest on the claim 
settlement at 8% from 1 April 2022 to the date the claim is finally settled. And should pay Ms 
S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pinnacle Insurance Plc trading as EVERYPAW to settle 
the claim in line with the remaining term and conditions of the policy. 
It should add interest at 8% simple on the balance of the settlement for the period from 1 
April 2022 to the date the claim is settled.
It should pay Ms S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman