DRN-1091661
 
The complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr H has said the loans were 
unaffordable when taking account of his income and expenditure. He also said his financial 
history would have shown he wasnt credit worthy.  
What happened
This complaint is about nine short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr H between 
January 2014 and May 2015. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 23/01/2014 10/02/2014 1 £100.00
2 09/03/2014 30/03/2014 1 £100.00
3 10/05/2014 28/05/2014 1 £200.00
4 13/08/2014 31/08/2014 1 £300.00
5 31/08/2014 26/09/2014 1 £300.00
6 11/10/2014 31/10/2014 1 £300.00
7 31/10/2014 18/11/2014 1 £300.00
8 02/02/2015 28/04/2015 3 £400.00
9 01/05/2015 28/10/2015 3 £950.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought the loans from loan seven 
onwards shouldnt have been given because Mr Hs borrowing suggested he was becoming 
persistently reliant on the lending. 
MYJAR disagreed. It said its checks were proportionate to the lending and pointed out there 
was a gap of four months between Mr H taking loan seven and loan 8. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr H didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to six shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr H had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr H, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, and like the adjudicator, I think that this 
point was reached by loan seven. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out seven loans within nine months. So MYJAR 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr 
Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr Hs first loan was for £100 and loan seven was for £300.  At this point MYJAR 
ought to have known that Mr H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
 
MYJAR has commented that there was a break in borrowing of two and half months 
between loan seven and eight. But bearing in mind the number of loans taken and 
the length of time Mr H had been borrowing from MYJAR, Im not satisfied this 
constitutes a break in the lending and maintain the lending was one chain of 
borrowing.
 
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan nine was 
taken out 14 months after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger amount  nearly ten 
times larger than loan one. Mr H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr H lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans seven to nine and MYJAR should put things 
right.
 Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans seven to nine;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; 
the number of loans taken from loans seven onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about seven to nine should be 
removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman