DRN-2122527
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Vauxhall 
Finance plc (Vauxhall Finance) is not of satisfactory quality and that the car was mis-sold 
to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Vauxhall Finance, who are also the supplier of the 
car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. This was a brand-
new car so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to be faulty.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first 30 days the consumer 
should be allowed to reject the car. But here Im not persuaded Mr G has been able to 
demonstrate there is a fault with the car. I say that because:
the dealership and the independent inspector have suggested there are no faults with 
the automatic transmission or the stop/start function;
the independent inspector who is an expert in these matters suggested the car was 
of satisfactory quality. He couldnt find evidence of anything wrong with the 
transmission and he noted the clicking when the engine was idle was likely to be 
from the hydraulic lifters and wasnt of concern. He identified a few minor issues that 
he thought were very easy to put right;
Vauxhall Finance have put those issues right. They fitted caps to the tyres and 
inspected the brakes to ensure any knocking noise was resolved; although they 
didnt identify a problem. They also replaced a blown bulb in the headlight.  I think, in 
the circumstances, that was reasonable, and it would have been disproportionate to 
expect them to reject the car on the basis of the minor issues that were identified.
was the car mis-sold?
Mr G says he needed a car that was fuel efficient and that this car hasnt been as fuel 
efficient as the manufacturer specifies.
The fuel economy figures provided by the manufacturer are for comparative purposes only. 
Its possible using those figures to compare the fuel consumption Mr Gs car should achieve 
against other models of car when those cars are subjected to exactly the same conditions: 
the test conditions.
But in real life the car Mr G has will be unlikely to match the exact conditions used in the test. 
So, whilst I understand Mr G is concerned his car isnt getting the fuel economy hed like I 
dont think hes provided evidence that theres anything wrong with the car. I think the 
variation is most probably to do with variation in driving style and road conditions rather than 
a fault with the vehicle.
Mr G has provided information from his own fuel economy test in which he says he achieved 
a 57-mile lower range than the fuel range predictor in the car had suggested was possible. I 
dont think that suggests theres anything wrong with the car either. I think the range, the car 
predicts is possible, will depend on whether the driving conditions it expected are the ones 
that applied in the test. Here the range that was completed was about 18% less than range 
that was predicted and I think thats within an acceptable range of accuracy. 
So, Im not persuaded I have enough information to suggest this car was mis-sold to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman