DRN-3186109
The complaint
Mr S has complained that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Jacamo irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
Mr S opened a shopping account with J D Williams in May 2013. His account limit was 
initially low - £175. Over the course of the next three years Mr Ss account limit was 
increased eight times until, 26 April 2016, it was £2,500. In October 2017 it was reduced to 
£2,360.
Mr S says that he couldnt keep up with the payments and that he got further into debt trying 
to meet them. Mr S says that J D Williams shouldnt have lent to him and didnt do checks to 
make sure the lending was affordable for him. He explains that he was very unwell and 
suffered from several significant health conditions when he took out the credit which have 
endured since then.
J D Williams says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr S  and when it 
increased his credit limit. However, it accepts that once it had been informed of Mr Ss health 
difficulties it should have frozen his account and not sold it on to a debt collection agency. 
To make up for this, J D Williams had already said before Mr S brought his complaint to this 
service that it would write off the outstanding balance and would ensure Mr Ss credit file 
was updated to reflect this. 
Mr S also complained about some administrative issues. He said J D Williams took too long 
to write off his outstanding balance and that there was confusion about which party should 
complete the write-off.
Our adjudicator completed an assessment of the complaint and concluded that some of the 
increases in credit to Mr S should not have happened. However, the adjudicator did not think 
any further redress was due to Mr S as a result of this.
Mr S disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken that into account when 
considered Mr Ss complaint.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr Ss income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments 
to a given loan amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mr S had been indebted, reflecting 
the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator considered that in relation to the opening of the account and the first to sixth 
increases, J D Williams checks were appropriate or, in cases where the checks hadnt been 
done as they ought to have been,  if they had been done it wouldnt have resulted in a 
different outcome. The adjudicator considered that the seventh and eighth credit limit 
increases were not suitable. 
Our adjudicator explained that she did not think that any compensation was due, though. 
This was because over the term of the agreement Mr S had paid back to J D Williams less 
than the cost of the goods he had received. So, essentially, Mr S had not paid any interest or 
charges on the goods and had not paid back the cost of the goods in total before J D 
Williams agreed to write off the outstanding amount.
 
I have considered whether it would be fair to write off the cost of the goods too. Mr Ss 
representative says that he didnt receive any benefit from many of the goods as he sold 
them to third parties for significantly less than what he paid for them. Mr Ss representative 
explains this happened as a direct result of Mr Ss health condition. Mr Ss representative 
has provided some evidence in the form of PayPal statements to support this. But I cant 
establish from these what was sold, what conditions they were in and whether they were 
items that had been bought on credit from J D Williams. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to make J D Williams pay back the cost of Mr Ss purchases, 
even if the original lending decisions were not suitable.
 
I have not completed a full assessment of each lending decision, because I agree that it 
would not make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I consider J D Williams offer 
to write off the whole outstanding debt and to remove adverse information from Mr Ss credit 
file to be fair. Following our adjudicators assessment, it has agreed to remove adverse 
information from July 2015 onwards, which I agree is a fair way to put things right. 
Mr S has also complained about some administration problems. He says that it took too long 
for J D Williams to write off his outstanding balance and that there was confusion about 
which party was to complete the write-off. 
J D Williams did make an error in its final response to Mr S when it said the debt collection 
agency would be responsible for writing off the balance and this caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr S. But Mr S didnt experience any financial detriment as a result of the 
delay, so I dont think J D Williams needs to compensate Mr S for this. 
Putting things right
J D Williams has now agreed to remove adverse information from Mr Ss credit file from July 
2015 onwards.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I think J D Williams offer to write off Mr Ss outstanding 
debt and to adjust his credit record accordingly is a fair resolution to Mr Ss complaint. J D 
Williams does not have to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman