DRN-4180365
The complaint
Mr H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim after his laptop computer 
was stolen.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
At the relevant times, Mr H had a gadget insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes.
He says his laptop  and a relatively old mobile phone  were stolen from him in the street 
during a visit to London. He made a claim for the laptop on 16 September 2022  the same 
day he says the theft occurred.
After investigating the claim - and interviewing Mr H  Great Lakes agents declined it. They 
told Mr H they thought the claim was fraudulent due to what they described as 
inconsistencies in the information and evidence hed provided.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Great Lakes. And when they 
maintained their position and said the decision to decline the claim was correct, he brought 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I decided to issue a provisional decision in 
this case. That allowed both Mr H and Great Lakes a chance to provide more information or 
evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision on Mr Hs 
complaint.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Great Lakes declined the claim, their agents wrote to Mr H, on 8 November 
2022, to explain their decision.
That letter said the claim had been brought into disrepute by inconsistences in the 
information Mr H had provided when he made the claim, when he responded to 
specific questions put to him just after he made the claim, and when he was 
interviewed around six weeks after the claim was made.
Later, in response to his complaint, they made it clear they were declining the claim 
because they thought it was fraudulent. And they explained in more detail what they 
thought the inconsistences or anomalies in Mr Hs evidence were.
Mr H reported the theft to the Police  and registered his laptop as stolen. He then 
made his claim.
In short, Mr H says his friend had given him a lift to London, from the town where 
they both live, so that he could attend a pre-arranged meeting in a caf.
He says his friend was going to London to meet someone at the airport. And he 
dropped Mr H several minutes walk from the caf.
Mr H says on his way to the caf, he was stopped by two thieves, who stole his 
laptop and mobile phone. He then didnt attend the planned meeting but walked to 
another friends house a short distance away. From there, he contacted the friend 
whod given him the lift into London, who later picked him up and took him home.
Mr H says he part-completed the claim on-line in the car on the way home, using his 
friends device, and then finished it on his own computer once hed got home.
Great Lakes agents (in the letter responding to Mr Hs complaint) said there were 
essentially five issues with the information Mr H provided. These were as follows.
One  Mr H couldnt recall the exact location at which his friend had dropped him off 
in London just before the alleged theft took place. Great Lakes said it was reasonable 
to assume Mr H and/or his friend would have recalled that exact location.
Two  Mr H said that having lost his phone, hed called a relative to get his friends 
phone number to call him and ask him for a lift back to their hometown. Great Lakes 
said Mr H hadnt told them that in the first instance. And they said they didnt believe 
it was reasonable to suggest that he would have called the relative to get his friends 
phone number.
Three  Mr H said his friend had been on the way to the airport to pick someone up. 
And hadnt been able to explain why his friend was in the area two hours or more 
later to offer him a lift.
Four  Mr H hadnt been able to explain why the person his friend had picked up the 
airport wasnt still in the car at that point.
Five  Mr H said hed submitted the claim partly from the car and partly when hed 
got home. It was submitted at 8:37pm and the IP address from which it had been 
submitted was a static address in North Norfolk (not close to London or indeed 
Mr Hs hometown).
When our investigator asked Great Lakes about the IP addresses  which also 
apparently linked Mr Hs claim to an IP address in Turkey  they accepted that the 
data theyd used wasnt a reliable guide to where Mr H had been at the time. And 
they agreed that particular evidence was entirely irrelevant in determining whether 
the claim was or was not fraudulent.
When I look at the rest of the evidence Great Lakes referenced in justifying their 
claim decision (points one to four above), I dont think thats sufficient to sustain the allegation that Mr Hs claim was fraudulent. Thats a very serious allegation and 
needs reliable and persuasive evidence to back it up.
I dont think its entirely unreasonable to suggest that  by the time he was 
interviewed, six weeks or so after the incident  its unsurprising Mr H was unable to 
pinpoint the exact location at which hed been dropped off. I particularly bear in mind 
here that Mr H has provided medical evidence to show that he suffers from mental 
health issues which can affect his memory.
Im also satisfied that Mr Hs narrative that he rang a family member to obtain his 
friends phone number is entirely plausible. His phone had been stolen, so he had no 
way to readily access his friends number. I think if any reasonable person were put 
in that situation, they might think to ring a mutual connection whose number they 
could remember and ask them to pass on contact details for a friend. For me, that 
doesnt suggest Mr H is perpetrating a fraud. It suggests hes reasonably resourceful.
The fact that Mr H didnt immediately tell Great Lakes agents how hed obtained his 
friends phone number, only providing his explanation later, is for me more an 
indication of what he was asked and what he thought was significant in terms of the 
claim, rather than an indication that Mr H was perpetrating a fraud.
Mr H wasnt entirely clear about his friends business in London and exactly what he 
was doing that afternoon and evening. He initially said his friend was picking 
someone up from the airport, but he later said he might have mis-remembered that. 
And he said he couldnt immediately say why his friend remained fairly close to the 
area in which the alleged theft took place  or where the person his friend had picked 
up had gone by the time the friend picked up Mr H.
Again though, its not entirely surprising  particularly given his mental health 
problems  that Mr H couldnt recall exactly what his friend had been up to in London. 
To be frank, he was taking a lift from his friend and may have been more interested 
in what he himself was doing rather than exactly why his friend was driving to 
London.
It's also clear from the recording of the telephone interview with Great Lakes agent 
that Mr H wasnt entirely sure what his friend had been doing. He mentioned the 
airport, but it was the agent who said that would likely be Gatwick or Heathrow  
Mr H didnt definitively say that it was one of those airports.
Mr H later said his friend had been going to City airport, which explains why he was 
reasonably close when Mr H rang him to request a lift back to their hometown.
Great Lakes say this version of events may have been concocted only afterwards 
when it became apparent the timeline wouldnt really fit with a trip to Heathrow or 
Gatwick.
But as I say, during the interview it was the agent, not Mr H, who originally suggested 
it must have been Gatwick or Heathrow. And listening to Mr Hs vague and non-
committal response, no-one would conclude that hed definitively confirmed that it 
was one of those two airports. 
The point about the person Mr Hs friend picked up from the airport appears to me to 
be something of a red herring. Again, Mr H was reasonably vague about his friends 
purpose in going to the airport  I assume he didnt think it was important or had any 
bearing on his claim (not unreasonably perhaps). And if the friend had in fact been picking someone up, he may have dropped them in London before he re-connected 
with Mr H  there was never any suggestion that the person being picked up lived 
near Mr H and his friend.
All in all, then, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to justify Great Lakes agents 
accusing Mr H of fraud and refusing his claim. To refuse a claim on that basis, Id 
think Great Lakes would have wanted much more  and/or more compelling - 
evidence that the claim was fraudulent.
Mr H has proved he owned the laptop. He reported the crime to the Police. He 
reported the laptop as being stolen in order to prevent (as far as possible) its onward 
sale and/or use. And there are no other factors Im aware of which would cause 
Great Lakes to suspect that Mr H was dishonest.
That being the case - and given that Great Lakes have given no other reason to 
decline the claim - Im minded as things stand to require Great Lakes to settle the 
claim for the full amount (£1,980.49).
Im also minded to ask them to pay interest at 8% simple on that amount from the 
date they declined the claim (8 November 2022) to the date they make the payment 
to Mr H.
Mr H has also suffered considerable trouble and upset as a result of being accused 
of fraud  which must have been unpleasant and stressful - and not having the 
money to replace the stolen laptop. Hes also had the inconvenience of having to 
explain himself to Great Lakes at greater length and more often than was strictly 
necessary.
Taking all of that into account, Im also minded to require Great Lakes to pay Mr H 
£200 in compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced as result of their 
error in declining the claim on the basis that it was fraudulent.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to confirm he had nothing further to add.
Great Lakes responded to say theyd considered my provisional decision and had taken 
steps to settle the claim in the way Id suggested and pay the required compensation for 
Mr Hs trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr H nor Great Lakes provided any more information or evidence relating to the 
case.
I have nonetheless looked again at the documents and evidence we have on file and 
reviewed my provisional decision. But I have no reason to change my mind about the 
proposed outcome to this case.
Putting things right
As I indicated in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im going to require Great Lakes to 
settle the claim in full, add interest to that payment and pay Mr H £200 in compensation for 
his trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must:
settle Mr Hs claim for the laptop in full;
add 8% simple interest to that amount (calculated from the date they declined the 
claim to the date they make the payment to Mr H); and 
pay Mr H £200 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman