DRN-2915331
The complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by her husband, Mr B, complains that Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc didnt obtain the best price for a car she had voluntarily surrendered. She believes some 
damage was incurred after the car was surrendered which led to a lower price being 
obtained.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The car was sold at auction for £2,150, but Mrs B believed the value to be closer to £4,000. 
The car was collected and sold by an agent acting for Santander. It carried out an inspection 
at its depot before sale and identified a number of areas of damage. These were all 
photographed and recorded. The damage was both to the interior and the exterior.
I have reviewed that report and the photographs and I have no reason to doubt the accuracy 
of the inspection. I can see no damages which look to be recent. The photographs are close 
up ones with rulers etc where appropriate and are sufficiently detailed to show the scratches 
and marks etc. 
I have also reviewed the photographs taken by Mr B just before the car was collected, but 
these are not close up and despite enlarging them it is impossible to tell from them if the car 
had any damage. I dont consider there is sufficient evidence to allow me to conclude that 
any of the damage was caused after the car was collected.
However, as the car was sold at auction the sale proceeds will have depended on any 
number of variables, such as the number of bidders, the choice of cars available at the 
auction etc. There is no guarantee what price can be obtained and the same car may well 
have achieved a different price if sold at a different location or on a different day. In short, 
there is a degree of chance when selling anything at an auction.
I have every sympathy with Mrs B and her husband, but I cannot say that Santander has 
done anything wrong. Mrs B chose to surrender the car and Santander sold it as it was 
entitled to do. It cannot be held responsible for the price achieved. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman