DRN-2099906
The complaint
Ms G says Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Chelsea Building Society) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy that Ms G took out in connection with 
her mortgage. Yorkshire Building Society hasnt been able to confirm when the policy was 
sold, although Ms G suggests she bought it at the same time as her mortgage, in 1988. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think Yorkshire Building Society recommended the 
policy to Ms G, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did Yorkshire Building Society give Ms G information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading in order to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice 
about the insurance she was buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Ms G is worse off as a 
result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
As Ive already said, its not clear when Ms G took out the policy. Yorkshire Building 
Societys earliest record of premiums being paid is 1998, but Ms G says she bought the 
policy when her mortgage was arranged in 1988. Ive considered Ms Gs circumstances in 
both 1988 and 1998. Having done so, for the reasons Ive explained below Im not 
persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. 
Ms G says Yorkshire Building Society told her she had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage 
she wanted, and that she wasnt given a proper choice about buying the policy.
Yorkshire Building Society hasnt been able to provide much evidence from the point of sale 
(whether that was 1988 or 1998), as these events took place many years ago. Thats not 
surprising given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Ms G and Yorkshire 
Building Society when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Without anything else to support what Ms G has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Yorkshire Building Society didnt her aware the policy was optional. 
There is nothing to suggest that Ms G didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the policy 
when it was taken out. And her circumstances dont suggest she wouldve been caught by 
any conditions limiting the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed 
people or people with pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont think she needed better 
information about the things the policy might not have covered. 
Ms G has said she wouldve received sick pay from her employer if she was off work
because of accident or sickness. Shes also said that in 1988 she had a personal insurance 
policy, although she hasnt been able to provide details of what the policy covered. Thats 
understandable, but I dont think I can safely say that the insurance Ms G says she had 
wouldve provided the same benefits as the PPI.
Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Ms G to take the PPI, so it didnt have to take 
account of any employer sick pay she was entitled to, or insurance benefits.
But even if the society had advised Ms G, the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her 
employer benefits, and wouldve allowed Ms G to use her occupational sick pay (and any 
other benefits) to pay for other expenses. So I think Ms G wouldve had some use for the 
policy, despite her existing arrangements.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Ms G before
she agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. 
So I dont think better cost information wouldve affected Ms Gs decision to go ahead with 
the cover.
In summary, I think Ms G agreed to take out the cover (knowing she didnt have to). And 
given the policy provided broadly what I think she expected when she agreed to it, I dont 
think she would have made a different decision (and decided against taking the policy out) if 
she had been better informed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman