DRN-1155336
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
February 2004. Mr D says Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold him the 
PPI.
Background
Mr D bought the policy at the same time he applied for his credit card. The sale took place 
online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Halifax says  Mr D would have been given a choice about the PPI and it would have gained 
his consent before adding it to his credit card. In support of this, its provided us with a copy 
of Mr Ds credit card agreement, which he signed following the online application process. 
Due to the time that has passed, Halifax hasnt been able to provide us with screenshots of 
its online sales process, so I dont know what Mr D would have seen when he applied for his 
credit card. But Mr Ds credit card agreement seems to suggest that he would have been 
given a choice about the PPI. I say this because the credit card agreement states that Mr D 
had requested the PPI. It also shows that Mr D had declined card protection cover. So, 
taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Mr D would have been given a 
choice about the PPI and Im satisfied that he agreed to it.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr D chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions  so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr D has told us he would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work. He says this shows he didnt need 
the PPI because his work benefits were very good. Having thought about what Mr D has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I 
say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr D would have 
received from his employer and would have paid a benefit for up to 12 months. The PPI also 
would have paid a benefit if Mr D was made redundant.
Mr D has told us that at the time of sale, he had a policy in place which would have paid a 
benefit if he was unable to work. So, Ive thought about whether this policy would have made 
a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I dont think it does. Halifax didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr D, so it was up to him to decide if he wanted any additional cover, bearing in 
mind what he knew he already had in place.
So overall, I think Mr D could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman