DRN-3404139
The complaint
Miss W complains that Vitality Life Limited (VitalityLife) treated her unfairly when it refused 
to reinstate her whole of life policy after it lapsed for non-payment of premiums. 
What happened
Miss W took out a VitalityLife Essentials Plan (the policy) in January 2019. The policy 
provided £150,000 life cover, plus £30,000 LifestyleCare cover, for an initial premium of 
£54.88. The premium increased to £55.58 in February 2019 due to an increase in 
VitalityLifes monthly fee.  Miss W also chose to have the policy index-linked. This meant that 
the life cover, and the premiums, increased on each policy anniversary. 
The policy lapsed in May 2019 as Miss W had missed two premium payments. Miss W later 
sought to have the policy reinstated and was required to complete a reinstatement 
application confirming shed had no changes to her health. VitalityLife agreed to reinstate 
cover in October 2019, subject to her repaying the outstanding premiums from March 2019. 
A repayment plan was agreed with Miss W. It set out that shed repay her outstanding 
premiums by making double payments in December 2019, January, February and 
March 2020, followed by triple payments in April and May 2020.     
In November 2019 VitalityLife wrote to Miss W to tell her the monthly premium would be 
increasing to £60.41 from January 2020.
VitalityLife successfully took payment from Miss W between December 2019 and April 2020, 
which covered the premiums that fell due between March and December 2019. 
In May 2020 Miss W cancelled the direct debit and made a complaint to VitalityLife, as she 
didnt recognise the amount that had been requested, £120.82. The policy lapsed again in 
May 2020 due to non-payment of premiums. 
VitalityLife attempted to contact Miss W within a few days of her notifying it of her complaint. 
But Miss W wasnt available to take the call and no follow up attempts were made to contact 
her. Miss W then chased a response in June 2020 at which point she was sent a health 
questionnaire. Miss W asked VitalityLife to post her a copy of the questionnaire in 
September 2020, which it did. She then made further contact with VitalityLife in 
December 2020 to chase a response to her complaint and to arrange a telephone 
appointment to complete the health questionnaire. The health questionnaire was eventually 
completed in January 2021, nine months after the policy lapsed.   
VitalityLife considered Miss Ws complaint and accepted that it hadnt responded as quickly 
as it could have to her complaint and requests to reinstate her cover. It agreed to consider 
reinstating her policy subject to her completing a further reinstatement application and it 
offered to waive three months premiums.
Miss W completed the reinstatement application in January 2021. VitalityLife refused to 
reinstate her cover as it said her body mass index (BMI) was now outside the limits it was 
prepared to offer cover for. But it offered her £100 compensation for the administrative errors 
in dealing with her complaint. 
Miss W complained to the Financial Ombudsman. She said VitalityLife had scheduled a 
direct debit without her consent. It had then ignored her complaint and failed to post her a 
copy of the health questionnaire as shed requested. She said its actions had caused her 
unnecessary arrears, and she expected her cover to be reinstated and the outstanding 
premiums to be waived. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that VitalityLife had 
demonstrated the policy had lapsed because Miss W had failed to pay her plan premiums. 
He was satisfied VitalityLife had administered the policy in line with the policy terms, so he 
didnt ask it to do anything more. 
Miss W disagreed and asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. She said the Investigator got the case wrong, but she didnt elaborate on her 
reasons for thinking this, despite being chased for her comments on several occasions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this will come as a disappointment 
to Miss W. But I must consider if VitalityLife has treated her unfairly and I dont think it has. 
Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Its clear from the evidence that the policy lapsed because Miss W cancelled her direct debit 
and failed to pay her premiums by some other means. The policy terms and conditions 
explain what will happen if a policyholder fails to pay the plan premiums:
If you do not pay your premium by the due date, we will suspend all cover in your plan. 
However, you can ask us to reinstate your plan within thirteen months of the date of the first 
unpaid plan premium as long as: 
You pay all of the outstanding plan premium. If your premium would have increased 
in the time that you have not been paying it, you will need to pay the increased 
amounts. 
You provide us with a new direct debit instruction so we can collect future plan 
premium.
You and any other person covered by the plan completes a reinstatement application 
form. This is so that we can underwrite your request. We may offer you revised 
terms, or decline your request.
This was also repeated in the welcome letter, which explained your plan premiums will be payable monthly until the plan ends. Your plan may end following either non-payment of your 
plan premiums or a claim being made. 
I understand Miss W was concerned that VitalityLife had requested an incorrect sum from 
her when she reviewed her direct debit for May 2020. But it seems this was a 
misunderstanding. VitalityLife has demonstrated it informed Miss W, in a letter dated 
8 November 2019, that the policy premium would be increasing from January 2020. It later 
sent a revised payment schedule showing the amounts that would be taken from her each 
month.
I understand Miss W has disputed receiving various letters and emails from VitalityLife. But I 
cant say VitalityLife was responsible for this. It has demonstrated it wrote to Miss W at the 
address it was provided with when the policy was set up. While I can see Miss W later 
changed address, this was after the policy had lapsed. 
Due to the repayment plan Miss W had agreed with VitalityLife, the higher premium became 
payable from May 2020. As such, Im satisfied VitalityLife had not sought to collect an 
incorrect sum from Miss W in May 2020. 
Its clear that there were some issues and avoidable delays after Miss W registered her 
complaint in May 2020, but I cant say VitalityLife was solely responsible for these delays. 
I can see that VitalityLife didnt respond to Miss Ws initial complaint as quickly as it could 
have. But I dont think it follows that it was therefore responsible for the policy lapsing. I 
consider VitalityLifes offer of £100 compensation for its administrative errors was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and I wouldnt expect it to pay more than this. 
Miss W was ultimately responsible for ensuring her monthly policy premium was paid on 
time. From the evidence Ive been presented with, its clear that Miss W cancelled her direct 
debit, which prevented VitalityLife from being able to collect her premium as previously 
agreed. I cant see that, having cancelled her direct debit, Miss W made any alternative 
arrangements to pay the premiums that fell due. Once Miss W missed her premium 
payments, the policy lapsed. Cover could be reinstated, but only if the outstanding premiums 
were paid and so long as Miss Ws health questionnaire was satisfactory to VitalityLife. This 
was in accordance with the policy terms, and Im satisfied this was fair and in line with what 
Id have expected it to do. 
Unfortunately, by the time Miss W completed the health questionnaire in January 2021, 
VitalityLife was no longer prepared to reinstate cover as her BMI was now over the level it 
was prepared to offer cover for. VitalityLife has provided its underwriting guidance which 
confirms its decision was in line with its underwriting philosophy at the time, so I cant say it 
treated Miss W unfairly by refusing to reinstate the policy on the grounds of her BMI.
I understand that Miss W later suggested that she may have mis-stated her weight as it had 
been a while since shed last been weighed. VitalityLife acknowledged this and agreed to 
reconsider its decision if Miss W was able to provide a letter from her GP confirming her 
height and weight. I think this was fair in the circumstances.  
In summary, while I appreciate VitalityLife could have responded sooner than it did to 
Miss Ws complaint, it was ultimately entitled to suspend cover when premiums stopped 
being paid. It was also entitled to refuse to reinstate cover when it discovered Miss Ws BMI 
was no longer within its insurable limits. My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman