DRN-3068253
The complaint
 Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc closed her accounts and wont release money held 
in the accounts to her. She also complains about poor service.
What happened
 Mrs W opened two accounts with Santander in August 2018. 
Mrs W says she opened the accounts after moving to the UK to study. English isnt her first 
language and she set up the accounts so that she could pay for her education, to buy a 
property and her childs school fees whilst in the UK. 
On 28 and 29 August 2018, two international credits of just over £350 and just under 
£50,000 were paid into Mrs Ws account. Santander took the view that it needed to look into 
the payments and how Mrs W was operating her accounts. Whilst it completed a review 
Santander blocked Mrs Ws access to her accounts. 
On 29 August 2018, Santander tried to contact Mrs W to ask her to provide information 
about the source of the funds and to show that she was entitled to the money. But the phone 
number they had for Mrs W was answered by someone else who told the bank Mrs W was 
on holiday. And that that Mrs W didnt speak English very well. 
Santander contacted the sending bank regarding the payments. On 19 September 2018, the 
sending bank notified Santander that the payments had been credited to Mrs Ws account in 
error  in other words she wasnt entitled to the money. And it asked Santander to return the 
funds. Santander asked for an indemnity but never received one despite chasing the bank 
on more than on occasion and providing the sending bank with guidance about what it 
needed to provide to facilitate the return of the money. 
On 6 November 2018, Santander decided to close Mrs Ws bank accounts and wrote to her 
giving her 30 days notice. On 6 December 2018, the bank closed Mrs Ws accounts and 
moved the balances into a sundry account. 
Some months later, on 27 June 2019, Mrs W went into a bank branch but due to her limited 
English, she says it was difficult for her to understand what the bank wanted her to provide 
to them about the payments. She explained that shed been out of the country and had also 
been hesitant to go into the bank due to the language barrier. But she says the bank didnt 
make any effort to help her understand what was needed. She gave the bank copies of bank 
receipts for each of the bank transfers that had been made into her account and a copy of 
her passport. Santander said it would review the paperwork she gave them and asked her to 
pop back into branch in a few days. 
On 2 July 2019, Mrs W went back into the branch. She was able to withdraw her available 
balance of just over £5,000. Santander didnt release the remaining funds that had been paid 
into the account from Hong Kong in August 2018, as it wasnt satisfied Mrs W had 
demonstrated she was entitled to the money. 
On 15 August 2019, Mrs W made a complaint and asked the bank to reconsider its decision 
to close her accounts. Mrs W also told the bank that the August payments were from her 
husbands business partner in Hong Kong. And that the money was intended to fund her 
study and support her whilst she was in the UK. She also submitted a subject access 
request to the bank and complained about how long things were taking. 
Santander didnt respond to Mrs Ws letter until 21 September 2019. The bank apologised to 
Mrs W for how long things were taking and that it hadnt responded to Mrs Ws letter sooner. 
It offered Mrs W a total of £150 for its poor service. 
Santander said it had it acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing 
Mrs Ws accounts and that it wasnt willing to re-open Mrs Ws accounts. The bank pointed 
out that Mrs Ws explanation about her entitlement to the money from Hong Kong was at 
odds with the information it had received from the sending bank. And suggested that she or 
her husband contact the bank in Hong Kong to try and resolve things. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs W brought her complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator said Santanders offer of £150 for its poor service 
was fair. And it hadnt done anything wrong when it had blocked Mrs Ws accounts and 
asked her for information about the payments. She didnt think the bank had acted fairly 
when it had closed Mrs Ws basic bank account so she said Santander should pay Mrs W 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused as she didnt have any other bank 
account in the UK. She also thought the bank couldve done more to help Mrs W understand 
what she needed to, as English wasnt her first language. So, she said the bank should pay 
her £100 for the upset and inconvenience this had caused.
Mrs W accepted the investigators view. Santander disagreed. It said it had closed Mrs Ws 
accounts in line with the relevant regulations and account terms and conditions. Santander 
also said whilst it accepted Mrs W spoke little English, it thought Mrs W had understood 
enough so as to be able to withdraw her balance in June 2019 and provide some paperwork 
about her entitlement to the money. It also pointed out that shed made the necessary 
adjustments herself by appointing someone to represent her when shed complained. 
provisional decision
As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me to review. On 1 September 
2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive read and considered all of Mrs Ws submissions regarding her complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
account block
Ill deal first with the banks decision to block Mrs Ws access to the payments made into her 
account in August 2018. As the investigator has already explained, Santander has extensive 
legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to 
customers. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on 
accounts and ask customers for information about payments  its entitled and obliged to 
carry out such checks to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from financial crime. The terms of Mrs Ws accounts also permit Santander to block payments, accounts 
and ask for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mrs Ws accounts and ask her for information about the two payments 
which had been paid into her account in August 2018. Santander has explained that this was 
its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Having looked at the activity on Mrs Ws 
account statements I can see that the two payments were out of character. Mrs W had not 
previously received any international payments and the accounts had mainly been funded by 
cash deposits of less than £1,000. 
According to Mrs Ws account application form, shed also told the bank that she was a 
student and there were no obvious links between Mrs W and the company which had sent 
the payments.  In addition, the sending bank had contacted Santander to say that the 
payments had been made to Mrs W in error  in other words the money wasnt meant for 
her. So, I can understand why Santander had concerns and wanted to find out more about 
them. Whilst I accept this caused Mrs W inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated her 
unfairly when it blocked her accounts and asked her to provide information. Santander were 
within its rights to review the operation of Mrs Ws account. 
release of money
The crux of Mrs Ws complaint is that she wants the blocked payments totalling just over 
£46,000 that was paid into her account released to her. Mrs W has said that the payments 
were dividend payments her husband received from his business partner in Hong Kong. She 
says the money was paid directly to her to fund her life in the UK. 
Mrs W has provided paperwork to support what shes said which includes a copy of her 
marriage certificate, company registrations, information about shareholders and agreements 
regarding the dividend payments. Santander didnt think the information Mrs W provided was 
sufficient, and I can understand the banks concerns. I say this because despite the 
paperwork Mrs W has provided, the bank still had a message from the sending bank to say 
that the money paid into Mrs Ws account in August 2018 was done so in error. This 
suggests that Mrs W isnt entitled to the money. And so far, I havent seen any evidence 
which suggests otherwise. I note too that Santander has made repeated attempts to contact 
the sending bank but to date hasnt received sufficient information to either release the 
money to Mrs W or return the money. 
It maybe that Mrs W can now provide more information about the remaining funds. But, in 
the circumstances, I can understand why Santander didnt consider Mrs W had adequately 
explained her entitlement to the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mrs W unfairly 
when it decided not to release the money to her. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. 
Service issues
Mrs W says she had to chase Santander to try and find out what was happening with the 
money in her account and move things along. Santander has accepted its service fell short 
and didnt respond to Mrs W when it said it would. It has apologised to Mrs W and offered 
her £100 compensation. And a further £50. Ive no doubt that having to chase the bank 
repeatedly caused Mrs W a good deal of frustration and inconvenience. But I think the 
banks offer is a reasonable reflection of what went wrong and the impact on Mrs W. So, Im 
not going to ask Santander to do anything more regarding this aspect of Mrs Ws complaint. I 
think the offer of £150 is fair and reasonable.Mrs W has told us that English isnt her first language, and as a result she had difficulty 
understanding what the bank needed from her and how she could access the money in her 
account. Shes said she found the whole experience quite confusing and upsetting because 
of her poor English. And feels the bank treated her unfairly. Shes explained that it was only 
when a friend stepped in and was able to speak to the bank on her behalf that she 
understood what the bank wanted. 
Santander says whilst it noted Mrs W spoke little English at the time, Mrs W was able to 
withdraw her balance. And understood that she needed to provide evidence of her 
entitlement to the funds which were paid into her account at the end of August 2018 
(although this was insufficient). Santander said that when it tried to call Mrs W in August 
2018 about the payments, it spoke to someone on her behalf, so it was able to communicate 
with Mrs W albeit via third party. Santander also pointed out that Mrs W had subsequently 
made adjustments herself to help her communicate with the bank, and appointed her friend, 
Miss M to act as her representative  in other words there was nothing left for the bank to do 
as Mrs W had taken care of things herself. I dont agree. 
From looking at the banks complaint notes I can see the bank has on more than once 
occasion noted that Mrs W didnt speak a great deal of English. So, Im satisfied that the 
bank knew Mrs W needed some help to understand what was happening with her accounts. 
But I cant see that Santander took any steps to support Mrs W, such as offering translation 
support services that many other financial service providers offer. 
I cant be sure how things were explained to Mrs W when she went into branch as I wasnt 
there. I dont know how well she was able to understand what was happening or how much 
assistance she needed from the bank staff. So, Ive thought about what would be considered 
good industry practice. Whilst Mrs W was able to withdraw her account balance, that 
shouldnt necessarily have prevented Santander from offering her support to help her 
understand what was needed to show she was entitled to the money that had been paid into 
her account. 
I note that the information needed by the bank regarding Mrs Ws entitlement to the funds, 
only became available once Mrs W had the assistance of her friend, Miss M, who could 
communicate with the bank on her behalf. But this didnt happen until August 2019. I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs W wouldve provided this information much sooner if shed 
understood the banks request properly which would have been possible if Santander had 
offered her the support of translation services.  
I can also see that despite Santander being aware of Mrs Ws limited ability to understand 
English it wrote to her on more than one occasion in English, before Miss M came into the 
picture who wouldve then translated the banks letters and responded on her behalf. And 
whilst I accept that Santander managed to speak to someone when it first tried to call Mrs W, 
in August 2018,  I havent seen anything to suggest this person was acting as Mrs Ws 
representative. So, overall, I can understand why Mrs W says she felt anxious and confused 
when she tried to sort things out with Santander. Based on the evidence, I currently think the 
bank had sufficient reason to think Mrs W wouldnt understand its letters and its requests 
about what she needed to provide regarding the payments. And that Mrs W was caused 
trouble and upset. So, I agree with the investigator, that Santander should pay Mrs W £100 
compensation. 
Account closure
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Ws account. Its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Miss Ws bank with 30 days notice. Having looked at all the evidence, in 
my view that wasnt unreasonable given the banks concerns about how Mrs W was 
operating her accounts. And the information it had received from the sending bank. Im 
satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. So, I 
cant say the bank has done anything wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly when it closed her 
accounts. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award compensation for that since I dont 
believe Santander acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.
So, to put things right I said Santander should:
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mrs W £150 compensation for its poor service 
caused by not responding to her correspondence and
pay Mrs W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not providing a 
translation service 
Santander accepted my provisional decision. Mrs W responded to say she accepted the 
provisional decision. But wanted to know how she could access the funds in the account and 
doesnt think it is fair that Santander are waiting Now both sides have had an opportunity to 
comment I can go ahead and issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view to partly uphold the complaint for the same reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs W said she doesnt understand why Santander 
are waiting for an indemnity despite providing what she thinks, is enough information to 
show she is entitled to the money paid into her account.  So, she thinks its unfair for 
Santander to continue to hold onto the money. And says shes essentially caught between 
two banks. 
I understand Mrs W thinks there is no basis for Santander to have blocked her access to the 
payments made into her account in August 2018. And that shes given the bank 
documentation to show she is entitled to the money. But Ive also had to consider Mrs Ws 
position alongside all the wider information available to me, including the regulatory and 
legal obligations Santander must balance when taking decisions. And the information it 
received from the sending bank (which Ive seen)  that said Mrs W wasnt entitled to the 
money and that it had been paid into Mrs Ws account in error, which contradicts what 
Mrs W has said about the money.
In doing so, Im satisfied Santander made a legitimate and proportionate decision in not 
releasing the money to Mrs W. This doesnt of course mean that I think Mrs W has 
committed any crime or wrongdoing. That is not what I need to decide; nor was it required of 
Santander to decide in order to take the action they did. I can see that Santander has 
contacted the sending bank on more than one occasion. And each time it has said the 
money was sent in error. I dont know why the sending bank hasnt provided an indemnity as Santander has requested. And I cant hold Santander responsible for the actions of another 
bank. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mrs W unfairly when it decided not to release the 
money to her. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. Having looked at all the evidence, Im 
also satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and relevant regulations 
when it closed Mrs Ws accounts. 
Mrs W says she had to chase Santander to try and find out what was happening with the 
money in her account and move things along. Santander has accepted its service fell short 
and didnt respond to Mrs W when it said it would. It has apologised to Mrs W and offered 
her £100 compensation. And a further £50 for delays. Ive no doubt that having to chase the 
bank repeatedly caused Mrs W a good deal of frustration and inconvenience. But I think the 
banks offer is a reasonable reflection of what went wrong and the impact on Mrs W. So, Im 
not going to ask Santander to do anything more regarding this aspect of Mrs Ws complaint. I 
think the offer of £150 is fair and reasonable.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Santander were aware 
of Mrs Ws limited ability to understand English. And should have provided her with the 
support of translation services. Had it done so, I think its likely Mrs W wouldve been able to 
provide the information the bank requested sooner as she wouldve been able to understand 
more clearly what was needed. And wouldnt have been upset and anxious when trying to 
sort things out with the bank. So, I agree with the investigator, that Santander should pay 
Mrs W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset she was caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I partially uphold Mrs Ws complaint 
against Santander UK Plc.
To put things right Santander UK Plc should:
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mrs W £150 compensation for its poor service 
caused by not responding to her correspondence and
pay Mrs W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not providing 
Mrs W with support to help her understand what was needed to help sort things out 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman