DRN-3077944
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the advice he was given by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to switch his personal pension to a self invested personal pension plan (SIPP). The 
SIPP funds were then used to invest in several unregulated collective investment schemes 
(UCIS).
What happened
In 2012 Mr P was introduced to Portal, by an unregulated business Ill call Firm A, for a 
pension review. Firm As client information form recorded Mr P was aged 46, in good 
health, with an intended retirement age of 60, and was employed with a salary of £30,000 
and monthly disposable income of £500. It noted that Mr P was cohabiting, and his main 
residence was valued at £150,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £95,000. And that he 
had no other assets, investments or savings. The form recorded Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) 
as adventurous, the highest possible ATR listed. An additional notes section set out an 
allocation between UCIS (totalling 87.5%) and cash (12.5%):
Portal gathered further information about Mr Ps circumstance and objectives. Its introduced 
business form recorded Mr P wanted better performance than his current [personal 
pension] is providing. Client has a very adventurous attitude to risk. It recorded the annual 
management charge (AMC) of Mr Ps personal pension as 1% compared to 0.5% for a SIPP 
through a provider Ill call Firm C, though it noted that funds may be more expensive. It 
listed the funds Mr Ps current pension was invested into, and projected their growth to be 
0.0% and 0.6% in five years time. And it noted Due to the clients appetite for better 
performance I believe it would be in there [sic] interest to transfer to [Firm C]. Client aware of 
liquidity but cannot access funds until 2020 at the earliest. Clients ATR is appropriate for 
investing in Alternatives.
An undated and unsigned introducer checklist recorded that Mr Ps personal pension had 
no guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) or protected tax free cash (TFC).
Portal prepared a pension switch report. This recorded Mr Ps objectives were to have the 
option of TFC at age 55; retain a residual fund that stayed invested until he needed a 
retirement income; be aware of available investment opportunities; ensure his portfolio 
reflected his current risk and reward profile; have access to a system that would monitor the 
performance of his investments; be kept informed of his portfolios investments. It recorded 
Mr Ps age and occupation, and that he was living with his partner. And that his personal 
pension fund had a transfer value of £13,599. 
Portals pension switch report recommended Mr P switch his personal pension to a SIPP 
with Firm C, due to the possibility it would exceed the benefits available through his existing 
person pension.  It said the answers Mr P gave indicated his ATR was adventurous. And 
recommended Mr P invest his SIPP funds into UCIS and cash as follows, a similar allocation 
to that set out in Firm As client information form:
40% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
17.5% Cool Blue Fractional Plus Fund
22.5% Venture Oil International
7.5% EOS Solar Energy
12.5% cash
Portals pension switch report did note UCIS may carry greater risks, gave less protection 
and right of redress, and usually required a sophisticated understanding of investments. 
However, it also said You are not a person who is exempt under the FSMA 2000 PCIS 
orders i.e. a high net worth or sophisticated investor, however you are a person for whom we 
as an Independent Advisory Firm qualified to advise on UCIS investments have taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that the investment in the particular collective investment 
scheme(s) is suitable following a full KYC (Know Your Customer Investigation) and ATR 
(Attitude to Risk Assessment), this therefore provides an exemption under COBS (Conduct 
of Business) regulations 4.12.
The pension switch report also said Portal would charge Mr P an initial adviser charge of 
5% of the total transfer value and an ongoing charge of 1% per annum to manage the 
investments; that Firm C would charge him an initial set-up fee of 0.2% of the fund, and an 
annual administration fee of 0.5% plus £80; and an enclosed illustration set out the SIPP 
funds AMCs and individual fund charges, though Ive not been provided with this illustration.
On Portals advice, Mr Ps personal pension was switched to a SIPP with Firm C and 
invested in several UCIS and cash. 
A note of a telephone call from Firm C suggests Mr P removed Portal as his adviser in 2015, 
though Mr P says this isnt something he would have contacted Portal to do.
In 2019 Mr P complained to Portal about the suitability of its advice, saying his very limited 
knowledge of investments meant he was totally reliant on its advice. And that the total value 
of his SIPP funds had fallen to £1,563.16. 
In response, Portal didnt accept any liability but said that if the issues with interest payments 
from Mr Ps SIPP funds werent resolved by his state retirement age, Portal would itself pay 
Mr P a retirement income. However, Portal also said Mr P had brought his complaint too 
late, as the advice Mr P complained of was given more than six years ago. It also said Mr P 
ought reasonably to have realised he had cause for complaint more than three years ago, 
since he hadnt received any income from his pension investment since 2013.
Mr P rejected Portals offer and brought his complaint to our Service. He wanted to be 
financially compensated and to have access to his pension now hed reached age 55. 
Ultimately an Ombudsman at our Service decided Mr P had brought his complaint about 
Portals pension advice within the time limits.
Our Service therefore went on to consider the merits of that complaint, and our Investigator 
upheld it. He thought Portal gave Mr P unsuitable advice, as Mr P wouldnt benefit from 
switching his personal pension to a SIPP.  And that the UCIS investments were unsuitable 
for Mr P given his circumstances. To put things right, our Investigator said Portal should put 
Mr P back in the position he should have been in but for its unsuitable advice. And that it 
should also pay Mr P £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its unsuitable 
advice caused him.
Portal didnt agree its advice was unsuitable. It said it had thoroughly assessed Mr Ps ATR 
using a third party risk profiling system, and Mr Ps ATR was very adventurous. That its 
adviser had considered Mr Ps circumstances and capacity for loss. And they had thought 
the switch was suitable for Mr P because he could access more adventurous alternative 
funds and this was in Mr Ps best interest at the time of the advice. Portal also said this wouldnt have been Mr Ps only pension provision, because in 2012, the year it gave this 
advice, Mr Ps employer became obliged to automatically enrol Mr P into its occupational 
pension scheme. Portal said this would have increased Mr Ps capacity for loss and enabled 
him to take more risk with his existing, and modestly valued, personal pension, which would 
likely then not be his main retirement provision. 
Our Investigator didnt change their opinion. They said Mr P didnt fall into the category of a 
suitable investor for UCIS. And the majority of his SIPP was invested in UCIS, beyond the 
5% the regulator said was a suitable amount. Our Investigator asked Portal for evidence of 
the risk profile assessment that was completed, but this wasnt provided by Portal. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered whether Portals advice to switch Mr Ps existing pension plans was suitable, 
and I dont think it was.
At the time of the advice, Mr P was 46 years old, employed, in good health, and had around 
14 years until he intended to retire. He owned a home but had a significant outstanding 
mortgage amount. And it wasnt recorded that he had any other savings or investments apart 
from his personal pension. That personal pension was invested in equity and index tracker 
funds, so with some element of risk.
I acknowledge Portal says Mr Ps employer would have been obliged to automatically enrol 
him in its occupational pension scheme in 2012, the year Portal advised Mr P. But no such 
pension was recorded by Portal. It would have been a new pension in any case, and it isnt 
known how much Mr Ps employer would be paying in and how much Mr P could afford to 
contribute to it. So I think its reasonable to conclude the personal pension being switched 
formed most, if not all, of Mr Ps retirement provision at the time of the advice.
Portal recorded that Mr P wanted better performance, access to TFC at 55 whilst keeping 
some funds invested, for his investment to match his ATR, to be aware of investment 
opportunities, and to have access to a system for monitoring the performance of his 
investments. The first three of these objectives may or may not have been achieved by 
switching. But I dont think they provided sufficient reason for Mr P to switch his personal 
pension to a SIPP. And Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr P needed to be aware of 
investment opportunities or access to a system for monitoring his investments - as Ill return 
to, I dont think Mr P was an experienced or knowledgeable investor. 
The regulators 2009 report regarding pensions switching identified key considerations. One 
of these was unnecessary additional costs. Portals introduced business form recorded the 
AMC of Mr Ps existing personal pension was 1%, with no other costs recorded. Portals 
pension switch report said Portal would charge Mr P an initial adviser charge of 5% of the 
total transfer value and an ongoing charge of 1% per annum to manage the investments; 
that Firm C would charge him an initial set-up fee of 0.2% of the fund, and an annual 
administration fee of 0.5% plus £80; and an enclosed illustration set out the SIPP funds 
AMCs and individual fund charges, though Ive not been provided with this illustration. Based 
on this, I think there was a significant cost to the switch and it would result in Mr P paying 
higher ongoing annual fees. In my view, any increased costs would provide a good reason not to proceed with the switch. 
So, the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Mr Ps pension, as he was 
unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through improved fund performance over the 
short to medium term. So, Ive considered whether it wouldve still been suitable advice to 
switch despite the increased costs.
Mr P wanted to be able to take TFC at age 55 and leave the funds invested. It isnt clear 
whether Mr Ps existing pension allowed for this  Portal didnt establish this, which it should 
have. But even if it didnt allow for this, it was still nine years before Mr P could access TFC. 
And Portal didnt establish why Mr P wanted access to TFC, so switching for this reason was 
premature and could have been explored closer to age 55.
Mr Ps other objectives appear to be based around him investing in UCIS  Portal says Mr P 
wanted his portfolio to reflect his current ATR and he wanted to be able to take advantage of 
other investment opportunities. Portal recorded Mr Ps ATR as adventurous. It says it 
reached this conclusion after carrying out a thorough assessment of Mr Ps ATR and this 
assessment supports Mr Ps need to switch his pension so he could access alternative 
investments more in line with his ATR. 
Despite a request from our Service, Portal hasnt provided a copy of this underlying 
assessment. But based on the evidence I have been provided with, Im satisfied 
adventurous wasnt a fair or reasonable categorisation of Mr Ps ATR. I note Portal 
recorded Mr Ps existing personal pension as being invested in equity and index tracker 
funds, which is supported by the 2008 pensions documentation Mr P has provided. So I 
accept Mr Ps existing pension investments had an element of risk. And Mr P had about 14 
years until retirement, so there was time for him to take some risk and still grow his pension 
before retirement. However, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr P was an experienced or 
knowledgeable investor  Mr P did not, in any way, reflect Portals description of an 
adventurous investor in the pension switch report. And given what Portal recorded of his 
circumstances at the time of its advice, I dont think Mr P had any real capacity for loss. So, I 
dont think he was in a position to lose the funds held in this pension. 
Given that I dont think Mr P had an adventurous ATR, I dont think he needed to switch his 
pension to a SIPP. I dont think he had the investment knowledge or experience to be able to 
take on the risks associated with investing in alternative assets. And Im satisfied that Mr P 
couldve switched funds within his personal pension if he wanted to take more of a risk. 
Portal also said Mr P wanted to be kept informed of the performance of his portfolio, which 
seems to suggest he would require ongoing reviews of his investments. But Im not 
persuaded this was a genuine objective for Mr P  rather it was a consequence of the 
ongoing advice arrangement that Portal recommended to him, for which it said it would 
charge Mr P 1% per year. As Ive said above, I dont think Mr P had an adventurous ATR. 
I think investing in mainstream funds wouldve met his needs, and he couldve done this by 
remaining with his personal pension. His former provider provided annual statements that 
explained the value of his funds and provided projections as to his future retirement income. 
So, I think Mr Ps existing arrangement already met that need.
For these reasons, I think Portals advice to switch Mr Ps existing personal pension to a 
SIPP was unsuitable. I also think Portals advice to invest Mr Ps SIPP funds into UCIS was 
unsuitable. Ill explain why. 
Portal also advised Mr P to invest the majority of his SIPP funds into UCIS, with only 12.5% 
allocated elsewhere (to cash), presumably to cover ongoing charges. I acknowledge Portals 
pension switch report noted UCIS may carry greater risks, gave less protection and right of redress, and usually required a sophisticated understanding of investments. And that it said 
You are not a person who is exempt under the FSMA 2000 PCIS orders i.e. a high net 
worth or sophisticated investor, however you are a person for whom we as an Independent 
Advisory Firm qualified to advise on UCIS investments have taken reasonable steps to 
ensure that the investment in the particular collective investment scheme(s) is suitable 
following a full KYC (Know Your Customer Investigation) and ATR (Attitude to Risk 
Assessment), this therefore provides an exemption under COBS (Conduct of Business) 
regulations 4.12.
But I think the regulators 2010 findings are relevant here. It said that UCIS was eligible for 
promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high net worth investors). But even 
when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved 
restricting a clients exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. 
I dont think investing in UCIS was suitable for Mr P at all, let alone in the proportion 
invested. UCIS are high risk investments because they are volatile, illiquid and highly 
specialised. Theres nothing to indicate Mr P had the necessary knowledge or experience to 
understand and accept the risks associated with these types of investments. And Portal 
advised Mr P to invest over 80% of his SIPP into UCIS, far in excess of the 3% to 5% 
restriction the regulator says was good practice even for certain customers. 
As Ive said, Portal was incorrect to categorise Mr Ps ATR as adventurous at the time of 
the advice, based on the way his existing pension was invested, his capacity for loss and his 
term to retirement. I think a medium risk approach was more suitable for Mr P. So I dont 
think Portals advice to invest any of Mr Ps pension funds in UCIS was a suitable 
investment, as it didnt match Mr Ps ATR.  
Taking everything into consideration, I think Portal gave Mr P unsuitable advice to switch his 
personal pension to a SIPP and to invest his SIPP into UCIS. So, it follows that Im 
upholding the complaint and requiring Portal to compensate Mr P for his loss as a result of 
the unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr P's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of 
the unsuitable advice. Mr Ps circumstances have changed since the advice, and 
hes had some financial difficulty. I think Mr P would be distressed and concerned to 
see the pension hed built up for retirement lose most of its value.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr P provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mr P can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, 
simple format.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman