DRN-3750389
The complaint
Mr N complains that Gain Capital UK Limited (Gain) enticed him into opening a Contracts for 
Difference (CFD) trading account without ensuring it was appropriate for him, or ensuring he 
understood the risks involved.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
I acknowledge the impact and upset the losses have caused Mr N. But I can only 
uphold the complaint and award redress if Im satisfied Gain did something wrong. 
Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr Ns losses were caused 
by any error on Gains part.
The account was an execution only account  meaning Gain werent required to 
provide any advice to Mr N or ensure the account was suitable. The rules in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) meant Gain was entitled to rely on Mr Ns 
relevant knowledge and experience to establish whether the trading account was 
appropriate for him.
Im satisfied the questions which Gain asked Mr N were sufficient to establish he had 
relevant knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in trading CFDs. 
Ive seen no evidence that suggests Gain should have doubted the answers provided 
by Mr N, and based on the answers he did give, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Gain to conclude the account was appropriate.
Gains risk notice appropriately detailed the high degree of risk this type of trading 
posed to Mr N, and Ive not seen any evidence which indicates Gain should have 
completed further tests or reviews of the account.
I fully acknowledge the impact accessing this account has had on Mr N  and the 
upset that his subsequent losses have caused him. But again, Id have to be satisfied 
that Gain had done something wrong for those losses to be the responsibility of Gain.
Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Gain to have concluded Mr N had 
sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks of trading CFDs, and to 
allow Mr N to open his account and trade.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman