DRN-3357576
Complaint
Mrs E has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected her claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mrs E bought solar panels for her home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs E alleges that the installer misled Mrs E into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mrs Es complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She initially thought the 
complaint should be upheld. However, Ikano pointed out that the documents from the time of 
sale indicated that the installer had made it clear the panels would not be self-funding. 
On review of those documents, our adjudicator explained that, the documents from the time 
of sale had made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel system would not cover the 
monthly finance payments. And therefore, the system would not be immediately self-funding 
in the way Mrs E says she was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did not think a 
misrepresentation had taken place.
Mrs E (through her representatives), disagreed. Her representatives submitted a document 
that indicated she would not have to make any contributions towards the monthly finance 
payments. She reiterated that she hadnt paid attention to the documents and she relied on 
the verbal representations made by the installer. 
Our adjudicator reviewed the evidence, but it didnt change her view of the complaint as she 
felt the original sales documents were more reliable evidence. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a final decision.
 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
The estimated returns documents sets out the likely performance of the solar panels. I can 
see that the cash price and the monthly finance payments are directly set out next to the 
estimated benefit the solar panels will provide. Also, directly adjacent to this, the documents 
sets out what the monthly shortfall in payments is likely to be. 
As you can see, none of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view 
clearly visible. 
Im satisfied that Mrs E was provided with this particular sales document, as her 
representative sent us a copy when the complaint was originally raised, so Mrs E had a copy 
in her possession. The document is dated, which is the same date that she agreed to the 
credit agreement. The text, as you can see, has been handwritten and has also been circled 
indicating they were discussed to some degree. The facts and figures are detailed and 
reflective of Mrs Es actual monthly loan payments and estimated year one benefit, which is 
repeated throughout the sales documents. So, I think its likely that she wouldve seen these 
figures at the time of sale, and that this is reliable evidence of the information she was likely 
provided with at the point of sale. 
Based on the above, I think its clear that the solar panel system would not be immediately 
self-funding, and that there would likely be a monthly shortfall.  
 
Mrs E representatives have recently submitted a document which indicates shed have to 
make zero contribution towards the finance payment. This document isnt dated or signed 
and wasnt submitted as part of the original sales pack when Mrs E originally raised this 
complaint. I understand her representatives have explained this document was presented to 
her during the sales meeting, but it was withheld by their own claims handler. However, I 
note the estimated yearly benefit is also not consistent with the earlier document and this 
document appears to set out the performance of the solar panels against the finance over a 
25-year period, not the 10-year loan term. 
While Mrs E says she was led to believe the panels would be immediately self-funding, she 
hasnt been able to tell us how the salesperson explained how the shortfall set out in the 
original document would be covered. 
Overall, Im persuaded the original estimated returns document is more reliable evidence of 
the likely information she was provided with at the point of sale when considering her costs 
against the benefit during the term of the loan. And I think it would have been clear to her 
that the solar panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan and that there 
would likely be a monthly shortfall. 
If Mrs E had been told something different, on reviewing and discussing the estimated 
returns document, I would have expected her to have questioned what she had been told. 
Ive seen no evidence that she did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did 
not contradict Mrs Es understanding at that time  that there would likely be a monthly 
shortfall in her finance payments during the term of the loan.  
Id like to reassure Mrs E and her representatives, that I have carefully considered Mrs Es 
recollection of the sale as well as all the documents submitted. But I find the original 
estimated returns document from the time of sale to be more reliable, in terms of what 
information she was likely given when comparing the costs and benefit of the solar panels 
during the term of the loan. So, on balance, in this case, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence that there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman