DRN-3456821
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt action drawdown requests from his Open Plan 
Mortgage (OPM) facility in a timely manner.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr M requested to drawdown funds from his Barclays OPM facility; this 
request was increased in October 2021. The drawdown wasnt actioned until November 
2021. Mr M has said he suffered a financial loss because of Barclays delays as he needed 
to use his Barclays overdraft to bridge the gap in his borrowing need, and this attracted a 
higher rate of interest. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service earlier this year after being dissatisfied with 
Barclays investigation into the delays. He also made us aware of similar delays with a 
drawdown request he made in January 2022. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. She understood there had been 
a technical error which had caused the delays. Barclays had offered Mr M £200 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience this had caused, and she considered that to be 
fair in the individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I recently issued a provisional decision where I set out, with reasons, my initial thoughts on 
this case and what I was intending to decide. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This includes Mr Ms specific requests and requirements on what he considers our service 
should do as part of our investigation of his complaint; and what my decision should 
comment on and make a finding on. Id like to assure Mr M that Ive carefully reviewed all of 
the evidence I have on file at this time, provided by both him and Barclays. But my decision 
here focuses on what I consider to be the key details of this complaint. That isnt to say Ive 
not considered everything hes said, but that I wont be commenting on everything within my 
decision. 
Mr Ms original complaint to Barclays was about the time taken for the drawdown in 
September 2021 to be actioned. Mr M has made us aware of further time delays with a 
drawdown requested in January 2022. So, as this appears to be an ongoing issue, and 
Barclays has provided this service with comments in relation to the January 2022 drawdown, 
Ive also considered this as part of this complaint. However, I havent reviewed the historical 
issue Mr M has commented on. This is because, as our investigator explained, it appears to 
have occurred around 12 years ago and there are time limits Mr M needs to adhere to when 
bringing a complaint to our service. However, I have taken into account as part of my review 
here that Mr M has experienced similar issues on a number of occasions. 
I think its important Im able to understand how the drawdown process should work once 
requested by a Barclays customer, so I can consider whether Barclays met its standards and 
procedures and its actions here were fair and reasonable. I asked Barclays to provide me 
with its policy and/or procedure for drawdown requests from an OPM facility.
Barclays has provided some information in relation to the OPM facility which appears to 
indicate the process it follows when a drawdown is received. But this information doesnt 
comment on timescales for the process to be completed. From the information Ive been 
provided it is silent on this. It therefore leads me to conclude, currently, that Barclays may 
not have a defined timescale for drawdowns from an OPM facility. So, in the absence of any 
other evidence specifically providing details of its timescales, Ive proceeded to consider 
along the lines of how long, on balance, I would reasonably expect this process to take.  
The OPM facility is a pre-approved facility which means no assessment of affordability is 
required when a request is received. In fact, it appears it is solely an administrative process 
for the funds to be drawn down from the OPM facility into a nominated bank account. Within 
Barclays internal communications Ive seen reference to requests taking between three to 
five working days. So, Im currently minded to say that a reasonable timeframe to process 
the request would be up to five working days.
In Barclays final response dated November 2021, it has said the September 2021 drawdown 
was delayed because of technicalities. In its submissions to this service Ive seen the 
technicalities it mentions appear to be in relation to the spend limit on Mr Ms facility being 
set at zero; which was communicated to Mr M during its complaint process. It appears from 
Barclays internal communications that there was much confusion as to why a zero limit had 
been set. There was much activity in identifying this issue which became apparent after a 
week or two, and further investigation in identifying how to resolve the issue. From the 
evidence I have, it doesnt appear that Barclays were able to identify why the limit had been 
reduced  but it has agreed throughout the process that Mr M had well in excess of the 
£25,000 available to him in September 2021 that hed requested. 
It took Barclays around two months to resolve this issue before Mr M received the 
drawdown. A similar situation appears to have occurred in January 2022 when Mr M 
requested a further drawdown from his OPM facility. This drawdown was successfully 
completed within a shorter timeframe; but was still significantly longer than the five working 
days that I consider, as Ive found above, to be a reasonable timeframe for a drawdown to 
be completed. 
Having reviewed the details currently available to me its clear the delays in the drawdowns 
were due to errors on Barclays part; and had these errors not occurred these drawdowns 
should reasonably have been completed in a much shorter timeframe. So, Barclays needs to 
ensure Mr M hasnt lost out financially as a result of its errors. In order to do this Mr M will 
need to provide the details of the losses he says hes incurred.
As part of our review we asked Mr M to provide evidence of the financial loss he says hes 
suffered because of the time it took Barclays to process the request in September 2021. 
Mr M said he has suffered losses since 2010 as he has paid interest on his overdraft which 
attracts a higher rate of interest. He didnt provide details of the financial loss as he said it 
should be for Barclays to provide our service with this as it holds the information. 
As Ive explained above, my decision here deals with the drawdown requests in September 
2021 and January 2022  so, Im not looking at the drawdown request Mr M refers to from 
around 2010.While I understand Mr Ms sentiment about Barclays having access to the information, there 
is a responsibility on both parties to a complaint to provide evidence to support their 
arguments; and claims to any redress they consider is owed. So, while I understand Mr Ms 
bank account is held with Barclays, he would need to provide the exact details of how much 
money was borrowed by way of the Barclays overdraft and for how long, as while this 
information is available to Barclays, only Mr M will be aware of the finer details. 
Ive also considered the non-financial loss Mr M has suffered. Barclays made an offer in its 
final response dated November 2021 to pay Mr M £200 in recognition of the timescales 
involved in the September 2021 drawdown; and the level of service he received as part of 
that process. 
Mr M has provided a great level of detail in relation to the communication he sent Barclays 
and conversations he had with its staff on phone calls and in branch around the September 
2021 drawdown request. It appears, from the evidence I have, that most  if not all  of 
Mr Ms email communication went unanswered from around late September 2021 to around 
late October 2021. 
I note there were occasions where Mr M sent multiple emails and chased answers the 
following day. I do consider Mr Ms level of communication to be excessive at times, and 
Barclays should be provided a reasonable period of time to reply. But I do understand 
Mr Ms frustration that no responses appeared forthcoming from Barclays; and that what 
appeared to him to be a straightforward drawdown request was taking an unreasonably long 
time to complete  which had financial and non-financial implications on him. I note from 
Barclays internal communications that there was a lot of activity to try and resolve this issue 
for Mr M, but I consider it should have kept Mr M better updated throughout.
Ive also taken into account the same issues Mr M appears to have encountered when he 
requested further funds from his OPM facility in January 2022. While the timescales for the 
funds to be drawn down appear to be shorter here, it was still longer than I consider 
reasonable based on my findings above. And I can understand Mr Ms concerns that 
Barclays hadnt learnt and taken on board its previous errors. 
I consider the issues Mr M suffered with both drawdowns will have caused him distress and 
significant inconvenience. Ive thought about the £200 Barclays has offered for the delays in 
processing the request in September 2021, and Im currently minded to say it should pay 
more. Mr M didnt have the funds from his OPM facility for around two months and he 
needed to obtain funds via a different means. Mr M was put to a fair amount of 
inconvenience chasing Barclays for updates; having many phone calls as well as email 
communication  with much of the email communication seemingly going unanswered. And 
he experienced similar issues just a couple of months later.
Because of this Im currently minded to say Barclays should pay Mr M a total of £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience I consider its errors and level of service has caused him.
Barclays didnt respond to my provision decision. Mr M responded with a number of points 
which Ive summarised below:
There is no mention within the provisional decision as to Barclays breach of the 
principles of Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) in relation to its operation of the OPM 
facility;
Mr M has requested evidence that Barclays has implemented procedural changes to 
ensure its customers dont experience the same issues with OPM facility drawdown 
requests in future; 
Mr M has requested evidence that our service has reviewed all of the OPM facility drawdowns hes made since 2010; and
Mr M says a minimum of £500 compensation should be considered for each of the 
September 2021 and January 2022 drawdown requests, when taking into account his 
time involved in dealing with the matters and the emotional distress suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the additional points Mr M has provided; but it doesnt lead me to 
reach a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ive explained why and 
answered each of Mr Ms points below.
Im required to take into account relevant laws and regulation (amongst other things) in 
deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a 
complaint. I accept the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles (relevant at the time of these 
two drawdown requests) require Barclays to pay due regard to Mr Ms interests and to treat 
him fairly  and to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. It isnt for me to say 
if there has been a technical breach of the Principles or to punish Barclays if there had been. 
But I agree having looked at everything thats happened here, that Barclays hasnt acted 
fairly or reasonably. As a result, I will look for Mr M to be put back in the financial position he 
would have been in had Barclays acted fairly; and to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience he has been caused because it did not do so.
Similar to what Ive explained above, its not this services role to tell a business how it 
should operate or what policies or processes it should have in place. It is Barclays 
responsibility to ensure it has adequate procedures in place to allow the effective operation 
of its products and services. As such, Im not in a position to tell Barclays or ensure it has 
appropriate procedures in place to ensure the effective operation of OPM facility drawdowns 
in future  for Mr M or any other customer. 
Mr Ms original complaint to this service concerned the drawdown request made in 
September 2021; and later evolved to include the similar issues experienced with a further 
drawdown request made in January 2022. My decision here doesnt consider any previous 
drawdown requests Mr M may have concerns with. While he made reference to similar 
historic issues, this wasnt the basis of his complaint to Barclays; or this service. As I 
explained within my provisional decision, if Mr M wishes to raise concerns with historic 
drawdown requests, hell need to first raise these with Barclays, if he hasnt already, and 
allow it to provide its response in line with its regulatory obligations before our service can 
become involved.
Mr M has said he should receive a minimum of £500 compensation for the issues 
encountered with each of the drawdown requests Ive considered. I dont doubt the 
inconvenience Mr M was put to because of the delays with the drawdowns, the time he 
spent trying to resolve the issues, and the distress this inevitably caused; but I cant agree 
that an award of around £1,000 would be reasonable compensation here. 
We publish guidance about awards for non-financial loss on our website. Based on the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint Im satisfied a total of £500 is in line with this 
guidance; and fairly compensates him for the impact of the delays with the drawdowns.
I say this because I do agree that Mr M was put to considerable distress and significant 
inconvenience because of Barclays errors; and this needed extra effort from Mr M to resolve. 
This is evidenced by the level of contact Mr M had with Barclays, both between September and November 2021; and in January and February 2022. Mr M needed to chase Barclays on 
numerous occasions and, as Ive found above, didnt always receive timely 
acknowledgements or updates to his requests. The drawdown in September 2021 took 
around two months to complete; and the drawdown in January 2022 took around a month to 
complete, so the impact to Mr M here did last weeks and months. Mr M has said he had to 
arrange other finance at a higher cost to him because of the delays with the drawdowns  
but redress here is reflected in the financial loss compensation. 
So, to summarise I consider Barclays didnt action Mr Ms OPM facility drawdown requests in 
September 2021 and January 2022 within a reasonable period of time; and it failed to 
reasonably acknowledge and provide Mr M with updates during the complaint process and 
drawdown request in September 2021.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint Barclays should:
Upon receipt of reasonable evidence, compensate Mr M for any additional debit interest 
he has paid when using his Barclays overdraft above the interest rate of his OPM facility 
while the drawdown requests of September 2021 and January 2022 were being 
processed. This compensation should be calculated from the point Mr M used his 
Barclays overdraft to bridge the funding gap but allowing for five working days after the 
drawdown requests were made (as Ive found this is a reasonable timeframe for Barclays 
to have made the funds available to Mr M), up to the point the OPM facility funds were 
available to Mr M  so:
o7 September 2021 drawdown request  compensate from 14 September 2021 to 
the date the funds were available to Mr M
o31 January 2022 drawdown request  compensate from 7 February 2022 to the 
date the funds were available to Mr M; and
In any event, pay Mr M a total of £500 for the distress and inconvenience this situation 
has caused him. This is an additional £300 on top of the £200 it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my recent provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc and require it to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman