DRN-2694518
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a mobile phone insurance policy by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd (CPW) in February 2009, and subsequently.
 
What happened
Mr B said when he bought a mobile phone in 2009 CPWs sales agent sold him insurance 
cover more expensive than the phone by saying it came with the phone. Mr B said the agent 
didnt tell him it was optional or ask if he had cover already but said take it or leave it.
Mr B said the agent forced him to sign a contract and he renewed the policy believing it to be 
compulsory. Mr B bought a new policy for a new phone in 2011 which he soon cancelled and 
retained his original policy. In 2018 Mr B cancelled the original policy and bought a new one 
for a new phone, and successfully claimed for a replacement when his phone was damaged.
When Mr B made a claim on his policy in 2019 he said he discovered the insurance wasnt 
compulsory. He then brought a complaint to CPW about the mis-selling of his policy, but said 
CPW wouldnt compensate him. He said CPW has been fined by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) for mis-selling practices up to 2015. He said he should be paid £2,000 for 
psychological stress and inconvenience together with his premiums and interest.
CPW said the policy had been correctly sold to Mr B. It said that every customer is taken 
through a needs assessment before a policy is sold and given a choice about whether to 
take a policy or not and Mr B had signed to confirm he had been taken through this process. 
Mr B was dissatisfied with this response and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said we cant consider 
complaints about the policies Mr B purchased in 2009 and 2011 as they are out of the time 
limits set by the FCA. She said the 2018 policy was suitable for Mr B as it covered his new 
phone, he didnt have other cover and he claimed on the policy. She said the application 
form made the optional nature of the cover clear and Mr B had cancelled his other policy.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator. He said he was forced to buy the policy and the options 
werent explained. He requested an ombudsman consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering Mr Bs complaint, I havent looked at the phone insurance policies he 
purchased in 2009 and 2011. Mr B cancelled a policy in 2011 and I think he ought to have 
been aware he had cause to complain then that hed been told cover was compulsory. CPW 
objects to our considering complaints about the sale of the policies in 2009 and 2011 and I 
agree with the investigator that they are outside of the timescale for complaints set by the 
FCA rules. I have considered Mr Bs mis-selling complaint concerning his 2018 policy.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policies theyre selling. And for an advised sale (which the sale of this 
policy was) they also need to take reasonable steps to ensure it was suitable for their 
customer. This would include thinking about if they had a need for it and whether they had 
cover elsewhere that could provide the same benefits.
Mr B said he was forced to buy the policy and the options werent explained. He said this is 
clear from the information he has provided. Ive looked carefully at the policy information 
available and from what Ive seen I think the information with which Mr B was provided was 
clear and made it clear he did have options about taking or not taking out the policy. 
Ive seen the Insurance Needs Assessment that CPWs agent completed with Mr B. It sets 
out questions concerning any existing cover and Mr Bs use of the phone. It includes his 
answers and ends with a recommendation for the cover he then took out and his signature. 
This information is confirmed on the Insurance Certificate signed by Mr B. The certificate, 
provided to Mr B when the policy was set up, states, Taking out Knowhow Mobile Complete 
is not compulsory with the purchase of your phone. It also states, If you decide to end your 
policy, please call or go online. The certificate sets out customers rights to cancel the 
policy after the cooling off period and states that if the policy is cancelled a pro rata refund of 
premiums will be made to the customer. Ive also seen a copy of a renewal letter sent to Mr 
B which reminds him of the cover in place and thanks him for choosing it.
I have thought about whether or not the policy was suitable for Mr B. Mr B had just bought a 
new phone and his insurance needs were discussed, and it appears that he requested the 
cover provided. He doesnt appear to have had any alternative cover. In 2019 Mr B claimed 
on the policy for damage sustained to his phone and his claim was paid. From this it would 
appear that Mr B needed and benefitted from his policy and so it would appear that the 
policy was suitable for his needs.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B was forced to sign the insurance contract or told it 
was compulsory. From what Ive seen I think CPW gave Mr B accurate information about the 
policy and I think it was suitable for his needs.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman