DRN-1505571
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold him a credit card. He would like MBNA to 
honour the offer he says they made at the start, or to write off his outstanding balance. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr M took out a credit card provided by MBNA. The card included a 
promotional offer that gave 0% interest for up to 27 months on card purchases made within 
the first 60 days after account opening. 
MBNA later realised that although the credit agreement included all the correct information 
some of their early advertising had failed to mention the 60 day limit on the above offer. 
So, on 25 October 2019 MBNA wrote to Mr M. The letter explained the mistake and said that 
any purchases already made would benefit from 27 months interest free. And that the same 
would apply to purchases made for the further 30 days from the date of the letter. But after 
that, the standard interest rates would apply. 
On 31 October 2019 Mr M complained to MBNA. He said he took the card out or a specific 
purpose and would like the offer to apply for the full 27 months. MBNA responded to the 
complaint but didnt change their position. 
Mr M referred the matter to our service. He says there has been a misrepresentation and 
would like MBNA to clear his outstanding balance (around £2,000). Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He thought MBNA had acted fairly in the 
circumstances, so he didnt recommend that they needed to do more. Mr M doesnt accept 
this and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I agree with our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr M has made reference to the Misrepresentation Act 1967. I take account of the law (as 
well as other factors such as good industry practice and regulations etc) but Im not bound 
by them. My role is to come to an outcome that I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. This means we often dont look at a complaint the same way a court might. 
Sometimes things go wrong and mistakes happen. Here, MBNA have accepted an error, 
apologised and made an offer to put things right. In the circumstances of this complaint, I 
think that is sufficient. 
Mr M was made aware of the mistake and that this wouldnt impact purchases hed already 
made, or further purchases hed go on to make for 30 days. I think this is fair. And whilst I accept Mr M might have been disappointed, I think MBNA gave sufficient time for him to 
make alternative arrangements for any spending he had planned.
Mr M has provided evidence that around this time his credit rating score dropped by two 
points (out of 1,000). I cant fairly conclude with certainty that this is due to anything MBNA 
are responsible for. But even if I could, I dont think a two-point drop made a significant 
difference to Mr Ms ability to apply for credit elsewhere. Particularly as his score remained in 
the excellent category. 
I also understand Mr M was concerned about losing any legal protection provided on 
purchases made with his credit card. But even if he were to pay off his balance and close his 
account, those protections wouldnt be impacted. 
Overall, I dont think Mr M has been treated unfairly by MBNA. So, Im not going to ask them 
to do more to resolve this complaint. I appreciate Mr M is likely to be a disappointed by this 
outcome. But if he rejects my decision, it wont be legally binding. And he is free to pursue 
his dispute with MBNA through other means, such as the courts, should he wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman