DRN-1890488
 
The complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to 
him.                           
What happened
This complaint is about one flexi-loan and five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr W 
between July 2014 and November 2015. Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 09/07/2014 28/04/2015 Flexi-loan £750.00 £277.77
2 18/04/2015 28/09/2015 6 £400.00 £115.68
3 04/05/2015 28/10/2015 6 £400.00 £243.67
4 21/07/2015 08/02/2016 6 £200.00 £310.41
5 13/10/2015 24/03/2016 6 £300.00 £284.18
6 19/11/2015 24/03/2016 6 £350.00 £254.79
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because proportionate checks would have shown Mr W was 
struggling to manage his money. Sunny disagreed but offered to uphold Mr Ws complaint 
about loan 6. Mr W rejected this offer.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1. Mr W didnt 
respond to the view. As there appears that there is no longer a dispute about this loan, I 
wont be making any further findings on it. 
Sunny says it carried out checks before it lent loan 2 to Mr W and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns. But as Mr W already had an established borrowing relationship 
with Sunny  due to the nine months of the flexi-credit loan - I think Sunny should have been 
looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Ws finances before lending him to him again. 
I say this because the behaviour of Mr Ws borrowing with that flexi-loan was an indication 
that he was having problems managing his money. He had taken out the full amount 
available in his first drawdown and for every subsequent drawdown hed taken the maximum 
amount available. He then applied for loan 2 whilst he still had an outstanding amount with 
the flexi-loan so was increasing his indebtedness to Sunny. It was likely this behaviour of 
indebtedness was becoming increasingly more difficult to sustain and Sunny ought to have 
been concerned about that.
Additionally, Mr W paid a significant amount in interest on the flexi-credit loan and I think this 
likely contributed to the overall problem he was evidently facing managing his money. Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 3. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr W was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr W had been indebted to Sunny for 10 months. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr W was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loans were leaving in his finances and that Mr Ws 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ws first loan (the flexi-loan) was for £750, his first instalment loan was for £400 
and loan 3 was also for £400 and was taken out only three weeks after hed taken 
out loan 2  which was still running.  At this point Sunny ought to have known that it 
was unlikely Mr W was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but 
more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 6 was 
taken out 16 months after Mr Ws first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr W had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
 
I think that Mr W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 2 to 6 and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 2 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 3 to 6 should be removed from    
Mr Ws credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman