DRN-1982261
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund payments he says he didnt make 
from his bank account.
What happened
Mr A disputes nine payments from his account which total £6,550. He says he never gave 
out any of his security details and didnt make these payments. Barclays should have 
identified what was happening as suspicious and contacted him to check whether the 
payments were genuine.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the payments 
were made using the Barclays mobile banking app. Most of the log-ins during this time had 
been with touch ID  Mr As fingerprint  and the other few with a passcode. They had been 
made from an IP address hed used for genuine log ins. The device associated with his 
mobile phone number and registered to the account since it had been opened was used for 
the payments. The correct security details had been entered to make payments. 
The payments took place over a period from 12:43pm on 31 December 2019 to 11:36am on 
1 January 2020. The first five of them were to an account that Barclays had established was 
a genuine one in his name at another financial business. Although Mr A had indicated the 
money had been moved on from there, we could only look in this complaint at what Barclays 
had done. The other payments had gone to different financial businesses and all the money 
had been moved on by the time Mr A reported fraud. As she thought Mr A had authorised 
the payments it was not relevant to think about whether Barclays ought to have identified 
them as suspicious and made checks.
Mr A didnt agree. He maintained that Barclays should have contacted him, and he had 
trusted it to protect his money. It failed to alert him to find out whether it was him or someone 
else making the payments. He was unhappy that Barclays had accused him of leaking his 
details when these had been unusual payments made within a few hours. Mr A said he was 
considering taking legal advice about how best to get his money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here but Im thinking about what is most likely 
taking into account what Mr A has said. I think hes had a full opportunity to give his 
explanation of events.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN or other security information. 
And if they werent authorised Mr A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about whether Mr A either authorised the payments on the account or 
allowed someone else to make the payments as Barclays thinks might have happened.
Im satisfied based on the available evidence that these payments were authenticated. I 
agree with what our investigators said about the security details that were captured at the 
time and that the payments were made with Mr As device.
Mr A at one point said he thought his device had been hacked. I dont see any evidence of 
that. Apart from saying he didnt make the payments he hasnt put forward a credible 
explanation of how these payments came to be made from an IP address and device hed 
used before. And how for example his fingerprint was used several times over a nearly 24-
hour period to access the app. 
Hed sent a genuine payment before to his account at the other financial business and where 
the first five of these disputed ones were sent. And it seems odd to me that a fraudster able 
to later send money to different accounts would choose to send over half of the money to an 
account of Mr A. Id also expect a fraudster to move as much money as quickly as possible 
and there were no attempts for some 12 hours to do so - and when the payments stopped 
there was still over £500 in Mr As account.
Frankly, Im struggling to see how anyone other than Mr A or someone hed allowed freely to 
use his account through the mobile app could have made these payments. I find the 
evidence of that compelling and so I have no basis to find that he didnt consent to and so 
authorise the payments.
Given that finding I cant see how Barclays contacting him to ask him about these payments 
would have affected the outcome here. So, I dont need to consider that further.
I know Mr A is going to be disappointed by my decision. He remains free to pursue this 
matter in court if he doesnt accept my decision as he has indicated he might subject to any 
time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman