DRN-4015942
The complaint
Mr N complains that a used car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
wishes to reject the car and cancel the agreement.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr N acquired a used car via a 60-month conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers. The car was around seven and half years old and had a mileage of about 
124,000.
Mr N says that about one month after acquiring the car a warning light illuminated on the 
dashboard saying low oil pressure and so he sent the car for an oil service. Mr N says that 
this, at first, appeared to have solved the issue but the warning light reappeared and so he 
got the car serviced.
However, within a short time the warning light again illuminated on the dashboard and Mr N 
contacted the supplying dealer. Mr N says he was advised by the dealership that it could be 
a fault with the sensor. Mr N took the car to a local garage and paid for a new sensor to be 
fitted, but after this repair the engine management light illuminated. Mr N then arranged for 
the car to go back to the supplying dealer for them to investigate in May/June 2022. 
Mr N says the car continued to have an intermittent issue with losing power and then 
breaking down which required him to call out roadside assistance.
The supplying dealer inspected the car but told Mr N they couldnt find a fault and the car 
was returned to him. But Mr N says the issues with the car remained and he was advised to 
replace the battery by the roadside assistance company. He says he followed this advice, 
but the problems with the cars performance persisted.
Mr N was then advised by his local garage that there could be an issue with the starter motor 
and so in August 2022 Mr N had a new one fitted. The car then broke down three weeks 
later and Mr N says he hasnt been able to use it since.
Mr N complained to Close Brothers and said he wanted to now reject the car. Close Brothers 
said that as Mr N had raised faults with the car after more than six months had passed since 
hed acquired it, he would need to provide evidence that the current faults were either 
present or developing at the point of supply. Without this evidence, Close Brothers said, it 
couldnt uphold his complaint.
Mr N disagreed with the view of Close Brothers and complained to this service. He provided 
a number of photos of the condition of the engine and of the warning lights that had been 
illuminating on the dash. He also provided copies of the repair invoices for the work hed had 
carried out on the car.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. She said that 
although the car wasnt new and would be reasonably expected to have suffered some wear 
and tear to its parts, she was satisfied, on the evidence, that the car had a fault at the point 
of supply. Our investigator said the photos showed signs of severe oil solidification and she 
believed it was this that had led to the problems Mr N had described with the engine.
Our investigator said looking at the information contained in the logbook as to the car being 
serviced prior to Mr N acquiring it, it was clear these hadnt been carried out in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations. She said the services had either been late or missed and 
the oil solidification would be consistent with poor servicing and maintenance.
It would therefore be fair, said our investigator, for Mr N to be able to return the car and 
cancel the agreement with nothing to pay from September 2022 being the point at which Mr 
N could no longer use the car. She also said Mr N should be reimbursed his deposit; 20% of 
the monthly payments paid up to September 2022 due to the poor performance of the car; 
the repair costs hed paid and the road tax and insurance from September 2022. Finally, she 
said that Close Brothers should pay £150 compensation to Mr N for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by dealing with the faulty car. 
Mr N agreed with the view of our investigator, but Close Brothers disagreed. Although Close 
Brothers said it agreed there was some evidence of oil solidification, it said there wasnt any 
evidence as to what the current issue actually was with the car. Close Brothers said that it 
wasnt confirmed that the level of solidification found with the oil had caused the breakdowns 
rather than another issue with the car. It said there were no accompanying reports or 
statements from the garage that had dealt with the car setting out what was the suspected 
cause of the breakdowns.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
evidence is missing or contradictory then I must decide what I think is the most likely thing 
to have happened.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr N is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being over seven years old and with a mileage of around 124,000. I think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have 
expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair since components of the car 
would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there 
wouldnt be expectation that the car was fault free.
Mr N says that he first had an issue with the car after around one month and this resulted 
in the car having a new oil filter fitted and an oil service. However, this didnt fix the car 
which repeatedly suffered from the same issues of a warning light being illuminated and 
the cars power being affected leading to breakdowns. A number of repairs have been 
attempted in an effort to fix the issue with the car, these have included a new oil pressure 
switch fitted in April 2022, a new oil filter and starter motor fitted in August 2022 and a new 
battery. From September 2022 the car has not been useable, and the latest quote 
provided by Mr N indicates the car may require a new engine.
While I appreciate there is no actual report from a garage setting out what had been found 
nor what was the cause of the fault, I think the photos of the engine, together with the 
service history, Mr Ns description of the issues he has experienced while using the car 
and the various attempted repairs are sufficient for me to be able to reasonably say that 
there is fault with the car, and that the fault is more likely than not due to the condition of 
the oil. Im aware that oil in the condition shown in Mr Ns cars engine will have had a 
significant impact on its parts and running. 
I also think that looking at the chronology of the faults and the other evidence that its 
reasonable to conclude that its more likely than not the issue with the cars oil was either 
present or developing at its point of supply to Mr N. So, even though, due to the age and 
use of the car, there wasnt an expectation for it to be fault free, I dont think the condition 
of the oil would meet the standard that would be reasonably expected, particularly as it 
appears to be due to poor maintenance in the past. Im satisfied the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when Mr N acquired it.
Close Brothers has raised that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the supplying dealer 
should be provided with an opportunity to repair the car before its rejected by the 
consumer. But Ive seen that the dealership took the car back for a period and Mr N says 
they said they could find nothing wrong with it. Ive also seen Mr N raised the problems he 
was having with the dealership on a number of occasions, but no action appears to have 
been taken. In light of this and the length of time Mr N has been struggling with the faulty 
car I think its fair to say the supplying dealer has already had the opportunity to repair and 
has failed to do so. I therefore think its reasonable for Mr N to reject the car and for the 
credit agreement to be ended.
Ive seen that Mr N was able to make use of the car between the time he acquired it and 
September 2022 when it broke down and that it hasnt been used since. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr N not to seek to use the car further or carry out further investigations 
and repairs from this point. I agree with Mr N that it had become clear there was a serious 
issue with the car. So, I dont think its fair for Mr N to pay the monthly contractual 
payments from September 2022. However, I also accept that in the period he was able to 
use the car it wouldnt have performed as he would have reasonably expected. I agree 
with our investigators view that he should be reimbursed 20% of the payments made 
between December 2021 and September 2022 to reflect that.
I also dont think Mr N should have paid for the car insurance and road tax from 
September 2022 onwards as he wasnt able to use the car from that point. These 
expenses should be reimbursed by Close Brothers.
In an attempt to fix the car Mr N has arranged and paid for a number of repairs and replacement parts. While Ive seen that Mr N didnt seek Close Brothers authorisation 
before doing so, I dont think his actions were unreasonable. He was hoping that the issue 
with the car was only a minor one but as time went on it became clear the issue with the 
car was significant. I think he was only trying to keep the car on the road, and he doesnt 
appear to have received much support from the supplying dealer during this time. I 
therefore think that its fair for Close Brothers to reimburse Mr N the costs of the various 
repairs he had carried out.
Ive seen Mr N was caused inconvenience and distress dealing with the faulty car. He has 
had to call out roadside assistance and take the car to the garage on several occasions 
trying to ascertain what the fault was. I therefore think that £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable when considering the impact this has had on him.
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Close Brothers to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to the customer.
Refund Mr Ns deposit/part exchange contribution of £500.
Reimburse Mr N all the monthly payments made under the agreement from 
September 2022 to the date of settlement as Mr N had stopped using the car.
Reimburse Mr N 20% of the monthly payments made between December 2021 and 
September 2022 to cover any loss of use or impaired use of the car because of the 
inherent quality issues.
Refund Mr N £1,625 for the additional expenses which have been incurred as a 
result of the inherent quality issues with the car. This amount is made up from £515 
for car insurance and road tax, £983.81 for reasonable repair costs and £126.47 
battery change cost.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr N £150 as compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been 
caused due to the faulty goods.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file in relation to this agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Im asking Close Brothers 
Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to the customer.
Refund Mr Ns deposit/part exchange contribution of £500.Reimburse Mr N all the monthly payments made under the agreement from 
September 2022 to the date of settlement as Mr N had stopped using the car.
Reimburse Mr N 20% of the monthly payments made between December 2021 and 
September 2022 to cover any loss of use or impaired use of the car because of the 
inherent quality issues.
Refund Mr N £1,625 for the additional expenses which have been incurred as a 
result of the inherent quality issues with the car. This amount is made up from £515 
for car insurance and road tax, £983.81 for reasonable repair costs and £126.47 
battery change cost.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr N £150 as compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been 
caused due to the faulty goods.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file in relation to this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman