DRN-3011554
The complaint
Mr M says Cartlidge Morland Limited (CML) didnt give him complete or suitable advice 
about accessing benefits from his personal pension plan with Royal London, and then 
failed to make arrangements for the investment of these funds into his Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) as agreed. He says its actions have caused him financial detriment and 
considerable trouble in trying to get things put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M decided to follow their long-standing financial adviser when he changed firms 
and moved to CML. The agreement was signed in June 2018. And in November 2018 they 
received a report which set out recommendations for how their pension and investment 
portfolios could be managed and where their funds should be placed.
The report identified Mr and Mrs Ms objective for their portfolio as capital growth. And 
their attitude to taking risk was assessed as cautious/balanced. The report set out the fee 
CML would charge for its investment management service, which was 1% of the value of 
the funds in the portfolio. Ive not seen anything which indicates matters related to this 
report were contested at the time.
Mr M had been a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) between 1989 and 
1992. His benefits had been transferred into what is called a Section 32 Buy-out plan 
(essentially a personal pension, often with special features), this was with Royal London. 
His plan, which had a fund value of around £22,300 and a normal retirement age of 65, 
was outside the scope of the November 2018 report.
Mr M says that between November 2018 and March 2019 his adviser provided unsolicited 
advice about closing his Royal London plan and investing the funds in his ISA. Mr M 
assented to the proposal. I can see he was sent a quote in January 2019 setting out the 
transfer value and by May 2019 the funds were in his current account.
In early May 2019 Mr M and his adviser exchanged emails about how, when and where to 
transfer his Royal London funds. A separate transaction in relation to his wifes investment 
provisions is also mentioned in some of these communications.
There was a meeting between the parties on 23 May 2019, where it appears different 
options for what to do with Mr Ms pension funds were discussed. And on 17 June 2019 Mr 
M asked his adviser when he would receive proposals for a new income fund  he said 
(bolding is my emphasis):
I'm a bit anxious having cashed in the Royal London pension and would like to place 
these funds either in an ISA, or in a new plan as suggested (and with details to 
follow), what I'm not keen to do is to leave it in a low to no interest current account and 
doing very little.
CMLs adviser responded to Mr M saying he was watching developments on Brexit 
but would get a proposal to him in the next two days. This was delivered on 19 June 
2019, concluding with the following paragraphs:
[Mr M], there is a lot we can do and with the right strategy you have more than enough 
scope to design a plan to give you both a comfortable income in retirement. If you were 
merely to top up a plan I would see this as a non-strategic transaction. However, I 
really think that a highly strategic plan needs to be diagnosed recommended 
implemented and regularly reviewed, and for that type of report I would charge a fee of 
750.
CMLs communication wasnt well received by Mr M. The following extracts from his letter 
to his adviser of 21 June 2019 sum up his concerns at that point (bolding is my emphasis):
I have set out our discussions since late 2018, in attending these meetings I believe we 
had reasonable expectations to receive from you material advice much sooner and 
expressed in more specific terms. Considering the deposit accounts and reallocation 
of the pay out from Royal London any further advice should be provided with 
reference to our established attitude to risk and covered under existing charges. In 
future, should we discuss the provision of plans, it must be made absolutely clear at the 
outset if this will incur additional charges
We very much appreciate your efforts to grow the value of our investments and 
retirement planning over time and this was an important reason we followed you to [CML] 
Having said that, we found your email of 19 June 2019 to be confusing, inconsistent and 
in places contradictoryCrucially, your email is only specific in requesting an additional 
feethis despite discussions spanning many months. This raises concerns for both of 
us, particularly (a) the ability to really focus on what we have asked for, (b) clarity 
and accuracy in all communication with us and (c) the application of attention to 
follow through to full delivery and to do so in a timely fashion.
Mr M went on:
Whilst I appreciate you will not charge to make a non-strategic transaction (i.e. 
paying the funds from the Royal London plan to my 2019-20 ISA allowance), the 
justification for requesting a further payment of £750 to provide a report (presumably giving 
the reasons to open another portfolio at [CML]) is neither understood nor accepted.
As well as raising concerns, which appear to have been sparked by CMLs request for a 
fee to develop a strategic plan for how to effectively utilise Mr and Mrs Ms cash assets, its 
at this point the waters begin to be muddied with regards Mr Ms attitude to risk. For 
example, he says (bolding is my emphasis):
For as long as you have known us there can be no question that we are averse to risk 
and are very uncomfortable with the prospect of absorbing losses. This profile is 
amplified by our age and as we approach retirement. You have categorised our 
outlook using financial language as 'cautious balanced' but, in plain English, no risk and 
aversion to loss is unambiguous and has been consistent for many years now.
I note, with regard to Mr Ms risk appetite, this appeared in contradiction to what hed 
identified as his expectations earlier in his letter about the Royal London proceeds being 
invested in line with his established attitude to risk. And his stated requirement for the 
funds not to be left in a no/low interest account.
CMLs adviser responded in terms that suggest hed misunderstood Mr Ms 
requirements. Matters escalated further when Mr M wrote to CML on 26 June seeking a 
review of the advice hed received about the closure of his Royal London pension plan.Over the course of the following weeks there were lengthy and detailed exchanges 
between Mr M and CML. While Ive no reason to believe anything other than that both 
parties were acting in good faith, ultimately no agreement could be reached about what 
had happened, the impact this had, and how things should be put right. Positions became 
entrenched.
Mr M terminated his arrangement with CML in September 2019. He appointed a 
new adviser. And he brought his complaint about what had happened to this 
Service.
Mr M maintains CML didnt give him complete or suitable advice about the closure of his 
Royal London pension plan. And that it then failed to make arrangements for the 
investment of the funds he received from it into his ISA. He says its actions have caused 
him financial detriment and considerable trouble in trying to get things put right.
CML acknowledged its failings, for example the recommendation to close his pension plan 
had been verbal  there was no fact-find or suitability report. It also accepted the adviser 
had been too slow in arranging the reinvestment of the funds from his plan into his ISA. 
However, it says the advice to close the Royal London plan had been in Mr Ms best 
interest. And the delay in reinvestment had been caused by uncertainty around Mr Ms risk 
outlook.
I issued my provisional decision last month. Both parties responded with detailed 
submissions. Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said and where I havent 
already covered those matters raised, and if they are material to my conclusions, Ive 
responded to points raised in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the testimony Ive been provided with is contradictory. Where theres conflicting 
information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the 
evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most likely to 
have happened.
The accounts of both parties are lengthy. Ive not provided a detailed response to all the 
points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes 
between financial businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account and 
considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and 
at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by CML for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 
G). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs 
of its clients and communicate in a way which is clear fair and not misleading.
So, the Principles are fundamental and form part of the regulatory framework that existed 
at the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like CML. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Of course, there are also obligations on customers as a party in a contract to act reasonably 
in their dealings with firms. And I also take such matters into account.
Taking a step back, Ive tried to piece together what we know about Mr Ms circumstances 
and objectives in terms of his retirement plans. The following extracts from his letter to 
CML on 21 June 2019 seem to me informative:
I have stressed that we need to move from being investors to collecting value from our 
pensions and investments. At each meeting since December 2018 I have explained that If 
I do not find employment by the latter part of 2019, then we would need to be ready to 
draw on (some of) our investments early.
At our last meeting on 23 May I said that I wanted to supplement our 3K pcm income 
[my wifes salary] by using our cash holdings more efficiently. However, in your email of 19 
June you state that with 3K pcm there is no need for extra income (or for drawing on our 
funds) - surely this is our decision to make...We do not agree with your conclusion.
Since we joined [CML] I have raised the question of our cash holdings at every meeting 
and, specifically, how these accounts need to do better than the current meagre interest 
rate returns. This is not new business. We talked about our cash reserves in detail on 3 
December 2018 and again on 12 December when I confirmed the total funds 
deposited
On 12 December 2018 we agreed to look at a package (a reallocation of cash assets) built 
on an initial sum of around 100K drawn from the funds noted above. You said you would 
come back to me with some plans on how this might be structured. There was no mention 
of an additional fee for providing this advice.
Id make an observation about these extracts, which isnt untypical of what Ive seen more 
generally in Mr Ms communications. Some of his needs and wants appear conflicted. For 
example, his suggestion that he needed to start taking value from his pension and 
investments versus his desire to make his cash funds work harder. Ive already alighted 
on statements in the same letter about his attitude to risk which again might appear to be 
at odds.
I draw these matters out not to be critical of Mr M, he was in an uncertain position 
regarding his employment, approaching retirement age and anxious to understand what 
he should be doing with his pension and investment portfolio. I do so to illustrate that he 
wasnt an expert and thats why he sought the services of CML. I think he needed clear 
advice to help him work through his circumstances, his needs and wants, and to review his 
risk appetite.Ive already mentioned the problem with the approach CMLs adviser adopted with Mr M 
following delivery of the November 2018 report focussed on his and his wifes pension 
and investment portfolio. That report set out the fees for its ongoing investment 
management of their portfolio. But it didnt cover their cash assets, nor Mr Ms Royal 
London plan.
From December 2018 CMLs adviser appears to have been providing Mr M with free 
advice. I dont know why this happened. Beyond being helpful, perhaps he was trying to 
keep Mr M and his wife happy due to the conditional nature of the agreement hed struck 
with them as he moved firms and theyd followed.
It wouldve been far better for all concerned had CMLs adviser been clear about the cost 
of providing advice beyond the scope of the agreed ongoing investment management 
service. In my experience such charges arent unusual. I dont think its reasonable for Mr 
M to have expected free advice, the work and expertise required for matters such as 
retirement planning is significant. But his expectations clearly werent managed.
CML provided Mr M with free advice to close his Royal London pension. And theres 
no dispute between the parties that there were failings in its process here. For 
example, in its first response to Mr Ms request for a review of the advice he received, 
a partner at the firm confirmed (bolding is my emphasis):
Firstly, let me assure you that it is a fundamental requirement here that ALL 
advice is provided in writing, BEFORE any is implementedCertainly, the 
reasoning for the transaction concerned should have been provided to you in 
writing.
As the adviser didnt provide Mr M with such written advice, CML acknowledges what in its 
own terms was a fundamental failing. It later confirmed to this Service:
[Our adviser reported that] he volunteered the recommendation to surrender verbally  
but told [Mr M] that if he had to write him a detailed explanation he would need to charge 
him c £1500 + VAT. It was for this reason he advised Mr M to talk to Royal London if in 
doubt. (Our procedures always require that advice is given in writing  but I empathise 
with situations in which the practical course is obvious and the potential fee 
disproportionate to the sum in question. I do not agree with the approach [our adviser] 
adopted, precisely for the reason complaints so easily arise from such informal 
practices).
Mr M disputes that the adviser ever told him about the potential fee should he require the 
advice to close his plan in writing. He also disputes that he had any direct dealings with 
Royal London, aside from receiving a valuation for his policy. 
Although CML has subsequently set out the reasons for the advisers recommendation, 
this wasnt recorded at the time. There wasnt an updated fact-find or attitude to risk 
assessment. And no suitability report was produced. So, theres little contemporaneous 
information about the advantages and disadvantages of taking benefits from his Royal 
London plan.
In explaining what happened, CML told this Service Mr M had become associated with its 
adviser in 2005, many years before he joined the firm. It said had its adviser been 
motivated to recommend an inappropriate transfer of the benefits from his Royal London 
policy, he had ample opportunity to have done so over many years.CML says the adviser had consistently advised Mr M against such a move for two 
reasons. Firstly, the policy had been subject to a transfer penalty. And his Section 32 plan 
benefitted from a protected tax-free cash (TFC) provision, which meant hed be able to 
draw substantially more than the standard 25% of funds without paying tax. Any transfer 
to another plan would mean he lost this valuable protection.
At the point Mr M became a client of CML its adviser again considered the question of 
whether he should either surrender the Royal London policy or transfer the benefits 
elsewhere. It said his portfolio of investment funds held at Aviva had consistently produced 
superior returns. So, if the downsides could be overcome, there was a logic to 
consolidation and management of the funds with his other assets. It said this would have 
assisted with the implementation of whatever pension income strategy he chose to adopt.
CML says that by the Autumn 2018 Mr M was entitled to over 70% of the surrender value 
of his Royal London plan as TFC. A transfer into a personal pension wouldve resulted in 
the tax-free percentage reducing to 25%. But while a transfer into a different personal 
pension policy wouldve been inadvisable, accessing his benefits largely free of tax was a 
real option.
CML set out the complex arrangements for working out Mr Ms TFC entitlement from his 
Royal London plan. Part of the formula was linked to the Lifetime Allowance (LTA). And 
it noted how Government policy on the LTA from April 2018 - which indicated future 
annual uprating in line with inflation - effectively meant the proportion of his plan that he 
could take tax-free would erode over time.
Given the position CML identified with Mr Ms protected TFC and the fact that he could 
now close his policy with a relatively small early surrender penalty of just over £200, the 
adviser believed the time was right to recommend he close his Royal London plan. CML 
said:
We do not regard this as an execution only transaction in any sense. It is not denied (and 
never has been) that [CML] pro-actively advised [Mr M] to surrender his Royal London 
policy. What is denied is that there was ever ANY disadvantage to him in doing so  
beyond the 1% exit penalty of which he was aware  and which was materially out-
weighed by the certain ongoing reduction in his tax-free cash entitlements from the policy. 
Re- investment in an ISA ensured future income/capital free from personal taxation too.
While CMLs adviser mayve been trying to be helpful to Mr M in terms of managing the 
costs he might face for advice provided by taking an informal approach, as 
acknowledged, this can lead to exactly the sort of misunderstanding and dispute that 
later arose.
Leaving aside these failings, Ive thought about whether the advice itself, to close the 
Royal London pension plan, was sound. In its response to my provisional decision CML 
said:
In advising the surrender of the policy any competent financial adviser would have 
determined the following:
-Costs/loss of benefit in surrender.
-The immediate and future taxation consequences.
-The value of any guaranteed future investment returns.
-The extent of the prospect of improving the likely returns from the underlying 
sum/value invested with/without materially increasing underlying risks.-The likely net result for the investor after balancing any costs/loss of policy benefits 
against potential investment returns elsewhere and the effect of any improvement 
in taxation treatment or otherwise.
I think this is a sensible list of considerations. And after the event of the closure of Mr Ms 
Royal London plan, CML has tried to make the case in all these areas and justify its 
advisers recommendation. The fundamental problem it has of course is that such detailed 
advice was absent when the policy was closed.
I dont think CML can now reasonably assert Mr M suffered no disadvantage and that the 
surrender penalty was materially outweighed by the certain erosion of his TFC benefits 
had he remained in his Royal London plan. I say this because it still hasnt been able to 
demonstrate a compelling case with data and analysis.
A key plank of CMLs rationale for the closure of Mr Ms pension plan was that the TFC 
formula applied to it wouldve eroded his benefits over time. But I still find its argument 
weak at best - it hasnt provided analysis to show how changes foreseen to the LTA 
wouldve had a material impact on the TFC that wouldve been available to him had he left 
his plan in place until he was 65 or later.
Im grateful for the analysis CML has now provided on this matter. It says this illustrates 
that by 2023/24, had Government policy remained to uprate the LTA allowance in line with 
inflation, Mr M wouldve been better off by around £200 had he moved his Royal London 
funds into an ISA. These gains are tiny. And almost exactly offset by the early exit penalty 
he incurred. Further, its analysis shows that by 2023/24 Mr M couldve received £600 
more in TFC had his funds remained with Royal London.
Of course, had Mr M been looking to generate some liquidity and to take value from his 
pensions and investments, accessing his Royal London plan benefits couldve been a 
good option given the TFC he could secure from it. But because we dont have a 
suitability report we dont have a settled understanding of Mr Ms retirement plans at the 
time of the advice complained about. 
It seems he was still looking for employment in the summer of 2019. We dont know what 
the household income requirements were in the near and medium term  on this matter 
theres a recorded difference between the adviser and Mr M. Mr M and his wife appear to 
have had substantial available cash assets of over £100,000. We dont know what options 
he wouldve considered if hed needed to have supplemented his income. And so on.
It seems when discussions were initiated about the Royal London plan, consideration of 
using Mr Ms ISA allowance for 2018/19 had been a possibility. But it materialised that 
hed used his contribution allowance for that year. And given the available cash assets he 
and his wife had, presumably a good option for these funds wouldve been to utilise their 
ISA allowances for the next few years. 
So, its not clear to me CML had a robust plan about what to do with the additional cash 
being accessed from Mr Ms Royal London plan. And this necessarily undermines some of 
the arguments it makes about these funds enjoying the tax efficient treatment provided by 
an ISA.CML has noted the poor returns produced by Mr Ms Royal London plan when compared 
to his other pension and investment vehicles. Even if this was the case, Ive no evidence 
to show CML considered how utilising more of the funds available to Mr M within his Royal 
London plan mightve provided a better return, while remaining in line with his established 
risk appetite, negating the need to close his plan. 
In responding to my provisional decision CML said that as Mr Ms Royal London plan was a 
conventional with profits policy dating back to 1989, there was no option to switch into 
alternative funds. The Royal London pack it shared with us suggests otherwise. For 
example, in the section Investment Information & Charges the pack says of Mr Ms policy:
The funds in which the policy are invested are detailed on the attached Transfer Package. 
Under this type of contract there is a facility to switch investment free of charge...A maximum 
of 13 funds can be invested in at any one time for [Mr Ms plan]
The movement of funds from Mr Ms Royal London plan into his ISA would presumably have 
generated more fees for CML. Clearly this wasnt made explicit because there is no 
suitability report. And I have still yet to see an analysis of the fees and charges Mr M was 
exposed to under his Royal London plan compared with what was proposed under the new 
arrangement.
When considering the transaction performed by CML its important to consider Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time. Why was he interested in closing his plan? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable or warranted? Should the adviser have put him at ease instead of 
facilitating the closure of his Royal London plan? And Id expect there to have been a 
reasonable potential for Mr M to be better off to make the advice suitable.
The reason for closing the Royal London plan had to be soundly based. Mr Ms potential to 
be better off had to be enough to more than compensate for the risk that he might end up 
worse off. And as a consumer with a cautious/balanced attitude to risk, he wouldve needed 
to have a greater potential for gain (without taking more investment risk) than a consumer 
with a high attitude to risk.
Overall, CML hasnt done enough to satisfy me that its advice for Mr M to close his Royal 
London plan was suitable. From the analysis Ive seen, most of which comes from after the 
event, I think the recommendation was at best marginal. I think its more likely than not had it 
followed proper process it wouldve arrived at a different conclusion, advising against closure 
of the plan at that time. And I think Mr M wouldve followed the advice of his financial 
adviser.
Turning to the matter of what happened to the funds from Mr Ms Royal London pension 
after hed closed it. I understand he was in receipt of these at the end of March 2019. It's 
not in dispute that Mr M provided CML with the proceeds from the Royal London plan in 
May 2019 for it to invest these in his ISA.
However, I can see matters had become more complicated as further informal advice had 
been provided about different options available and entwined with the approach to be 
taken with the cash assets he and his wife had. I also recognise some of Mr Ms 
communications raised concerns with CML about what his appetite for risk was. 
CML later told this Service (bolding is my emphasis):Against this uncertain background relating to [Mr Ms] actual attitude to investment risk [our 
adviser] did not consider (rightly in my view) that he could advise [Mr M] as to where to 
invest his money. It was for that reason no advice was provided relating to investment funds, 
but I did not see why [our adviser] could not have arranged for the [Royal London 
funds] or even £20000 per spouse to be paid into [Mr and Mrs Ms] ISAs for all the 
resulting interest would have been absolutely minimal. Equally, I can see why [our adviser] 
felt he should firstly resolve the question of attitude to risk  and then have our investment 
managers provide formal investment recommendations in their impending and regular 
reporting.
In response to my provisional decision CML said (bolding is my emphasis):
I have previously accepted (and still do) that [our adviser] should have written to [Mr 
M] after that May 2019 meeting with reassurances of the type [Mr M] evidently 
required concerning his overall financial position. With the reassurance that his capital 
could indeed generate adequate income/provide sufficient long-term financial 
security, [Mr M] would have been likely to have been more reasonable when 
discussing investment risk. I would then have expected [our adviser] to have determined 
afresh whether a cash or equity ISA would have been most suitable and to have provided re-
investment recommendations.
This reinforces my view that agreement between Mr M and CML about what to do with his 
Royal London funds was always within reach.
Mr M has told us that after leaving CML in September 2019 he appointed a new financial 
adviser. He said:
the new adviser made a number of recommendations dated 08 October 2019, including: 
(1) Your existing portfolio is broadly in line with your attitude to investment risk and 
objectives(2) I am recommending that you both fully utilise your ISA allowances by 
topping up your Aviva ISAs. The funds I used were from the Royal London pension plan. 
We met with the adviser on 30 October 2019 and a cheque for the funds to be reinvested 
was submitted.
CML has acknowledged delays in the reinvestment of Mr Ms Royal London plan funds, 
which it appears to accept some responsibility for. It told us:
I have already expressed my firms willingness to compensate [Mr M] with a payment 
equivalent to a competitive rate of bank interest  covering the period from which he 
received the surrender proceeds of his Royal London policy to 5 July 2019, by which time he 
could reasonably have acted upon the written re-investment recommendations provided to 
him by me.
CML says in responding positively to Mr Ms complaint, it tried to put his mind at rest. And 
it gave him some investment recommendations. So, while it thought some redress for the 
delay in effecting reinvestment was appropriate, it didnt think it was reasonable for me not 
to have drawn a line under his position until the end of October 2019, after hed moved 
advising firm and his investments had been made. CML said Mr M had a responsibility to 
mitigate his losses.
Ive thought carefully about CMLs arguments, which are not without merit. I do think the 
matter of the cause of the delay of the reinvestment of Mr Ms Royal London plan funds is 
finely balanced. The problem for CML is threefold:- It acknowledges its adviser couldve acted to reassure Mr M with regards to his risk 
appetite. And that when he submitted his plan funds in May 2019 it couldve 
arranged for these to have been paid into his ISA. I think it shouldve done these 
things. By not doing so matters became more intractable.
- Although it did set out the case for the closure of Mr Ms Royal London plan after 
the event, as well as identifying reinvestment proposals, by this time Mr M was 
raising the suitability of the original recommendation as an issue. He doesnt 
appear to have been satisfied with what he was being told about these matters.
- On 31 July 2019 Mr M wrote to it again. He set out the remedy he sought, an 
extract of which follows:
I understand it is impractical to complete my first choice for resolution and to re-
instate the Royal London pension plan as before. However, I can see no reason 
why, as a practical compromise solution, you cannot (a) complete the reinvestment 
of funds from Royal London into an appropriate area within my AVIVA ISA as 
promised by [your adviser] in numerous meetings at your premises
A stand-off of sorts between Mr M and CML developed as to which party should initiate 
the investment of the Royal London funds into whichever investment vehicle was 
deemed appropriate. CML was the expert party, it was providing advice and it was in the 
driving seat  so I place the onus on it to have resolved the situation in line with the 
informal advice it had given, rather than leaving matters hanging.
Of course, the issue of what shouldve happened with Mr Ms Royal London funds 
becomes somewhat academic given that Ive concluded he shouldve been advised to 
remain with his existing plan.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close as 
reasonably possible to the position he would probably now be in if hed not been given 
unsuitable advice. My proposed approach isnt scientific and there are arguments that 
could be made by both parties about why certain elements of it arent as right as they 
could be. But there are different assumptions that could be reasonably applied to many of 
the matters I need to consider.
Of course, its not possible to deliver a perfect resolution. But Ive tried to arrive at a 
pragmatic and simplified outcome which is fair and reasonable to both parties given 
the information available to me.
I take the view that Mr M wouldve remained in his Royal London plan. I think its more 
likely than not hed have done so until he reached at least the age of 65. Given the to and 
fro between CML and Mr M about his appetite for risk and matters relating to what fees 
were acceptable to Mr M, Ive assumed no fund changes wouldve been made.
That said, there are other significant uncertainties which I have to consider. Even the 
things that seemed reasonably firm in 2019, such as the trajectory for the LTA, have 
changed as the Government has frozen the allowance and we cant now be sure how that 
policy area will develop. This is a matter of hindsight of course, but it demonstrates well the 
difficulty of redress here. Neither do we have perfect foresight - we cant know how the 
Royal London plan will perform over the coming period compared to where Mr Ms plan 
funds are currently invested.Ive also considered the tax Mr M paid on closure of his pension plan  I understand this 
was around £1,300 (20% of the residual payment after allowance for his TFC equating to 
70% of the pot). I dont know whether he was able to reclaim some or all of this tax 
charge, this will have depended on his income situation more broadly for the tax year, 
about which I have little information.
Nevertheless, whenever he took his pension benefits these wouldve been subject to 
assessment for income tax. As Ive set out, the TFC element being influenced by LTA. 
And then the remainder of his funds subject to his effective rate of tax at the time. Like the 
investigator, Im making a simplifying assumption that all tax matters over the period of 
time are neutral - and so I have not provided for any adjustment here.
In responding to my provisional decision Mr M asked me to take into account the £240 
cost he incurred to obtain specialist tax advice to ensure his return to HMRC in 
relation to the proceeds from his Royal London plan was correct. Im not persuaded 
by his request for a number of reasons, including that if he felt the need to obtain such 
advice its more likely than not hed have done so whenever he accessed the funds.
Finally, Ive taken the view that matters of future loss or gain - beyond when Mr M put 
new financial advice arrangements in place and when changes to his portfolio were 
executed on 30 October 2019 - are too uncertain to discern.
There are potential upsides and downsides to both parties from the assumptions Ive 
made. But I believe overall these to bear fairly on each.
So, to compensate Mr M fairly, Cartlidge Morland Limited must now:
- Obtain the notional (fair) fund value of Mr Ms Royal London pension plan had it 
remained invested in the same funds until 30 October 2019. And then compare this 
with the actual value of the funds released from his plan after being held in his 
current account at the same date (Mr M to provide appropriate evidence).
- Pay the resulting difference between the fair value and the actual value of his 
funds, over the relevant period. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation in this regard is payable.
- Add to this, by making good the exit penalty (I understand around £220) which 
was incurred for early closure of the plan.
- CML will be able to make a reduction to the sum of these payments to allow for the 
notional income tax that wouldve been due, allowing for Mr Ms TFC provision. So, it 
should use the same effective rate of tax paid by Mr M, which at the point of 
transaction was 6%. If he provides evidence that he secured a tax rebate on the 
charge then it will need to make any necessary adjustment to this assumption.
- To any sum due to Mr M, CML will need to pay 8% simple per year on any loss from 
1 November 2019 until the date of settlement. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest. If required by HMRC to make a deduction, it should tell Mr M how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
- Provide clear workings to show how it has calculated the payment due.
Finally, Cartlidge Morland Limited has accepted that its adviser got some important things 
wrong in the advice process. These failings drive my findings and conclusions. Mr M has 
made clear the frustration and anxiety caused by these events. In recognition of these 
problems it should pay Mr M £250 for trouble and upset it has caused him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and I require Cartlidge 
Morland Limited to pay the redress Ive detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman