DRN-3412915
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to properly consider her situation when she had 
funds taken from her account that she didnt authorise.
What happened
Ms Gs purse was lost whilst out shopping and a number of withdrawals at an Automated 
Teller Machine (ATM) were made before she could cancel the card. 
When Ms G spoke to Lloyds about her loss, she was asked about the circumstances and 
whether her Personal Identification Number (PIN) was kept in her purse along with her card. 
Ms G didnt think she kept the PIN in her purse and Lloyds couldnt determine how someone 
knew Ms Gs PIN to be able to use the card.
Lloyds initially declined to refund Ms G because they couldnt identify how the card could 
have been used without the PIN. The circumstances of Ms Gs loss of her purse and card 
and the previous use of her credit card seemed to present no opportunity for the PIN to be 
revealed to a thief. Lloyds advised Ms G to report the matter to the police.
Ms G was left with the impression that her loss was being further looked into however after a 
few weeks, Ms G hadnt heard anything from Lloyds, so she contacted them about her loss. 
A complaint was lodged because Ms G was unhappy with how Lloyds had dealt with her and 
she felt like she was to blame for the loss of her own funds. During Ms Gs conversations 
with Lloyds  she was told shed receive a final response letter that would explain the 
situation. This was incorrect as Lloyds sent out a different type of complaint letter, although 
Ms G advised that she never received it.
Lloyds looked into the complaint and accepted that Ms G hadnt received good customer 
service when shed reported her loss. Lloyds offered Ms G £100 to recognise the poor 
service and an additional £13 for call costs.
The circumstances of the loss were again discussed and Ms G explained to Lloyds that her 
PIN may well have been in her purse  which could explain how someone was able to use 
her credit card to withdraw cash from an ATM. Ms G was also able to view some CCTV 
coverage of another person using her card.
Lloyds relooked into the loss and with this new information, they agreed to refund the funds 
taken from her account. Also, to take off any charges and interest that resulted from the 
disputed transactions. Lloyds thought that Ms G had also been given the wrong information 
about what she could expect when Lloyds initially wrote to her and offered a further £35 
payment.
Ms G was unhappy with how shed been treated and thought the payment for her distress 
wasnt sufficient, so she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an 
independent review. Ms Gs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who 
thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably when they refunded the lost funds. She also 
thought the total compensation offered to Ms G was appropriate and didnt uphold Ms Gs 
complaint.
Ms G disagreed and wanted a further review of her complaint. Ms G thought she should 
receive £300 for how shed been treated by Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The substantive issue of the disputed transactions has been resolved so I dont need to 
make a finding about that. Whats relevant though is how Lloyds acted when Ms G notified 
them of her loss. 
When Ms G reported the issue, she was asked about the circumstances to try and determine 
how someone could have used her card and PIN. Thats because the card on its own 
couldnt be used at an ATM to withdraw cash, so its important to understand how the PIN 
became known to the user (thief) of Ms Gs card. Generally, if it cant be determined how the 
PIN became known to the thief, then banks find it difficult to refund the losses. 
The initial answers Ms G gave to Lloyds questions led them to decline a refund and at that 
point, I think Lloyds response was reasonable because they couldnt identify how someone 
other than Ms G could have known the PIN to enable the card to be used. Ms G  was left 
feeling as though she was to blame for the loss.
Lloyds accepted theyd let Ms G down, both with the lack of clarity about what was 
happening to her case, the fact that Ms G thought a complaint had been lodged when it 
hadnt and generally having to contact Lloyds about the issue on several occasions. Ms G 
was also given misleading information about how her complaint would be answered. 
It's very clear from reading the correspondence that Ms G felt let down by Lloyds and Id 
agree with her assessment. Once Lloyds looked into the situation  they also agreed that Ms 
G had experienced poor customer service. Lloyds offered two compensation payments plus 
call costs. In total Lloyds have offered Ms G £135 for the poor customer service and £13 to 
cover call costs she had to make. I appreciate Ms G thought this was too little considering 
her experiences , but I think Lloyds offer was a reasonable one.
Lloyds made their first offer once they realised what had happened and a further payment 
when they reviewed the fraud claim after receiving new information. I dont underestimate 
the impact on Ms G, as she had to do quite a bit of running about contacting other people 
about the loss to assist her case, but I think its worth mentioning that the loss of her funds 
was the result of a thief and not Lloyds. 
I considered the length of time the issue remained outstanding and once Lloyds had taken 
the new information about the PIN from Ms G, they refunded the substantive loss straight 
away. Their offers of compensation werent delayed beyond any normal expectation, so I 
think Lloyds acted reasonably when they offered Ms G £135 plus £13 call costs and I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman