DRN-3661927
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Vitality Health Limited has unfairly declined her claim.
Mr S is representing Mrs S but for simplicity, all references to Mrs S include any submissions 
made on her behalf by Mr S.
What happened
Mrs S has a private medical insurance policy underwritten by Vitality. 
In 2021, she received treatment which was authorised by Vitality. 
Following the consultation and procedure, the consultant advised that Mrs S should have a 
further follow up in 12 months time. But Vitality said monitoring of a condition was excluded 
under the terms of the policy.
Mrs S said she was told by Vitality that all treatment would be covered in the initial 
authorisation call (which is no longer available), and this should include any check-ups 12 
months later. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Vitality had done anything wrong 
as it had fairly applied the exclusion. 
Mrs S disagreed and in summary, she said:
As the initial phone call is no longer available, we should find in her favour.
The exclusion only applies to regular monitoring and regular check-ups and not to the 
one check-up the consultant recommended. As it was just one check-up, it shouldnt 
be caught by the exclusion.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant industry rules and guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms say the following is not covered:
Any regular monitoring or ongoing treatment of chronic (long-term) medical 
conditions.
Treatment to maintain your state of health or to monitor your health on a regular 
basis.
Mrs S says Vitality provided assurances that she was fully covered in relation to the 
procedures she needed. And she renewed the insurance on this basis.
Vitality only keep call recordings for a limited time period and so the initial authorisation call 
is no longer available. Mrs S says that as Vitality destroyed this evidence, I should find in her 
favour. But in this scenario, I will look at the surrounding evidence and make a decision 
based on this. 
Evidence available 
Vitalitys system notes show new treatment was authorised on 7 December 2020 and 
the excess and outpatient limits were discussed.
A letter from Vitality dated 11 December 2020 confirms treatment approval for a 
diagnostic colonoscopy and the amount of sessions, tests or scans is confirmed as 
up to 1.
The consultants letter dated January 2021 says Mrs S underwent colonoscopy and 
polypectomy. He said she should undergo surveillance and I would suggest a further 
colonoscopy in one year.
Based on the above, Im not satisfied that a discussion about further check-ups would have 
taken place in the initial authorisation call. And even if it did, I think the letter from Vitality 
authorising the treatment is clear that only one colonoscopy is covered. 
So based on the above, Im not satisfied that Vitality unfairly refused to pay for the follow up 
colonoscopy. 
In addition, the consultant clearly advised that Mrs S should undergo surveillance which 
would be caught by the exclusions set out above. 
Im not satisfied that surveillance or the check-up were authorised by Vitality. And so I wont 
be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman