DRN-3748988
The complaint
Ms R complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) provided unsuitable advice to
transfer her personal pension to a SIPP, causing her a loss in pension benefits.
What happened
Ms R received advice, regarding her pension, from Portal in November 2013. She had a 
personal pension that had a fund value around £19,500 that was the subject of the advice. 
Ms R had a second pension that Portal did not consider transferring as that policy had a 
guaranteed maturity value. 
Portal identified Ms R as having the following objectives:
Taking tax free cash at age 55, and income as required
Consolidation 
Performance
Move away from equity based investments
Portal assessed that Ms R had a balanced attitude to risk (ATR). 
Portal recommended that Ms R transfer her pension to a SIPP. It explained that the benefits 
would be likely to exceed those with her existing scheme. And recommended the following 
investment strategy:
6.5% Lakeview UK Investments plc
12% Marbella Resort and Spa plc
13% Real Estate Investments USA plc
6% Motion Picture Global Investments plc
12.5% Strategic Residential Developments plc
40% split equally between four regulated investment funds
10% Cash
Portal explained that some of the funds could be considered relatively illiquid. But explained 
that they were suitable given Ms R had 16 years until her selected retirement date.
In November 2020 Ms R complained to Portal that the advice shed been given in November 
2013 hadnt been in her best interests. She thought that the pension shed already had at the 
time of advice was most suitable for her.
Portal responded to Ms Rs complaint by explaining why it couldnt investigate the matter. It 
said that the complaint had been made too late under the regulatory rules. It considered that 
letters it had sent to Ms R on 21 January 2016 and 15 March 2017 explained the illiquid 
nature of a proportion of her fund. Which meant that she was only able to release a part of 
her fund as drawdown. 
Ms R brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator explained why he didnt think 
that Ms R had made her complaint too late. Portal responded to say that it didnt accept the 
investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It didnt give any reason why it 
disagreed with his view.
Whilst waiting for an ombudsman to consider the question of jurisdiction, our investigator 
sent both parties his opinion on the merits of the case. He didnt think that Portals advice to 
transfer was in Ms Rs best interests. He said that the recommendation placed her into a 
pension with higher charges and exposed her to investments that werent suitable for her.
Portal didnt respond to our investigators view on merits. And this case came to me to 
consider whether it was in our jurisdiction and, if it was, its merits. I issued a provisional 
decision to both parties to let them know my decision regarding the jurisdiction and my 
provisional decision on the merits.
I explained that Ms Rs case had been made in time. I set out in detail my reasons for 
coming to that decision. Ive had no additional evidence or comment regarding that. Ive 
reconsidered these issues in making this final decision and my decision remains as I 
explained to both parties previously. Ms Rs complaint is in our jurisdiction and is something 
that we can help to resolve. I informed both parties that I would not set out that jurisdiction 
decision again here where it remained unchanged.
I also explained to both parties that I was minded to uphold Ms Rs complaint, explaining 
why I thought that Portal gave Ms R unsuitable advice. And I suggested a way for Portal to 
put things right. Ms R responded to say that she accepted the opinion Id given. Portal failed 
to provide any response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my provisional decision remains unchanged. Im upholding Ms Rs 
complaint for the same reasons that I explained in my provisional view, which I will explain 
again below:
Portal were only advising on one of Ms Rs pension products. It conducted a fact-find with 
Ms R, and established that she was a member of a pension with her employer but obtained 
no details of the size of the fund or type of benefits. But it explained that it would be best left 
as it was. Portal obtained basic information about Ms Rs income and expenditure and her 
financial situation. Portal had no evidence that Ms R had any savings other than her 
personal pension. It appeared unlikely that she had much disposable income after the living 
expense of her and her two children was taken into account.
Portal assessed Ms Rs ATR as being balanced. But I cant see how it came to this 
conclusion. Its fact-find contains a questionnaire to assist in assessing ATR. But it doesnt 
appear to have been completed. She told us that she wasnt someone who liked to take 
much risk with her investments. It seems more likely than not that she had little to no 
investment experience to draw on. But may have been prepared to take an element of risk. 
And she did see Portals suitability report and subsequent reviews that made it clear that 
they were treating her as having a balanced attitude to risk. It explained broadly what that 
meant and Ms R doesnt appear to have challenged that at the time.
I dont think that Portal fairly assessed that Ms R had a sufficient capacity for loss on this 
pension. It offered little commentary in its suitability report on this point. This wasnt her only 
pension. And Ms R had around 16 years to her selected retirement age of 60, so could 
potentially continue to contribute to her pension. But Ms R was working part time, earning £6,800 a year. So Portal ought to have considered that it was unlikely that Ms R could easily 
replace any loss in these pension funds. Ms R owned no property or other assets, so the 
security of this pension fund was important to her income in the future. So, whilst she had 
some capacity for loss, I think it was low. Ms R couldnt really afford, for example, to be 
exposed to high risk or unproven investments, with the chance that they could default.
Portal considered her personal pension and recommended a transfer to a SIPP. It did this 
because it said that delivered Ms Rs objectives  outlined above in the background. So Ill 
give my thoughts on those objectives in turn.
Portal shouldnt have considered that the objective of taking tax free cash at age 55 was a 
compelling reason for someone to transfer a pension at the age of 43. The idea of access to 
a tax free lump sum at 55 may well have been attractive to Ms R given her financial position 
at the time. But twelve years was a long time off. She couldnt know what her position would 
be at that time. Making decisions based on how she might want to take benefits that far in 
the future wasnt reasonable. It wouldnt be a reason that might contribute to making a 
transfer suitable until she was much closer to age 55.
Portal said that Ms R wanted consolidation of her pensions. This strikes me as a stock 
objective rather than a specific objective Ms R may have had. As far as Im aware she had 
two pensions. And Portal were only giving a recommendation on one. So its 
recommendation did nothing to consolidate or simplify Ms Rs financial circumstances.
I will consider the objective of performance together with the stated objective of moving away 
from equity backed investments. Most investors are likely to want the best performance from 
their pension. Within the limits of the risk that theyre prepared to accept. Portal identified 
that Ms Rs ceding pension had averaged 9.25% growth a year over the previous 5 years. 
So it isnt clear that her pension was performing poorly. Or that Ms R was unhappy with 
those returns. However, Ms R may well have been interested in moving her pension if the 
likelihood of better returns was high enough. But Portal werent able to offer guarantees of 
that.
Portals recommendation concluded with the statement by investing in the personal pension 
you will benefit from a wide selection of funds to ensure that your pension will achieve the 
best possible growth in the most effective funds. Which was likely to be persuasive for 
Ms R, coming from a trusted financial adviser. But I dont think that the suitability report gave 
sufficient explanation to support that finding. 
The suitability report recommended investments  listed above in the background. Some of 
these recommendations related to investments that Portal were describing as secured 
bonds. It explained that they were fixed term investments and that they were illiquid  not 
easily bought or sold. Portal explained that the investments were secured against assets 
such as land or property. Which I think gave the impression that they were quite safe. It 
explained the target returns on each of the secured bonds. These varied from 7% to 11% a 
year. But Portals recommendation failed to adequately explain the unregulated nature of 
these investments. And the potential for the loss of the entire investment in the event that the 
fund defaulted.
These secured bonds werent investments that were linked to equities. But Im not convinced 
that Ms R was strongly motivated by this. I can see that Portal recorded that Ms R would 
prefer more stable funds than equity backed investments. But it doesnt explain why. Ms R 
appeared to have no significant investment experience or knowledge on which to base this 
opinion. But this statement would possibly indicate someone with a lower ATR than 
balanced. And, whilst Portal should have considered Ms Rs concerns, its advice should have been based on what was in her best interests, rather than blindly following vague 
statements of preference.
The following investment recommendations that Portal made were unregulated collective 
investment schemes (UCIS):
Lakeview UK Investments plc
Marbella Resort and Spa plc
Real Estate Investments USA plc
Motion Picture Global Investments plc
Strategic Residential Developments plc
These investments were not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They were 
collective investments  structures where many investors pool their money to be invested in 
the specified way.
At the time that Portal made its recommendation to Ms R, the FCA had already published a 
report in 2010 about good and poor practice regarding UCIS. It highlighted its concern that 
UCIS were being recommended to customers for whom they werent suitable. These types 
of funds can have a high degree of volatility. 
I havent seen that the funds in question had a great deal of past performance on which 
Portal could base its recommendation. These investments ought to have been treated as 
speculative investments and, even where suitable for a customer, should only have been 
considered for a small part of any investment portfolio. Instead, Portal recommended that 
Ms R invest 50% of this pension into these types of investments. And according to the fact-
find, Portal had no reason to suppose that Ms R had other, safer investments in other 
products to offset the risk of having so much tied up in UCIS.
I think that Portals description of these funds misrepresented them as potentially being quite 
safe. It should have made it clearer that these funds were unregulated and offered no 
protection through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in the event that 
the schemes defaulted.
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think these investments were suitable for Ms R. 
They werent appropriate for a retail customer with her ATR or her capacity for loss. So they 
shouldnt have been recommended by Portal in these circumstances. 
These UCIS only became available to Ms R because of the recommendation to transfer to 
the SIPP. So the inclusion of them didnt provide a reason to recommend the switch to the 
SIPP that Portal gave. The SIPP was a more expensive product in terms of its charges. And 
the more complex nature of the investment choices meant it was more likely that Ms R would 
need ongoing reviews. Which she agreed to with Portal. This introduced a further cost that 
might not have been necessary if shed remained in her existing scheme. And Ive 
addressed Ms Rs other stated objectives and dont think any of them warranted a 
recommendation to move from her previous personal pension.
It follows that, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think it was suitable to recommend that Ms R 
transfer from her existing scheme at all. The scheme that she had, appeared to meet her 
needs. Portal made no reference to the type of investments she held in that scheme, or 
whether they matched her ATR or not. I dont think it gave much consideration to the idea 
that it may have been in Ms Rs interests to leave her pension where it was. But for Portals 
unsuitable recommendation, I think its more likely than not that Ms R would have remained 
in her previous personal pension.Ms R has subsequently appointed a new IFA who moved the liquid part of her investments in 
this SIPP back to a personal pension with her former pension provider. However, when this 
was done in September 2021, illiquid investments were still held by the SIPP so it couldnt 
be closed. Ms R is left incurring SIPP fees as well as ongoing uncertainty about the eventual 
value of that investment.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms R should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Ms R would have remained with her previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Ms R's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Ms R fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Ms R's investment with the notional value (defined 
below). If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is 
payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Ms R's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Ms R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms R's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms R would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Ms R £350 for the distress caused by seeing large parts of her investments 
default and not knowing how much she may lose from her pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms R how much has been taken off. Portal should give Ms R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms R asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
provider, unless 
unobtainable, 
when the FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index 
should be usedDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
Portal should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Ms R provides an undertaking to pay 
Portal any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan.
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Ms R's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any transfer from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at 
the point it was actually transferred so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from 
that point on.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Ms R's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Ms R can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Ms R an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Novia SIPP to be closed.
Why is the above FTSE UK Index suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms R wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given 
Ms R's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Portal Financial Services LLP must pay the amount calculated as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman