DRN-3983105
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he 
fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr G responded to an online advert for a company which claimed to provide cryptocurrency 
trading advice. On their advice, Mr G moved funds from his NatWest account into 
cryptocurrency wallets he set up, and he then transferred these on to a supposed trading 
platform. But when he was ordered to pay an additional fee to withdraw some of his funds 
from that platform, he realised it was a scam.
Initially, Mr G disputed the matter with NatWest. He then referred his complaint about 
NatWest to our service. He said it should refund him in line with the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, of which NatWest is a signatory. He 
also said the payments were uncharacteristic, so it should have performed further checks  
and if it had, that would have prevented his loss.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained the CRM code didnt apply to 
these payments. She also didnt think the payments looked unusual enough to warrant 
further checks from NatWest. But even if they had been flagged, she wasnt convinced 
NatWest would have uncovered the scam as Mr G had been coached by the scammer on 
what to say about the payments. She also didnt think it missed an opportunity to recover the 
lost funds. 
Mr G has appealed, so the case has been passed to me to decide. In summary, he says its 
common for this type of scam to involve payments to a legitimate cryptocurrency platform. 
He also argues his payment of just over £10,000 was significantly out of character. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr G has confirmed he authorised these payments. In line with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, NatWest is expected to execute authorised payment instructions without 
undue delay. So the starting position is that Mr G is liable for the payments.
While NatWest is a signatory of the CRM code, under which banks are generally expected to 
refund victims of authorised push payment scams, it doesnt apply to these payments. Thats 
because they were sent by card, and international transfer, to wallets in Mr Gs own name 
(and under his control). The CRM code doesnt apply to payments made to an account held 
by the sender. Nor does it cover card payments or international transfers. 
However, there are also some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment.
NatWest hasnt been able to confirm whether any payments were flagged due to the 
passage of time. So I have considered whether they should have been. And if so, whether 
appropriate intervention would have prevented Mr Gs loss.
The payment destinations wouldnt have been cause for concern  as the payments went to 
genuine cryptocurrency merchants rather than to a known scammer. But there are other 
reasons why a bank might identify a payment as presenting a fraud risk. Such as if it is 
significantly out of character with the customers usual account activity. And while the 
payment destination alone wasnt a concern, nor was it a complete reassurance. As Mr G 
has pointed out, it is common for cryptocurrency scams to involve payments to genuine 
cryptocurrency merchants to start. 
I agree with our investigator that there is a reasonable case for arguing these payments 
werent so unusual that NatWest ought to have had concerns. As she highlighted, Mr G had 
a history of making payments to trading platforms unconnected to the scam. Which made 
the scam payments appear more expected and in keeping with how the account was 
normally used. 
There were also other high value payments made from the account, which will again have 
affected the level of spending NatWest would have seen as within normal parameters. And 
most of the scam payments were in the region of a few hundred points, which didnt look 
particularly suspicious within Mr Gs general spending. I dont think the payment for around 
£5,000 looked particularly concerning either, given there were other similar value payments 
made around that time. 
I do appreciate the £10,000 did arguably appear to be an escalation. However, even if 
NatWest had intervened at this point, I agree with our investigator its unlikely it would have 
succeeded in stopping the scam. That is because Mr G has told us he was coached by the 
scammer on what to say if the payments were blocked. This is backed up by the records he 
has provided of his contact with the scammer. There is, in fact, mention of contact with 
NatWest around this time  although its unclear if that was in response to payments being 
flagged. In response, the scammer told Mr G to say he was just investing by himself, and to 
not mention third parties. 
And so, if NatWest questioned Mr G about the scam payments, it appears likely he would 
have claimed to be trading by himself without third party involvement. In those 
circumstances, it seems unlikely to NatWest would have had cause to think something 
untoward was going on  as the scenario as described wouldnt have matched the usual 
features of a cryptocurrency scam. 
I appreciate Mr G was coached. But the indication is that he didnt answer, or wouldnt have 
answered, NatWests questions honestly. And that would have made it more difficult for 
NatWest to have identified, and protected him from, the scam risk. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded any failings by NatWest in processing the payments 
give fair cause to hold it liable for Mr Gs subsequent loss. I also dont think NatWest missed an opportunity to recover Mr Gs fraudulent loss. As set 
out above, the funds were transferred to Mr Gs own wallets with legitimate cryptocurrency 
companies, before being passed on to the scammer. So NatWest couldnt recall the funds, 
as they had been moved on. Nor were there probable grounds for successful chargeback 
claims against the wallet providers, as they provided the expected service by loading the 
funds to the wallets in line with the payment requests received. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr G, who clearly fell victim to a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. But Ive decided not to direct NatWest to refund him for his loss, or to 
otherwise compensate him or take further action in relation to his complaint. Overall, Im not 
persuaded it should fairly be held at fault for the loss Mr G incurred at the hands of the 
scammers.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman