DRN-3401523
The complaint
Mr A complains that eToro (UK) Ltd sold his shares even though the stop loss limit hed set 
wasnt reached. He wants eToro to credit the shares back to his account and to compensate 
him for the stress its caused.
What happened
On 30 December 2020 Mr A carried out three purchases of shares in a US quoted company 
which Ill refer to as B. On 4 January 2021 he set a stop loss limit of US$4 for each of the 
positions he held. The following day the shares were sold by eToro and Mr A received US$4 
per share.
Mr A says the stop loss limit he set of US$4 wasnt reached and the shares shouldnt have 
been sold. He says he holds the same shares in an account with a different broker and he 
set the same stop loss at the same time. The shares held with his other broker did not sell 
because his broker says the stop loss limit wasnt reached.
eToro says the stop loss orders were triggered because the price fell to US$4. It says it uses 
different liquidity providers to other brokers, which is why Mr As orders with another broker 
werent triggered.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the orders had been correctly executed.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The low price for the day the orders were carried out was US$4.28. The liquidity 
providers price differences wouldnt be as great as US$0.28.
The investigator should have checked the prices being provided by the liquidity providers 
on 5 January 2021, not just relied on what eToro has provided. And they should contact 
the liquidity provider direct for evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly its important to clarify that the ombudsman service is an informal dispute resolution 
service and is an alternative to the courts. Mr A has suggested we should seek further 
evidence direct from the liquidity providers. But Im satisfied that I have all the information 
I need to make a fair and reasonable decision in this case.
Im satisfied that the stop loss orders were correctly triggered on 5 January 2021 because 
the price Mr A set  US$4  was reached. The price was only reached for a very short 
period, but Im satisfied that it was reached and that eToro has provided evidence of this 
from an independent source.
I can understand why Mr A has questioned this  the low price for 5 January 2021 was 
recorded by NASDAQ as being US$4.28. But eToro uses EToro Europe as its execution 
venue. This is explained in its terms and conditions:
eToro Europe will therefore be the execution venue for your trades. Your orders are 
therefore executed outside a regulated exchange, multilateral trading facility ("MTF") or 
organised trading facility ("OTF") and you have given us express consent to trade for you in 
this manner. (2.3)
NASDAQ is a regulated market and its data will only reflect trades which take place on 
exchange. Mr As trade was carried out outside of a regulated exchange.
I find e-Toro reasonably acted on Mr As instructions to sell B shares because his stop loss 
orders had been triggered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman