DRN-4268007
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Tesla Financial Services Limited, who Ill call Tesla.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesla, but I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality. Ill
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr A acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Tesla, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was brand 
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults, or to experience 
any, for quite some time.
The relevant legislation explains that when we think about whether a car has been of
satisfactory quality we should also consider whether it has been durable.
Mr A took receipt of the car in December 2021, since then hes experienced the following 
issues with the car:
Headlights and taillights out of alignment;
paintwork problems in January 2022;
missing USB;
sound system repair;
condensation in taillights (twice)
a faulty hood latch;
further paint problems on rear door;
HV battery replacement;
interior light replaced;
concerns about handling  a third party garage identified a worn bush and misaligned 
wheels;
a rattling speaker;
a misaligned drivers door.
Theres some dispute about whether the HV battery has failed prematurely, and the 
business havent corroborated the third party garages findings about the cars suspension. 
But even if those problems are excluded, I dont think a reasonable person would consider 
the catalogue of problems Mr A has experienced with the car, within the first year and a half 
and 16,000 miles, would render it sufficiently durable. 
It's for those reasons that I think Tesla should Mr A to reject the car.
Putting things right
Tesla should collect the car at no cost to Mr A and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr A has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
It's not fair that Mr A has had to pay for the car when it was off the road, but it is fair for Tesla 
to be allowed to keep some of Mr As finance instalments in respect of the use he has had 
from the car. I understand that courtesy cars were provided but its clear that Mr As use of 
the car he had would have been impaired because of the faults he was experiencing and, 
overall, I think it would therefore be fair for Tesla to refund 15% of any finance instalments 
that have been paid since faults were first reported (January 2022) and waive 15% of any 
that were due but havent been paid. Theyll need to add interest to the refund.
Mr A has had to commission a report on the cars condition in order to support his claim. I 
think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. 
So, Tesla should refund the cost of that report (£207) on provision of proof of payment from 
Mr A. They should add interest to that refund too.
Mr A has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and has had to arrange a third party report on the cars 
condition. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have 
been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Tesla should pay him £400 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Tesla Financial Services 
Limited to:
allow Mr A to reject the car and end the finance agreement;collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
refund any deposit that has been paid, and the order fee of £100. Add 8% simple 
interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund 15% of all finance payments that have been made from the date issues were 
first recorded (January 2022), in respect of loss of use and impaired use. Add 8% 
simple interest* per year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund the cost of Mr As independent report on provision of proof of payment and 
add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr A £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman