DRN-3064147
The complaint
Mr R complained about how he was treated when he wanted to make a large cash 
withdrawal from a branch of Barclays Bank UK PLC. He said he felt that the poor treatment 
he received was because of his BAME background.
What happened
Mr R wanted to complain about how the branch manager treated him when he went to a 
branch of Barclays. Mr R wanted to make a large cash withdrawal, and asked whether that 
would be possible. He said he was kept waiting for 45 minutes, before the manager came 
out to say that the branch didnt have enough cash. Mr R said when he tried to complain 
about this, the branch manager was extremely aggressive and shouty. 
Mr R said the manager threatened to call the police as he was not following the social 
distancing guidelines, but he said that wasnt true. Mr R said he found this extremely 
shocking, distressing and disturbing. He told us that he felt the threat of calling the police 
was laced with serious racial undertones. 
Mr R has told us its difficult to convey the visceral aggression of the lady towards him, and 
he thinks this is purely down to his BAME background. And he didnt think that Barclays had 
taken his complaint seriously. 
Barclays said that Mr R had complained about the service he received in branch, and it had 
offered £25 just to say sorry. But when Mr R said that the incident was much more serious, 
and he wanted £100 instead, Barclays had asked the branch about what happened. And the 
branch said that its recollection was very different to Mr Rs. 
The branch staff said Mr R did have to wait to see if cash was available, but that the wait 
wasnt as long as Mr R had suggested. The branch told Mr R that the amount of money he 
wanted wasnt available, and asked which other branch he would like to go to. But they said 
Mr R refused to answer. They arranged for him to collect the funds from another nearby 
branch, but said he then told staff he wouldnt go there. The branch said that Mr R had been 
aggressive towards its staff. 
Barclays said it now didnt feel that its staff had done anything wrong, but it was still 
prepared to honour the initial offer of £25, which was made before it had spoken to the 
branch. Mr R however had rejected that payment, and asked for the credit into his account to 
be reversed, so Barclays took the money back. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Barclays had explained 
why Mr R had to wait, while it had tried to resolve the issue of the cash withdrawal for Mr R. 
And he said that we can only generally comment on what might have been said during a 
complaint if we have evidence. Part of Mr Rs complaint is about how he was made to feel 
on the day by comments from staff at the branch. Our investigator said he wasnt there, and 
there was no evidence on what happened, so he couldnt comment on that. He didnt dispute 
how Mr R felt, but couldnt confirm that Barclays would have intentionally made Mr R feel this 
way. So he said that the £25 offered was both fair and reasonable.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he was very disappointed. He said it looked as if our service 
didnt have any soft powers to hold the banks accountable in such scenarios. Mr R wanted to 
stress that the complaint wasn't triggered by the wait time, or by any Covid-19 protocol, or 
the daily limit of cash withdrawals in the branch. It was the behaviour of the manager.
Mr R said he appreciated the point about not being there but that doesnt alleviate Barclays 
responsibility to treat customers fairly and equally.
Because Mr R didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Before reaching my decision in this case, I asked whether the branch had retained the CCTV 
footage from the day in question. Barclays has now told us that the branch didnt keep this. It 
also said that the managers recollection was that the discussions with Mr R were around the 
exterior of the building and the entrance, which are all areas that CCTV doesnt cover. 
The branch hasnt otherwise added to its evidence in this case. So we know that Mr Rs 
recollection of events and the branch managers recollection are quite different. Each does 
provide a full explanation for what has happened. And unfortunately, there is no independent 
evidence of what happened on the day in question.
Mr R wanted to know if our service actually had powers to deal with service issues, and if we 
were able to look into incidents of discrimination. Although we dont provide a formal finding 
that discrimination law has been breached (thats the role of the courts) we do look into 
incidents about service failings, and we do take account of allegations of discrimination. We 
arent limited to looking at how financial products have been provided. 
But the difficulty here, is that this complaint unfortunately comes down to one persons word 
against another. And, as our investigator said, that makes things very difficult. 
I do recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling here. Hes told us that hes sure what happened 
was about treating him less favourably because of his race, so I quite understand why he 
considers this to be particularly serious. But for me to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
decide that it was most likely that things happened as Mr R said. It is very difficult to do that, 
with no supporting evidence to tip things in Mr Rs favour. And here, Ive not been able to 
reach that decision. So Im sorry to have to tell Mr R that I havent been able to decide that 
Barclays did provide him with poor service, or to set out what the motivation for that may 
have been.
I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman