DRN-3704925
The complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (who Ill call Lloyds) were unreasonable to reject a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I dont think a breach of contract, or a misrepresentation has been demonstrated here. 
If the car had been of unsatisfactory quality I would consider the contract to have been 
breached. However, I dont think that was the case. The invoice included warnings that the 
car was a nonrunner and was unroadworthy so whilst an MOT may have been completed 
on it several months earlier, and the car may have been roadworthy at that point, it clearly 
wasnt when Mr B took receipt of it, and he was alerted to that fact. The price of the car 
reflected its unroadworthy condition and I dont it would be fair to suggest it was of 
unsatisfactory quality because wheel nuts were missing. I think it likely that would have been 
clear to Mr B when he bought the car and inspected it and that he therefore accepted the car 
in that condition. 
If Mr B was given a false statement of fact when he bought the car and if that false statement 
was significant in persuading him to accept the deal, Id think there had been a 
misrepresentation. Whilst the presence of an MOT wasnt listed on the sales documentation 
I think its logical and likely to suggest that, had it been, it wouldnt have put Mr B off buying 
the car and would have been seen as beneficial. So, I dont think that missing information 
suggested a misrepresentation and Ive not seen any other reason to suggest this car was 
misrepresented to Mr B.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds were unreasonable to reject Mr Bs section 75 claim as I dont 
think there is evidence of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. For the same reasons, 
I dont think a claim under the chargeback scheme would have been likely to succeed and I 
dont think Lloyds were unreasonable not to progress one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman