DRN-4053197
The complaint
Mr D complains about the basis on which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have 
calculated the value of his deferred annuity when it was transferred following the winding up 
of his defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS). He says that Aviva has replaced 
the use of the Retail Price Index (RPI) with the Consumer Price Index (CPI) to revalue the 
plan annually  based on The Pensions Act (PA) of 2011. But he thinks that Aviva is in 
breach of its original contract with him and shouldnt have altered the basis of the 
revaluation. 
What happened
Mr D had been a member of a defined benefit OPS until it wound up. Thereafter the scheme 
was bulk transferred to Aviva who then set up individual deferred annuity policies for the 
members so that the guarantees from the OPS were preserved.
A policy schedule issued to Mr D confirmed that his deferred annuity plan started on 
7 December 2007  with a single premium of £11,282.33, and would be payable (mature) on 
18 March 2022. 
From 2016 onwards Mr D questioned some of the pension figures he was receiving 
annually. As a result Aviva uncovered various errors in its manual calculations and paid Mr D 
a total of £1,100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. But these 
errors caused Mr D to question whether Aviva had correctly revalued his pension  
especially as he checked the figures himself using an online calculator. Mr D thought that 
either Aviva wasnt revaluing his plan in line with RPI as it should have done and was using 
CPI or, if it had used RPI, then it had made an error in its calculation.
Aviva said it had revalued the pension in line with the Social Security Act 1985 (SSA85). It 
said this was in line with the contractual terms  albeit the wording was slightly different - 
and was based on published rates which it had to use. So it said it had revalued Mr Ds 
pension plan in line with how it was legally obliged to.  
But Mr D didnt accept this explanation and thought the pension should be uplifted by the 
lower of 5% and the increase in RPI for the year. He also wanted further compensation for 
the considerable distress and inconvenience hed suffered, so he brought his complaint to us 
where one of the investigators looked into the matter. 
He said the complaint should be upheld. After extensive research he found that the UK 
government didnt create a statutory override that meant Aviva could alter its agreed terms, 
where RPI had been set out as a revaluation measure. He also thought that the whole issue 
had caused significant distress and upset to Mr D. 
So he said Aviva should work out whether there was any shortfall from using CPI instead of 
RPI when it revalued Mr Ds pension and pay it into his pension as well as paying him £800 
compensation. 
Mr D accepted the outcome of the assessment, but he felt that, as he had spent around 210 
hours trying to resolve the matter  without a reasonable explanation from Aviva during that 
time  the compensation for the loss of his time should be more in line with an hourly rate of 
around £50. He asked for the level of compensation awarded to be reconsidered.
Aviva said it had acted correctly and didnt agree with the request to revalue using RPI. It 
made the following points in response:
Mr Ds original complaint was that his pension income  in excess of any guaranteed 
minimum pension (GMP), should be revalued by RPI or 5% whichever was the 
lowest  so at least 5%.
It had already explained what information it used for the revaluation and why.
It explained how RPI is calculated and that this was the rate it was required to use 
according to legislation  which was the SSA85. This publishes a higher and lower 
rate. 
The rate it had used to revalue Mr Ds policy had been the RPI. But in any case, the 
figures had been the same for RPI and CPI since the change after the PA in 2011. It 
had checked the rate used for the current year and confirmed it was correct.
So it didnt think it had done anything wrong and couldnt therefore carry out the 
investigators recommendation to recalculate using RPI. 
It thought Mr D had changed the basis of his original complaint and added to it. It felt 
that Mr D had misinterpreted the wording of the SSA85.   
The investigator said all the previous evidence he had seen suggested that Aviva had used 
CPI for the revaluation. But Aviva confirmed that it had been using RPI and continued to do 
so. It suggested that the confusion had been caused by Mr Ds interpretation of the 
legislation wording and a comparison of the government figures against ones that he was 
using. 
But as Aviva said it didnt see how it could now agree to do something it was already doing 
the complaint was referred to an ombudsman. So it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I also said the complaint should be upheld but I set out a different 
way to resolve the matter and amended the level of compensation I thought should be 
awarded. I made the following points in support of my findings:
I thought the original policy schedule was clear in setting out how the revaluation 
should be calculated, and it did state it ought to be the lower of 5% or RPI. I thought 
the statement could have been clearer, but it was further supported by an extract 
from another document Aviva provided from when the policy was first set up.
But I didnt think Aviva had been clear in its communication to Mr D  and 
subsequently to this service  that it had used RPI in its revaluation as opposed to 
CPI. 
Mr D had (correctly) challenged some of Avivas calculations of his pension income 
over the years and it had paid him a significant amount of compensation for its errors 
 so I understood why Mr D continued to question its calculations and was 
unconvinced by Aviva responses about using RPI instead of CPI.
I had already asked Aviva to provide us with evidence of its calculation but it had 
failed to do so. Therefore I asked it to provide the evidence to Mr D before I 
completed my final decision on this matter.In addition to the significant compensation it had previously paid Mr D for other 
calculation errors, Aviva offered a further £300 for the delay in responding to his 
complaint. I thought those payments and the current offer were fair and reasonable 
for the previous errors.
But I thought Avivas responses about the use of RPI lacked clarity and, despite its 
assertion that it had imparted the correct explanation to Mr D throughout the 
complaint process, I didnt think it had. And I thought this had led to Mr Ds ongoing 
quest for answers and his continued frustration. I said Aviva should pay a further 
£300 for the impact this had on Mr D. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr D made a number of points both about and in response to, my provisional decision. He 
said:
He doesnt believe the SSA85 is referenced in his original policy contract and its 
significance wasnt explained to him throughout this process. He thinks Aviva should 
have explained it to him and that supports his view that Avivas complaints 
department didnt have the required technical knowledge to deal with complex 
pension queries/complaints. 
He thinks Aviva simply hoped he would give up and go away during the course of 
his (extended) complaint, and believes we allowed it to continue that tactic when we 
investigated the complaint by being too lenient. He says this means that, if my final 
decision is along the same lines, his only remaining option is to pursue a legal course 
of action  which he says he cant afford to do.
He disagreed with what Aviva said it had explained and confirmed to him about CPI, 
RPI, and the revaluation. He thought we had just accepted what Aviva told us it had 
confirmed to him, instead of investigating further. He thought that if we let Aviva get 
away with its (poor) explanation of things it was likely to do the same again. 
This was the first time he had been made aware of the equalisation of RPI and CPI 
rates in recent years. He said that a clearer explanation of this from Aviva would 
probably have meant he wouldnt now be continuing his ongoing complaint.
He thought the level of compensation Id recommended should be higher. He thought 
that, because Avivas version of events was inaccurate, and it hadnt provided the 
information Id asked it for  then the compensation Id suggested wasnt in line with 
the distress hed suffered. 
Aviva didnt think a decision should be made against it. It said it had explained its 
methodology involved in the revaluation  both to us and Mr D, countless times during this 
process. It made the following points in support of its claim:
It confirmed that it had only ever used the same method to carry out its revaluation 
calculation  which included RPI only and not CPI.
It had explained this position to Mr D on many occasions but felt he didnt accept that 
this matched his original policy schedule. It didnt think Mr D had raised the issue of 
using CPI instead of RPI, but thought that was raised by us during our investigation. 
It had confirmed that the wording within the policy schedule was to be interpreted as 
SSA85. It went on to provide a calculation, in line with that act, which showed that 
Mr Ds pension (excess over GMP) was revalued using RPI and the rate had been 
determined by the government actuary table from its website. 
It believed it had demonstrated how the revaluation had been calculated a number of 
times during this process. So it didnt think it should have to do so again and it didnt 
believe it should pay additional compensation for the fact that Mr D simply didnt 
accept what it had said.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, after careful consideration of both sides further submissions, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings  so Ill explain my reasoning further.
In his complaint Mr D told us that hed been in written dispute with Aviva since 2016 and had 
been compensated for a number of errors it had made with the calculation of his pension 
income. But more recently hed discovered that Aviva, in his view, was using CPI to revalue 
his income at retirement instead of RPI  which he believed was in breach of his original 
contract. So in the first instance Ive looked at the original policy schedule to confirm what it 
says. 
What the policy schedule says
The first provision noted that:
1. The annuity payable to the annuitant will be the sum of
(a) Your guaranteed Minimum Pension which is £1,244.36 pa as at the 5 April 2005 revalued 
annually from that date up to and including the tax year before age 65 (males) and 60 
(females) at 4.5% pa compound,
(b) £6750.79 pa revalued annually from 5 April 2005 to the date of maturity at the lower of 
5% and the increase in the RPI for the year,and
(c) £4877.57 pa revalued annually from 5 April 2005 to the date of maturity at the lower of 
5% and the increase in the RPI for the year.
While I think this could have been slightly clearer, I believe the schedule explained how the 
different parts of Mr Ds pension income should be brought up to date when he started to 
take his annuity. And I think it was clear that the revaluation ought to be the lower of 5% or 
the increase in RPI for the year.
Aviva also provided an extract from documentation which was produced when the deferred 
annuity policies were first set up. I havent been able to verify the document title, but Im 
satisfied that its relevant to the policy schedule or terms and conditions from the inception of 
the annuity. It said that the scheme operates fixed rate revaluation on GMPs from the date 
of leaving to State Pension Age. Benefits in excess of GMPs revalue by 5%, or RPI if less, 
from the date of leaving up to NRD on SSA85 basis.
I think this was even clearer and set out the basis on which revaluation should be carried 
out. Im satisfied that the calculation should be on the basis of using RPI and not CPI. 
What basis has Aviva used?
Mr D says his loss of confidence in Aviva as his pension plan administrator and the number 
of previous errors it made has caused him to doubt how this revaluation has been 
calculated. In addition, he says that an online calculator hes used suggests his pension 
hasnt been revalued correctly.  
But Mr D hasnt provided any documentary evidence to support his claim that Avivas calculation is incorrect.
While Aviva says it has always carried out a revaluation using RPI and has simply accessed 
the relevant figures from the government website. It says this has all been carried out in 
accordance with the SSA85. 
Ive carefully considered the additional material Ive been provided with, and Im now 
satisfied that Aviva has carried out the revaluation in accordance with how it was supposed 
to  in line with the original policy schedule. Aviva has shown that the original pension 
incomes Mr D was due from the annuity  namely GMP and the excess over GMP both pre 
and post 1997, were revalued for a term of 16 years using revalued growth of 44%. This was 
the increase in RPI over that period of time according to the government website containing 
such information. 
So I think Aviva has carried out the calculation in line with its statutory requirements and 
theres no additional evidence to support Mr Ds claim that it hasnt been carried out 
correctly.  So I dont think its reasonable to tell Aviva that its calculation is wrong and that it 
should pay Mr D additional income. But I have to also consider that, in my view, Aviva hasnt 
demonstrated this calculation  in simple terms  to Mr D. And that its lack of clarity in its 
explanation has impacted him by ensuring he had to continue his ongoing complaint, as well 
as providing conflicting information which I think would have added to his overall frustration. 
Ive therefore gone to look at what I think Aviva needs to do to compensate Mr D for the 
ongoing distress hes suffered.
Putting things right
When we asked Aviva to provide a revaluation calculation to show it had used RPI and not 
CPI, it said it wasnt able to do something it had already done. It said it had showed Mr D, on 
countless occasions, what it had done. It says Mr D simply doesnt believe what it has said. 
But I havent seen any evidence to show that it provided Mr D with the kind of simple 
calculation and explanation which would have allayed his concerns. Indeed, Avivas final 
response letter to Mr D in March 2021 said After discussions within the business, I confirm 
we'll still revalue your policy based on the Social Security Act 1985 (SSA85). We're satisfied 
the policy schedule allows the use of this legislative method. The Pensions Act 2011 
replaced RPI (Retail Price Index) with CPI (Consumer Price Index) as the basis for the 
minimum statutory revaluation, and it's what we've used since.
This was in contradiction to what Aviva has said previously (in 2018) and was stated before 
our involvement in the complaint  so I dont agree with Aviva that it was our investigation 
that opened up the issue of RPI against CPI. Mr D had raised these concerns before he 
brought his complaint to us. So I can fully understand Mr Ds concerns and frustrations here 
as Avivas final response to him was to suggest that it had replaced the use of RPI with CPI 
following the PA of 2011. 
Of course, I accept that Aviva hadnt actually done that, but as it told Mr D that it had used 
CPI  and failed to provide an example calculation to show that it hadnt, I think he had little 
alternative but to assume Aviva had changed its revaluation basis. 
I think this impacted Mr D by extending the duration of his complaint  causing him to invest 
more time and effort in trying to get a resolution. I think it would have caused him some 
concerns about the level of his pension income he could expect to receive as well. So I think 
Aviva should pay Mr D an additional £300 for the trouble and upset this caused. I think that, 
in addition to the £300 thats already been offered, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.I know Mr D doesnt think thats the right level of compensation. He says Aviva hasnt 
answered his complaint fully and hasnt provided the information we requested either. 
He says my provisional decision, if it becomes final in a similar form, doesnt resolve things 
for him. But our role isnt to punish a business or to tell it how it should behave. Our role is to 
ensure that, where a financial loss has occurred because of a firms behaviour, the firm 
should compensate a consumer for that loss. 
And where its actions have caused some degree of distress and inconvenience we make 
awards to compensate for that  which is what Ive done here. Im satisfied that Mr D hasnt 
suffered a financial loss and I think a total of £600 compensation  which includes what 
Aviva has already paid Mr D, is within the range of what Id expect to see for a situation such 
as this. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited needs to provide Mr D with the simple, clear calculation 
and explanation about using RPI, that it provided to us following my provisional decision.
It should also pay Mr D an additional £300 for the impact its lack of clarity about the 
revaluation basis had on him, over and above the £300 it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman