DRN-1850466
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of repairs to his car when he made a claim under his motor 
insurance policy with Covea Insurance plc.
What happened
In early December 2018 Mr M made a claim under his motor insurance policy with 
Covea after an accident. The claim was agreed and repairs were done to the car in January 
2019.
Not long after Mr M picked up the car he spoke with Covea as he had concerns about the 
quality of repairs. To address these concerns Covea instructed an independent engineers 
report which showed there were some issues which needed rectifying. Mr M didn't want to 
take the car back to same garage where the first repairs were done so Covea agreed he 
could get his own estimate which he should get authorised by them before having any 
repairs done. Covea has no record of a new estimate being submitted.
In mid May 2019 Mr M contacted Covea saying he wanted to take the car back to the 
original garage for repair. The repairs were done and Mr M collected the car in late May.
In early July 2019 Mr M contacted again Covea with more concerns about the repairs. He 
said there were issues with the left rear door closing and a faulty trim for which he provided 
video evidence. The videos were reviewed by engineers who didn't think there was a 
problem with the door, and that trim could easily be fixed by the garage.
Around this time Mr M took the car to be inspected at another garage as he wasn't prepared 
to return to the original garage. He says a quote was done which would take a days work to 
fix. Covea was dealing with Mr M's complaint at the same time and issued their final 
response saying the door would become looser over time. 
Mr M remained unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. She thought Covea had acted fairly as they gave 
Mr M the opportunity to provide a report about what was wrong, but this hasn't been done. 
Mr M disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of information about his complaint, especially about the repairs to 
his car and why he is unhappy. I want to reassure Mr M that I've read and considered 
everything he has provided, even if I do not mention it in detail. I've condensed all the 
information into a brief summary which reflects the informal nature of our service. I'm 
satisfied I understand the crux of the problem; Mr M is unhappy with the standard of repairs 
to his car.I think it's important to say that I'm not a mechanic or an engineer, and to make a 
decision on this case I don't need to be. What I'm considering is whether I think Covea acted 
fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr M's claim. It's not for me to decide personally 
whether I think the repairs are an acceptable quality.
There's no doubt the repairs weren't done to an acceptable standard the first time. Whilst it 
was unfortunate the repairs weren't done correctly, I'm glad to see rectification was done by 
Covea. This is what I would expect from an insurer if repairs are not done to an acceptable 
standard.  
Mr M remained unhappy and provided video evidence of what he said were ongoing 
problems. Covea had these looked at by engineers. Having the information looked at by an 
engineer is the right thing for Covea to do. The engineers' opinion was that the door would 
loosen in time. I'm satisfied it's reasonable for Covea to rely on the professional opinion of 
the engineer when looking at the points Mr M raised.
Covea has given Mr M the opportunity to have the door inspected again or to provide a 
report for them to consider. This is reasonable of Covea and a fair way forward. I haven't 
seen any evidence this has happened.
That's not to say there isn't on-going problem with the door; there might be. But without 
inspecting the car again, or being given an independent report to review, I can't say that 
Covea should take any further action. This is because the engineers current opinion is that 
there is no fault with the door.
I'm satisfied Covea has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr M's claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman