DRN-3448606
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited (MotoNovo) was misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. 
If Miss C was given false information that led her to enter into an agreement she wouldnt 
have otherwise entered into I would think the agreement had been misrepresented to her.
I think thats been the case here. I think its likely the car Miss C was supplied with did have 
a salvage marker against it that wasnt reported to Miss C. I say that because:
The dealership Miss C tried to part exchange her car with refused and explained in 
an email to her that  we can't offer you the original valuation for your current car 
as we are unable to sell your car with a salvage marker on the forecourt and it will 
have to go to auction instead.
The investigator provided information from a search on uksalvage.info which shows 
the vehicle appears to have been sold at a salvage auction prior to being supplied to 
Miss C and as a category U car. Ive read the definition of that category that the 
investigator has provided as damage that, for whatever reason, hasnt been reported 
to the insurance.
Miss C has provided further evidence of the marker recorded on a couple of vehicle 
checking sites she has registered with and paid money for. Whilst these arent the 
usual sites wed use to check a vehicles history I dont think theres evidence they 
are not reputable.
Whilst MotoNovo have provided evidence from sites they use to show there isnt a 
salvage marker against the car I dont think thats reasonable. The dealership Miss C 
tried to part exchange her car through were clearly able to find that evidence and 
whilst the marker may not be universally applied its clearly something that is 
preventing, and would prevent, an adequate resale valuation.
So, Im persuaded the car does have a salvage marker against it and Im also persuaded 
Miss C wouldnt have proceeded with the agreement had she known about that marker. I say 
that because:
Miss Cs consistent testimony to us and to MotoNovo (during calls) has been to that 
effect.
The sales price of the car appears to have been slightly higher than market valuation 
at the time of the sale so I dont think Miss C benefitted from any discount that would 
have overridden concerns about the presence of the salvage marker. 
I dont think the average consumer would be likely to proceed with a deal for a car 
with a salvage marker if they were being asked to pay the same amount they would 
for a car without one.
So, I think there is evidence this car was misrepresented to Miss C.
Putting things right
In those circumstances I think we should try to put Miss C back in the position she would 
have been in had the misrepresentation not have happened. 
So, MotoNovo should end the finance agreement and take the car back from Miss C. Theyll 
need to refund any deposit that was paid, adding interest as Miss C has been deprived of 
that money.
Miss C had fair use of the car until December 2021 and its fair she pays for that use. But 
MotoNovo should refund any finance instalments she paid after that as I think its 
understandable Miss C stopped using the car when she became aware of its history. 
MotoNovo will need to add interest to that refund too.
Miss C has also had to pay £4.99 and £2.99 to obtain reports about the cars salvage 
condition. She wouldnt have had to have done that if the car hadnt been misrepresented to 
her so MotoNovo should refund those costs with interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss C.
Refund any deposit paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the monthly instalments paid since December 2021, adding 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Refund the £4.99 and £2.99 Miss C paid to get salvage reports. Add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove the agreement from Miss Cs credit file.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from the interest. It must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman