DRN-2841542
The complaint
Mr S complains that Skrill Limited ceased to offer withdrawals to banks in his country of 
residence.
What happened
Mr S has held an account with Skrill for several years, which he used to withdraw funds to 
his verified bank account in his country of residence.
In November 2019 Skrill made a decision that it would no longer process transfers in Mr Ss 
country of residence.
Mr S complained. In response, Skrill said it had made a decision in line with the terms of use 
of the account, which Mr S had been aware of when he registered for the account. It said it 
had offered alternative withdrawal options and it could see that Mr S had made use of these.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He said hed tried to 
make a withdrawal to a third-party service because hed needed money but this had cost him 
significant fees. He also said hed had to deposit a large amount in a new bank account in 
his country of residence so he could obtain a credit card to use to withdraw funds from Skrill.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Skrill hadnt done anything wrong 
because it had acted in line with the terms of the account.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been told when he deposited funds with Skrill that it would be 
easy to get this back but instead hed had to pay fees and he thought these should be 
refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account which Mr S held with Skrill. These 
says that Skrill doesnt guarantee the availability of a particular withdrawal method, and may 
make changes to, or discontinue, a particular withdrawal method at any time, as long as 
there is at least one other withdrawal method available. Mr S wouldve been aware of the 
terms and conditions when he opened the account.
Skrill has said that it made a business decision to no longer process transfers to banks in Mr 
Ss country of residence. It says it provided customers with an alternative withdrawal method 
to either withdraw funds to a personal bank account in another country, or to send funds to a 
personal visa card.
I appreciate that Mr S had previously used the account to transfer funds to a bank account in 
his country of residence. And I understand how frustrating it mustve been when he could 
nom longer do this. However, having looked at the terms of the account, Im unable to say 
that Krill has done anything wrong. The terms allow Krill to remove a withdrawal method at 
any time, provided that alternative withdrawal facilities are available. Based on what Ive 
seen, alternative withdrawal methods were available and Mr S has managed to use these.
I understand that Mr S is unhappy about the fees he was charged when he used a third party 
service to withdraw funds from Krill. However, I cant see that Krill advised Mr S to use a 
third party, so I dont think its fair to ask it to reimburse Mr S for any fees he incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman