DRN-2089324
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for unfair treatment in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authority dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). 
The effect of DISP 2.8 is that we cant consider a complaint if it is referred to us more than 
six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its final response  
unless the complainants failure to comply with that time limit is due to exceptional 
circumstances or the respondent gives permission.
We can only deal with a complaint against one insurance company or other regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that company or firm, but we dont 
name any other party.
Mrs T had a policy in the name of a home assistance company. From at least 2017 Aviva 
was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. 
The policy provided that Aviva would repair the boiler. Alternatively, if the boiler became 
beyond economic repair (BER), then Aviva would supply a new one free of charge. But if the 
old boiler was more than seven years old Mrs T would have to pay for the installation of the 
new one.
Aviva repaired the boiler in 2018 but when Mrs T wanted to let her house to tenants in 
December 2018, Aviva said the boiler was BER.
On about 24 January 2019 Mrs T paid £750.00. On 28 January 2019, Aviva supplied a new 
boiler and the home assistance company installed it. 
On 15 March 2019 Mrs T complained to the home assistance company. She said it was 
asking her to pay a balance of about £463.06 for installation. 
The home assistance company sent a final response dated 13 May 2019.
In June 2019, the home assistance companys solicitors sent a letter to Mrs T. In July 2019 
the solicitors issued court proceedings against Mrs T. In August 2019 they got a county court 
judgement (CCJ) against her.
In November 2019, it was six months since the final response letter.
In January 2020 Mrs T made another complaint to the home assistance company. It sent a 
final response dated 23 April 2020. Mrs T brought her complaint to us on about 28 April 
2020.
Our investigator said that the only part of the complaint which we could consider was the 
debt recovery action prior to the case being taken to court. 
He didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the home 
assistance company acted reasonably in the way it went about recovering the debt prior to 
the case being taken to court.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She complained that the installation charge was extortionate. She agreed with the 
investigator that this was not for consideration by us.
The home assistance company has misdescribed the correspondence.
If it had acted legally and professionally then this matter wouldnt have got to court, 
as they wouldve reached a payment agreement.
The solicitors letter dated 28 June 2019 had all the hallmarks of a scam.
The CCJ (in default) was obtained in a very underhanded way. 
The home assistance company discontinued the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the letter of 11 February 2019 affects the outcome of this complaint because
Mrs Ts letter of 15 March 2019 shows that she knew the home assistance company was 
chasing payment. She gave a figure of £463.06 which is close to the companys figure of 
£463.07. 
I dont consider that  in May, June or July 2019 - the company did anything to lead Mrs T to 
believe it wasnt pursuing its claim.
Im familiar with the Practice Direction on pre-action conduct and with the protocols.
Mrs T received the solicitors letter dated 28 June 2019. I accept that it contained a business 
name with which she wasnt familiar. But the letter said that if she didnt pay £463.07 then 
there would be court proceedings against her. So Im satisfied that the letter gave enough 
information for Mrs T to understand the claim against her and the basis on which it was 
made. 
Its not for me to say whether the court proceedings were correctly issued and served or 
whether the CCJ was obtained unfairly. There was a court hearing about that on 11 
November 2019. I note that the home assistance company had filed notice of 
discontinuance. It later emailed the court asking for the CCJ to be set aside.
So overall, I dont find Aviva responsible for any unfair debt recovery action by the home 
assistance company. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to do any more in 
response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman