DRN-3294310
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK Plc in relation to a 
chargeback. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In July 2019 Mr F made a series of debit card payments to a cryptocurrency exchange that 
Ill refer to as C. The crypto-currency he purchased was then passed to a broker Ill refer to 
as K. Mr F says K were operating a scam. In September 2019 Mr F contacted Barclays and 
asked that they raise a chargeback for the payments to C. 
Mr Fs account was credited with the amounts that related to the payments in September 
2019. These totalled around £15,000. A few days later, Mr F transferred out and spent that 
money. He says it wasnt made clear to him that the refunds were temporary. When C 
defended the chargeback, the temporary credits were re-debited from Mr Fs account. 
Mr F complained, he says he believed the matter was resolved and that the credits were 
permanent. Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They acknowledged Mr F 
wasnt told on the phone that the credits were temporary. But they said theyd written to him 
shortly afterwards to confirm that was the case. Ultimately Barclays paid Mr F £150 as an 
apology. They also said that theyd allowed temporary credits of around £1,500 to remain in 
Mr Fs account as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. She thought Barclays actions were fair in the 
circumstances. Mr F disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there was anything so unusual about Mr Fs debit card payments to C which 
means I think Barclays ought to have intervened at the time they were made. It also seems 
that Mr F now accepts that C are a legitimate firm and that his chargeback against them 
wouldnt have succeeded. In essence I agree this is the case, it seems that C provided the 
service requested of them, that is they converted Mr Fs money into crypto-currency and 
transferred it to the wallet address he provided. As such I dont think Barclays concluding C 
were entitled to keep the funds and that a chargeback would fail was unreasonable. 
Barclays accept that during a call in September 2019 Mr F wasnt told that the credits to his 
account might be temporary depending on the outcome of the chargeback claim. But 
Barclays have also evidenced that they wrote to Mr F in early September and that these 
letters explained the refunds were pending the outcome of the investigation. The letters are 
correctly addressed. Barclays have explained that their system generates one of these 
letters for each transaction and that in total 16 letters were sent. Some of these relate to an 
undefended chargeback which isnt the subject of this complaint. Mr F says he didnt receive 
any of these letters. 
On balance, I think its most likely that Barclays letters were correctly delivered. I therefore 
think that Barclays informed Mr F in a reasonable time that the credits may only be 
temporary. And whilst I also think that it would have been better practice for this to have 
been made clearer on the phone, I dont think that means that Barclays ought to reimburse 
Mr F with the £15,000 of disputed payments. 
Barclays say that they allowed Mr F to keep payments to the value of around £1,500 as a 
gesture of goodwill along with a £150 compensation payment. I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances. The facts are that Mr F was never entitled to keep the temporary credits.
Barclays did inform Mr F that the credits might be temporary and where there was some 
misunderstanding, I think Barclays have already done enough to compensate for this. So, 
Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman