DRN-2631303
The complaint
 Miss L complains that London General Insurance Company Limited (London General) 
wont replace her damaged iPad with a brand new iPad after she made a claim on her 
added care gadget insurance policy. Miss L has also expressed dissatisfaction with the 
customer service provided by London General
Any reference to London General includes its agents.
What happened
 In June 2020 Miss L made London General aware that her iPad was damaged and needed 
a repair. A claims form was emailed to Miss L. London General say that as Miss L also made
them aware of technical issues with the iPad, her call was transferred through to a third-party
technical support team (B2) to discuss further. An inspection of the device was arranged
through B2 as theyd offered a product guarantee.
In July 2020 B2 contacted London General to update them that following an inspection
of the iPad theyd also identified accidental damage. A further claim form was emailed to
Miss L to find out more details.
London General received the form back, but additional further information
about the claim was requested. In September 2020 London General emailed Miss L to
say that the repair request was authorised and it had now been assigned to a repair
company (B3).
B3 arranged collection of the iPad and Miss L was later told she would be sent a refurbished 
iPad. Miss L says London General asked her if a refurbished iPad was acceptable, rather 
than making it clear there wasnt really a choice.
Miss L was unhappy with being offered a refurbished iPad and made a complaint to London
General London General partially upheld her complaint. They said Miss L should have been 
called back as agreed following a call on 11 September and they offered her £10 
compensation. But they said that as B3 had not deemed the iPad uneconomical to repair, 
they instead offered to replace the iPad with a refurbished model.
Miss L remained unhappy as she wanted a new iPad to replace the damaged one and
referred her complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator upheld her
complaint. She recommended that London General should either provide Miss L with a new
iPad or offer a cash settlement.
London General didnt accept our investigators findings so the complaint was passed
to me for a decision. On 17 February 2021 I sent a provisional decision explaining my 
intended findings based on the evidence. I explained I intended to partially uphold the 
complaint. That is, I found that London General dealt with the claim in line with the policy 
terms and didnt treat Miss L unfairly or unreasonably by offering a refurbished iPad, but that 
they should also pay Miss L £100 for any trouble and upset caused by how theyve handled 
this claim. Miss L responded to my provisional decision, but London General didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Copy of Provisional decision:
 Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Ive also to point
out that although there were three businesses involved in dealing with the damaged iPad at
different points, my decision only considers the actions of London General and their agents
(B3) carrying out the repair. If Miss L remains unhappy with the actions of B2, she has the
option of making a complaint to them  which I understand shes now done.
When coming to my decision the key findings I need to make are:
Have London General acted inline with the policy terms when offering a refurbished
iPad? And;
Have London General treated Miss L fairly and reasonably throughout the claims
process?
Having done so, I have to tell Miss L that Im currently intending to come to a different
outcome to the one reached by our investigator. Ill explain why below.
London General have referred to the policy terms as justification for offering a refurbished
iPad rather than a new one. Miss L says the terms state a refurbished product may be
provided rather than will be provided.
The relevant terms are:
If your Product is uneconomical to repair, we will aim to:
a. Provide you with a replacement of the same make and model; or
b. Provide you with a replacement of a similar specification.
Where a replacement of the same make and model or similar specification is not
available within the original purchase price, we will contact you to discuss an
alternative settlement.
In this case London General have explained that the iPad wasnt deemed uneconomical to
repair - rather the component needed couldnt be sourced. So they offered an equivalent
refurbished iPad. The policy defines refurbished products as:
Where we replace your Product, we may use Grade A refurbished (not brand new
Products). If you receive a refurbished Product from us, this Policy will cover
breakdown claims whilst your policy is active.
Whilst I note Miss Ls point about the use of may in the terms, I cant say that London
General have acted unfairly here by offering an equivalent refurbished model. Ive also noted
that by offering a refurbished iPad, the policy cover continued - so any issues that might
arise would be covered. So, regardless of whether the refurbished iPad was wrongly
positioned as an option by B3 (acting on behalf of London General) or Miss L wrongly
interpreted that there was a choice, I find that London General have acted inline with the
policy terms when considering this claim and offering a refurbished iPad.However, Im not satisfied that London General have treated Miss L fairly and reasonably
throughout  in particular with the time taken to resolve this claim and some of their
communication with her throughout the claims process.
Our investigator pointed out that Miss L relied on and used this iPad perhaps more than the
typical customer given her circumstances. In response to the investigators assessment,
London General stated that at no point were they made aware of Miss Ls circumstances
But Im satisfied that Miss L shared some of this information with London General based on
the evidence provided. According to one of their call notes: Advised lives in [redacted] and
during the pandemic the Ipad is a source of contact for our for the outside world and being
with out is. great inconvenience and quite isolating. And in another note: Advised looking
after two vulnerable people  [redacted] also had an immune deficiency who has a child.
Trying to organise her life and chasing this up whilst working without an iPad is very difficult.
Without going into great detail, due to her personal circumstances and the ongoing
COVID-19 pandemic, Miss L was deprived of something she needed for longer than I
consider reasonable. Miss L has additionally told us about how she used the iPad and Im
satisfied that she did rely quite heavily on it for contact with the outside world and everyday
tasks such as shopping - given the vulnerable nature of the family members she had caring
responsibility for.
Its a positive that London General have accepted their failing with regards to not calling
Miss L as agreed on 11 September 2020 and offering a token gesture, but I intend to direct
London General to pay Miss L £100 in addition to the £10 already paid for the trouble and
upset caused here as a result of their actions. I believe that to be a fair amount relative to
any trouble and upset caused by London General throughout this claims process.
In summary, London General Insurance Company Limited have acted inline with the policy
terms when offering a refurbished iPad. But I intend to partially uphold this complaint and
direct London General Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss L an additional £100 for the
trouble and upset caused.
I appreciate that my intended outcome is unlikely to be the one that either party in this
complaint wanted. But I consider it a fair and reasonable outcome in light of all the evidence
Ive seen.
Ive then carefully considered Miss Ls responses before reaching my final decision. Whilst 
the responses from Miss L dont change the outcome Ive reached, for completeness Ive 
addressed her key responses below and also included a copy of my provisional decision 
above as the findings in it form part of my final decision here.
Miss L has said that she doesnt believe that the cost quoted for repair doesnt deem the 
iPad uneconomical to repair. The policy terms refer to: ..we will repair your product where 
possible. This wasnt possible in Miss Ls case as the necessary parts couldnt be sourced. 
The next part of the terms are relevant when a product is deemed to be uneconomical to 
repair. B3 didnt deem the iPad uneconomical to repair and they are the repair experts here. 
As explained, the necessary parts for the repair couldnt be sourced at that time. However, 
even if I considered a scenario where I agreed with Miss L that the iPad was uneconomical 
to repair, nowhere in the policy terms does it clearly say that a new product will be provided 
as a replacement. 
The terms refer to a replacement of the same make and model; or.a replacement of a 
similar specification This is further explained in step three of the claims process where the policy states: If your claim is accepted, your Product will be repaired or replaced in line 
with these terms and further; Where we replace your product, we may use Grade A 
refurbished (not brand new Products).  So, regardless of whether it was or was not 
uneconomical to repair, London General can - in this particular case, under this policy, fairly 
offer an equivalent refurbished model. I know Miss L doesnt agree with this, but I find that 
London General have fairly applied the policy terms here. 
I did also note the comments already on file about the iPad being bent. The photos provided 
are useful for context, but as a refurbished replacement iPad was offered for the damaged 
iPad being claimed for, this doesnt change my decision. 
Miss L has referred to the London General being made aware of her personal circumstances 
and the importance of the iPad to her. I agreed with Miss L in my provisional decision and 
pointed out that London General were made aware of some of her circumstances on more 
than one occasion. Because I wasnt satisfied they then properly considered her 
circumstances when dealing with the claim and treated her fairly and reasonably, I awarded 
£100 compensation. Miss L has broken this down to approximately £13 for each month she 
didnt have the iPad. 
But as explained in my provisional decision, Im only considering the actions of London 
General (B1) and their appointed repairer (B3) here and the impact of their actions on 
Miss L. In short, I cant and wont direct London General to pay compensation for any action 
B2 took that may have negatively affected Miss Ls experience.
In coming to the figure of £100 Ive also had to keep in mind that London General did offer 
the refurbished iPad around September 2020 and this was declined by Miss L. Ive also seen 
a system note from November 2020 where its been recorded that Miss L told the business 
that she wanted the iPad to stay with B3 whilst our service were investigating her complaint. 
Additionally, in a call with our service on 16 November 2020, our investigator told Miss L that 
she could accept the refurbished iPad whilst our investigation was ongoing or she could wait. 
Miss L said she would think about it. If Miss L decided to wait, I cant hold London General 
responsible for a further delay in her getting an iPad back. 
So although she has my sympathy for being without the device for so long 
 particularly with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, some of this time period was because 
she wasnt prepared to accept the refurbished iPad. 
To give some context, had London General for example completely declined this claim and I 
later concluded that they hadnt properly considered the claim, then Id possibly consider that 
they deprived Miss L of use of her device for longer than was necessary - and Id consider 
awarding a higher amount of compensation. But in Miss Ls case Ive ultimately found that 
they did fairly consider the claim inline with the policy terms - but it was her that was 
unhappy with the refurbished iPad being offered. I consider £100 a fair, reasonable and 
proportionate award here relative to the trouble and upset caused. Miss L should speak to 
London General about accepting the refurbished iPad if she wishes.
 
So, having carefully considered Miss Ls response, Ive still found that London General did 
offer to settle the claim inline with the policy terms by offering a refurbished iPad, but I direct 
them to pay Miss L £100 for the trouble and upset caused by how they handled her claim 
overall. 
Putting things right
 London General Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss L £100 as compensation for 
any trouble and upset caused by how theyve handled this claim overall.My final decision
 My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. London General Insurance 
Company Limited should now follow my direction as set out under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman