DRN-3375991
The complaint
Mr C complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (Bupa) turned down his private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C was covered under his former employers private medical insurance group scheme with 
Bupa. When he changed jobs, he took out an individual policy with Bupa on a continued 
personal medical exclusions basis. The individual policy started on 27 February 2021.
Mr C then made a claim under the policy for investigations he required. Bupa turned down 
the claim. It thought Mr C had misrepresented relevant information when he took out the 
policy. Bupa said if it had known that information, it wouldve charged Mr C a higher 
premium. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Meanwhile, he 
cancelled his Bupa cover.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Bupa shouldve paid a 
proportion of the claim rather than turn down the claim. Our investigator recommended that 
Bupa settle the claim in this way, and add interest.
Bupa didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the case in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. 
Mr C took out the policy through a broker. I havent seen evidence of the medical questions 
initially asked of the broker. However, Bupa emailed the broker and said its records showed 
that Mr C had made recent claims (under the group scheme). It asked the broker to confirm 
with Mr C that he had answered no to the below medical question correctly.
Does the person to be covered have ANY planned or pending investigations, treatment, 
surgery, for any condition or symptom? (This applies whether the treatment is planned 
privately or under the NHS)
Im satisfied this was a clear question. The broker responded and confirmed that Mr C had 
nothing planned or pending, so could answer no to this question. 
I see that Mr C had a consultation with a specialist in January 2021 after experiencing 
respiratory symptoms since December 2020. He then had investigations in January and 
February 2021 and was given treatment. 
Mr C accepts that he needed further check-ups after receiving treatment in January and 
February 2021. He says he made an appointment with his specialist and visited him on 5 
March 2021. 
I dont know when Mr C made the appointment with his specialist. However, given that Mr C 
doesnt dispute that he knew he required those further check-ups when he took out the 
policy, I think he shouldve answered yes to the question. I therefore agree with Bupa that 
Mr C didnt take reasonable care when answering the question, and so there was 
misrepresentation.
Mr C says that Bupa was aware of his treatment, as it had all the details on file. However, as 
Bupa has explained, it asks medical questions when someone transfers from a group 
scheme to an individual policy in order to assess the risk they present (and therefore the 
premium to charge). I therefore wouldnt have expected Bupa to have known the answer to 
the question shouldve been yes. Bupa did notice that Mr C had made recent claims for 
treatment, and did double check that his answer to the relevant question was no. This was 
confirmed by Mr Cs broker on his behalf. 
Having said that, I accept that Mr C wasnt trying to deliberately mislead Bupa and that the 
misrepresentation was careless. I note that Bupa also accepts this.
Bupa has confirmed that if Mr C had answered yes to the question, then it wouldve charged 
him a higher premium. That means the misrepresentation was qualifying, under CIDRA. 
CIDRA explains that in such circumstances, an insurer may reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid on a claim. I agree with our investigator that Bupa should settle the claim 
in this way. Therefore, the claim payment Mr C receives from Bupa will depend on the 
proportion of the premium that he actually paid, compared to the premium he should have 
paid. 
Bupa says that because Mr C paid the lower premium, his claim isnt covered because this is 
against its rules. However, Im satisfied that CIDRA (as the relevant law on 
misrepresentation) takes priority over Bupas internal rules.
Bupa says that an alternative option could be for it to offer Mr C to change his answer 
retrospectively to the question, and then pay the correct premium from the date his cover 
started. He would then be eligible to claim in full for any treatment. Though I note Bupa says 
this offer would be subject to Mr C reinstating his cover, and so he would need to pay the 
backdated premiums due since his cancellation.
CIDRA doesnt give an insurer the right to charge a higher premium. However, where an 
insurer wishes to make this offer and a consumer wants to accept it, then that will be up to 
the two parties. Therefore, if Mr C doesnt wish to accept my decision and would instead 
prefer to accept Bupas offer, he can contact Bupa directly about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to settle 
Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms, but reduce proportionately the claim 
amount. *Interest at the rate of 8% simple should be added from the date of claim to the date 
of settlement.*If Bupa considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman