DRN-1084614
The complaint
Mr B complains U K Insurance Limited wrote his car off after initially telling him it would be 
repaired. Hes also unhappy his personal injury claim wasnt processed correctly and that the 
garage appointed by U K Insurance took longer to contact him than he was told.
What happened
Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident. When he notified his insurer, U K Insurance, the 
call handler told him his vehicle would be repaired. But after inspection, U K Insurance 
deemed the vehicle beyond economical repair and that it should be written off.
Mr B complained to U K Insurance. He said finding out his car would not be repaired caused 
him a considerable amount of distress and anxiety. Mr B believes U K Insurance should 
honour what theyd originally told him, and his car should have been repaired. He was also 
unhappy U K Insurance had told him theyd no record of a personal injury claim hed raised 
before later finding and submitting his claim eight days later.
U K Insurance acknowledged an error had been made when one of their call handlers told 
Mr B his car would be repaired. But they said this was before the level of damage had been 
assessed. And, after his vehicle was inspected by their engineer it was deemed a total loss 
and the decision for it to be written off was correctly made. U K Insurance also 
acknowledged Mr Bs personal injury claim had not been raised correctly with the relevant 
department and this had caused a delay. 
U K Insurance offered Mr B £100 by way of an apology for the inconvenience and upset their 
errors had caused. But Mr B remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things. She agreed mistakes had been made by U K 
Insurance and that Mr B had been given misleading information. But she felt the amount of 
compensation offered was fair. And whilst she acknowledged Mr B had been mistakenly told 
his car would be repaired, after assessing the damage U K Insurance had decided the car 
was beyond economical repair so she couldnt ask them to repair it.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said the errors made by U K Insurance caused him 
to be prescribed anti-depressants and to seek counselling. He didnt think the compensation 
offered reflected this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint  so its come to 
me.
I emailed both Mr B and U K Insurance to let them know my initial thoughts. I asked if either 
party had any further information, they wanted me to consider. U K Insurance confirmed they 
had nothing further to add. Ive not received a response from Mr B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint  Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed Mr B was led to believe when he first contacted U K Insurance that his car 
would be repaired and that the garage would be in touch sooner. U K Insurance have 
accepted Mr B was given misleading information and theyve apologised for this. 
But the call handler Mr B initially spoke to passed comment on his vehicle being repaired 
before U K Insurance had had the opportunity to assess the damage. The terms of Mr Bs 
policy state if your car is damaged, we have the option to: replace what is lost or damaged, 
if this is more cost-effective that repairing it. And ultimately, after it was assessed, Mr Bs 
vehicle was deemed beyond economical repair. I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer 
to assess a vehicle before they can decide how to proceed. So whilst I understand Mr B had 
been given incorrect information, I think U K Insurance have applied the term fairly on this 
occasion.
So, Im next going to focus on the impact of U K Insurances errors on Mr B.
Mr B told our investigator finding out his car was being written off, not repaired, caused him 
to seek medical advice for anxiety. And led to him being prescribed anti-depressants and to 
seek counselling.
Its clear to me Mr B has suffered a considerable amount of upset and distress as a result of 
the accident and the events that followed it. In addition to the impact on his mental health,  
Mr B suffered whiplash and for a period was unable to work.
Im in no doubt that the accident and injuries Mr B suffered as a result of his accident will 
have led to a distressing experience for him, no doubt compounded by the errors U K 
Insurance made. But its important for me to say I cant hold U K Insurance responsible for 
the original accident. So, its for me to decide what fairly takes the impact of U K Insurance's 
errors alone on Mr B into account.
Mr B has provided our service a lot of evidence relating to his health and medical condition 
in the period following the accident. And whilst its important to say Im not a medical 
professional, Ive looked at this in detail and considered everything hes provided.
The documentation Ive seen shows Mr B received treatment and medication for whiplash 
following the road traffic accident he was involved in. The statement of fitness for work also 
sites Mr Bs whiplash injury as the reason for him being unable to work. 
I accept that being involved in an accident is likely to have caused Mr B some mental 
anxiety. And that he did and continues to suffer mentally. But I cant safely conclude Mr Bs 
mental health issues were caused as a direct result of the errors make by U K Insurances. I 
say this because when writing a timeline of the events that occurred, whilst Mr B said his 
stress levels went through the roof when he found out his car was being written off, he also 
mentioned this was as a result of him having both whiplash and as a result of him taking 
antidepressants due to him suffering from a severe lack of sleep.
I also understand Mr Bs concern regarding his personal injury claim not being processed 
had he not chased it. But thankfully he did and its simply not possible for me to know how 
long it might have taken otherwise. I can see once it was brought to their attention, U K 
Insurance progressed it promptly and I dont think they need to do anything further in this 
respect.So, for the reasons Ive mentioned above, whilst I have sympathy for the impact the accident 
has had on Mr B, Im satisfied £100 is fair compensation for the additional inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of U K Insurances errors.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman