DRN-2860490
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about a lifetime mortgage she holds with Aviva Equity Release UK 
Limited.  She believes that Aviva should have told her about the opportunity to re-mortgage 
and reduce the interest rate she was paying when an early repayment charge (ERC) was no 
longer payable in 2016. 
Mrs L is represented in her complaint by a relative, but for ease I will refer to all comments 
made as being Mrs Ls.
What happened
Mrs L took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2002. The mortgage was for around £30,000 
and designed to last until her death or move to long-term care. A fixed interest rate of 7.55% 
was attached to the mortgage for its lifetime. An ERC was payable on the mortgage for the 
first fourteen years. After that, Mrs L could have re-mortgaged without paying an ERC.
At the time of the sale, Mrs L appears to have already decided to purchase a retirement 
property for £120,000. She was retired at that time and living on a modest pension income. 
She had an existing property which was being sold for slightly less than £90,000, had other 
assets (such as jewellery and antiques) of £10,000 and some savings, but the amount isnt 
known. It was detailed that she needed financial assistance to purchase the property she 
wanted.
After Mrs L made her application, she decided to buy a different property for £125,000. Mrs L 
had to complete a new application and a new illustration was produced for her. When the 
application was made, it was confirmed that Mrs L had £4,500 left in savings and wanted to 
keep that money as her emergency fund. 
In 2020 Mrs L complained about the advice to take the mortgage and its subsequent 
administration. Mrs Ls said that she had sufficient savings in 2002 to complete the property 
purchase sale without taking out the mortgage  so it wasnt needed. In addition, she 
questioned why she wasnt told to get independent advice before taking the mortgage. It was 
also confirmed that two of Mrs Ls three children had said they knew nothing about the 
mortgage and believe the third child had been the driving force behind it. Furthermore, she 
asked why, in 2016 when there was no longer an ERC associated with the mortgage, Aviva 
didnt suggest she look at alternative mortgages to reduce the interest rate she was paying.
Aviva responded to the complaint about the suitability of the sale. It explained what a lifetime 
mortgage was, how one worked and what the sales process was. It confirmed that while it 
recommended that its customers discuss their plans with their family, it couldnt make them 
do so. Aviva then said the documentation from 2002 confirmed that Mrs L had received 
assistance from one of her children when dealing with Aviva. It was explained that she was 
looking to buy a retirement property and wanted to retain some of her capital when doing so. 
Aviva was satisfied that Mrs L was given information about the effects of the interest rolling 
up over the years and that this would erode the equity in the property. Aviva highlighted that 
Mrs L had been made aware that the interest rate on the mortgage was fixed on the day the 
advance was made.
In addition, in relation to the amount of the loan advanced, Aviva said that when Mrs L 
changed the property she wanted to buy, she had applied for a larger mortgage. When doing 
so she had confirmed that the mortgage was to top up funds for the purchase. A new 
illustration was issued showing what the debt would increase to over the years. Mrs L then 
received an independent explanation of the mortgage from a solicitor, to ensure that she 
understood it and the implications of taking it out. Aviva was satisfied its review of the point 
of sale documentation showed that the mortgage was suitable and it told Mrs L that it wasnt 
upholding her complaint.
Mrs L wrote back to Aviva and said that she didnt understand why, when an ERC no longer 
needed to be paid on the mortgage, Aviva didnt proactively review the mortgage. She said 
that surely the lifetime mortgage industry should take better care of its customers and their 
families, and not just be focused on how much money it can make at the expense of its 
customers families. She said that Aviva could have reviewed her complaint and situation 
more compassionately; for instance, it could have offered to reduce the interest rate to a 
lower one and back date it to 2016, as though shed re-mortgaged at that time. Mrs L asked 
Aviva to reconsider its decision.
Aviva responded by explaining that its customers are aware from the outset about the 
long-term nature of the mortgage and that interest is added to the loan from the date the 
mortgage starts to the date its repaid. It explained that repayment usually happens as a 
result of the property being sold on death or a move to long term care. It said if a customer 
doesnt find the interest rate acceptable, they dont have to take the mortgage out. Aviva also 
confirmed that it doesnt review mortgages automatically, although it had in the past if asked 
to. It said that if Mrs L remained unhappy with its response to the complaint, she should refer 
the complaint to this service. 
Mrs L subsequently asked that the mortgage be reviewed and the interest rate be reduced. 
She also wanted the reduction back dated to 2016, which is when the period an ERC ceased 
to be payable ended.
Aviva confirmed that it no longer provided mortgage advice and so couldnt conduct a review 
of Mrs Ls mortgage. It suggested that she consult an independent financial adviser or 
contact the Money Advice Service. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with Avivas suggestion as she considered she wouldnt be able to get 
an alternative mortgage elsewhere because the mortgage represented around 75% of the 
value of the property. She said what she wanted was for Aviva to reduce the interest rate 
because the rate being paid on the mortgage was excessive. 
Aviva said the mortgage was arranged with a fixed interest rate and thats what Mrs L had 
agreed to when shed signed the contract. It said Mrs L would need to switch to another 
mortgage to reduce the interest rate.
The complaint was referred to this service. It was confirmed that Mrs L didnt want to pursue 
the part of the complaint in relation to the mortgage not having been needed, as she 
believed there were insufficient grounds to pursue it, given that the son who had helped her 
arrange the mortgage had died and so couldnt provide input. Mrs L wanted us to look into 
her concerns about Avivas lack of action in 2016. However, when Mrs Ls representative 
discussed the complaint with our investigator, it was confirmed that Mrs L wanted the 
mis-sale complaint considered as well. The investigator confirmed what his understanding of 
the complaint was and Mrs Ls representative said he had understood it correctly.Our investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think there was anything wrong with the advice Mrs L had been given  there was a shortfall 
between the amount Mrs L was selling her existing property for and the amount she needed 
to buy the new one. The mortgage helped her to achieve her objective and it was acceptable 
for her to want to keep some funds available for other uses. In relation to the adviser not 
telling Mrs L to seek independent advice, he explained that all the regulator required of the 
adviser was that he explained he was tied to Aviva and could only recommend its products. 
In addition, there was no requirement for a lender to remind a consumer they could 
re-mortgage their home. Furthermore, the investigator was satisfied that it was made clear to 
Mrs L that the interest rate was fixed and would apply throughout the time the mortgage 
existed. 
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She highlighted the original complaint 
referral where shed asked that only the complaint about Avivas lack of action in 2016 be 
considered by this service. She was unhappy that the investigator had only addressed the 
actual complaint in passing. Mrs L went on to say that she thought Aviva was applying unfair 
practices and discriminating against long-standing, vulnerable customers, by expecting them 
to remember the point that they could re-mortgage ERC free. She believes Aviva not 
reminding her of this fact at the appropriate point constitutes treating her unfairly and 
financially penalising her.
Our investigator confirmed that hed covered the entire complaint that had been made to 
Aviva for completeness. He highlighted what hed said about the interest rate and the end of 
the ERC period. He also considered that the documentation from the time of the sale set out 
situations where the mortgage could end early and so he was satisfied that Mrs L knew there 
were options open to her other than keeping the mortgage. He reiterated that there had been 
no onus on Aviva to remind Mrs L of when she could re-mortgage charge free or to provide 
her with financial advice of any sort. If she wanted such advice, she would have needed to 
seek it out. Aviva was required to set out the terms of the contract at the beginning, which it 
did, and its role thereafter was to administer the mortgage properly in line with the terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs L remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ls mortgage doesnt contain the option for her to change the interest rate thats applied 
to it. I consider this was made clear before Mrs L took the mortgage. However, if a borrower 
isnt happy with the interest rate thats being charged on a mortgage, they might have the 
option to re-mortgage to a different mortgage and/or lender. If an ERC only applies for a set 
number of years, the obvious time to look at whether to re-mortgage, would be at the end of 
the ERC period. Mrs L thinks that by not prompting her about the end of the ERC, Aviva 
didnt treat her fairly and its discriminating against vulnerable customers.
In relation to the latter point, as our investigator explained, Aviva should only treat a 
consumer as vulnerable if they actually are. It wouldnt be appropriate for Aviva to treat all 
elderly customers as vulnerable, as they may not be. In this case, the evidence I have been 
presented with doesnt suggest Aviva was told Mrs L was vulnerable or that she is. Nor does 
that evidence indicate Aviva is discriminating against vulnerable customers generally. 
As for whether Aviva is treating its customers fairly, I have considered that carefully. The fact 
that a consumer has reached a point in time where they can re-mortgage ERC free is not something a lender is required to highlight to its customers. I dont think that its unfair for it 
not to do so. I say this as the nature of the mortgages Aviva provides are designed to run for 
a customers lifetime and that is the basis the customer takes one out on. They are not like a 
conventional mortgage where customers regularly make changes and even move lenders. A 
customer takes a lifetime mortgage on the assumption they are going to have it until death or 
the point where they can no longer live in the property. There is a negative equity guarantee 
that means even if the mortgage erodes all the equity in the property, the customer can stay 
in the property as long as they want or need to. So remaining on a higher interest rate than 
might be available on new lifetime mortgages, wouldnt affect a borrower while they were 
living in their home. 
That said, the documentation from the time of the sale does explain that a borrower can 
leave the mortgage if they no longer want it, and when that will happen automatically. I note 
Mrs Ls representative has said that its not reasonable for Aviva to expect her to have 
remembered details from the time of the sale. I would reiterate my comment above, in that it 
would be inappropriate for Aviva to make assumptions about its customers circumstances or 
abilities without evidence. As such, if Mrs L felt that she needed further assistance with her 
financial arrangements, it was for her to seek out that assistance, rather than Aviva imposing 
it on her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 
10 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman