DRN-3575871
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on a 
home insurance property.
Mrs M has been represented in her correspondence with our service by her son, Mr M. For 
ease of reference, where I refer to Mrs M within this decision this should be taken to include 
Mr M.
What happened
Mrs M insures a property with Ageas. She was made aware by a friend of staining to a 
ceiling and it was concluded that the cause of this was that water had entered through the 
roof. 
Mrs M made a claim on her insurance policy. Ageas reviewed the claim, including sending a 
representative to inspect the damage and concluded that the policy cover didnt extend to 
this damage. It said that there was no obvious storm which had caused damage to the roof 
and that damage to the roof was more consistent with wear and tear.
Mrs M complained to Ageas and when it rejected her complaint, contacted our service. Our 
investigator thought that Ageas had fairly declined cover and so hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mrs M didnt agree, and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms policy outlines the circumstances in which cover will be provided. When making an 
insurance claim, the onus is on a policy holder to show that the circumstances of their claim 
correspond to one of the sections of cover or insured perils. If an insurer seeks to rely on an 
exclusion, the onus is on the insurer to show that the exclusion can fairly apply to the 
circumstances provided.
What that means in this case is that Mrs M needs to demonstrate that the circumstances in 
which the damage occurred are covered by the policy. It seems to be agreed by both parties 
that the circumstances of the claim mean that this matter should be considered under the 
storm section of the policy.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy define a storm as: 
Strong winds of 48 knots/55mph or more, sometimes accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
Heavy or persistent rain or snow alone does not constitute storm unless the rain or snow is 
extreme that damage is caused to well maintained properties or adequately designed 
construction.
Our service has a general approach to complaints about storm damage claims. We consider 
three questions:
1) Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage occurred?
2) Is the damage consistent with what would be expected in a storm?
3) Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
We consider each of these questions in turn  meaning that if the weather conditions at the 
time of the damage didnt amount to a storm, we wont consider the remaining questions.
A period of bad weather which did amount to storm conditions, as defined by Mrs Ms policy, 
occurred at Mrs Ms property. This is accepted by Ageas. 
However, the evidence of Mrs M is that this occurred after the damage to the ceiling was first 
noted. Mrs M says that the staining to the ceiling was presumably present for some time 
before it was noticed, and that weather conditions in the weeks prior to the damage being 
noticed were also poor. Ive not been provided any evidence to suggest that there were 
storm conditions (as defined by the policy) in the weeks before the damage occurred, and no 
specific incident of storm conditions has been highlighted as likely causing the damage.
Ive noted the comments of a roofer who attended Mrs Ms property. They considered that 
the damage had been caused by high winds. Ive considered whether this is damage that 
occurred during the identified storm conditions(which happened after the ceiling damage 
was noticed).
Im not sure I can safely conclude this. I say this because it seems to be accepted that, in 
order for the water to enter the property in order to cause the ceiling damage, it would have 
had to come through the roof  so there would need to have been damage to the roof prior 
to the storm. I think that its more likely than not that the damage noted by the roofer 
occurred before the storm. Ageas representatives who inspected the roof attributed the 
damage to the roof to wear and tear, rather than storm damage, and I havent seen anything 
which persuades me this conclusion is flawed.
So I think it was fair for Ageas to conclude that no storm had occurred prior to the damage. 
Ive no doubt that there were storms at the property over time, but no specific storm has 
been identified which caused this damage. As I said above, its Mrs Ms duty to show that a 
storm has occurred. As she hasnt been able to, Im unable to say Ageas acted 
unreasonably when it declined cover for the claim
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman