DRN-3323535
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) declined his claim.   
Any reference to Lloyds includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr A was employed as a pilot and became a member of the Express & Airlines Pilots 
Association (EAPA). In March 2016 he enlisted onto a Professional Pilots Loss of Income 
Protection Plan which would provide cover if he suffered an illness that resulted in total 
disability and he was unable to work. The policy was underwritten by Lloyds.
On 8 August 2019, Mr A had an operation on his ankle joint leaving him unable to return to 
work for a period of time. He then had a second operation on the same ankle, and he was 
unable to return to work permanently. His employment with the airline was terminated.
Mr A submitted a total disability claim.  Lloyds declined the claim because the medical 
evidence said Mr A had first consulted about the problem on 30 July 2018. They said the 
policy only covers total disability that occurred within 365 days from when it first started. Mr 
As consultant recorded his total disablement on 7 August 2019 which is more than 365 days 
after he was first seen for the condition, so the claim wasnt covered. 
Lloyds also said Mr As condition was pre-existing which meant the claim would be excluded. 
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as any condition which medical advice or 
treatment was recommended or received within the 30-month period preceding the policy 
inception date.
Mr A said his surgery was carried out 374 days after his initial consultation. He explained 
hed tried other treatment methods before surgery was arranged as a last resort. So he felt it 
was unreasonable for the claim to be declined on the basis he was outside the 365 days.
He also disagreed the condition should be treated as pre-existing when his policy was 
incepted in March 2016 and he didnt consult a specialist until July 2018  which is after the 
policy was taken out. But Lloyds said when the policy was renewed in March 2019, Mr A 
completed a renewal form and was told the policy was not a continuous contract. So the 
inception date of the policy Mr A was claiming under was 1 March 2019. So his condition 
that begun in 2018 was pre-existing. 
Mr A remined unhappy so he referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked at 
what had happened and said Lloyds had fairly declined Mr As claim in line with the terms of 
his policy. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said pilots pay high rate premiums for this insurance as a form of 
financial security for themselves and their families. And they werent made aware of the 
restrictive clauses in the policy. He now thinks he wouldnt ever have been able to claim 
under the policy so hes unhappy about the sale and that Lloyds collected a premium for a 
worthless product. 
So the case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say the insurer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  I think its reasonable 
to take those into account when deciding this case 
Mr As policy covers a percentage of his income if a sickness resulting in total disability 
prevents him from performing the major duties pertaining to his occupation. The policy terms 
and conditions define sickness as:
Sickness means a sickness or disease which first manifests itself while this policy is in 
force. It must result, directly and independently of all other causes, in Total Disability within 
365 days from the date of such first manifestation.
So, the sickness Mr A is claiming for must result in total disability within 365 days from the 
date of such manifestation.
Mr A has explained he was trying different treatment options prior to undergoing surgery, as 
a last resort, in August 2019. However, the policy clearly states that the total disability must 
occur within 365 days of the condition first manifesting itself. Mr A has confirmed that his 
symptoms first started on 10 February 2018 and he was first seen by a specialist on 30 July 
2018. Mr As consultant has confirmed that he became totally disabled immediately prior to 
the surgery on 7 August 2019. So the medical evidence shows Mr As condition manifested 
itself more than 365 days before the total disability date. 
I can of course understand why Mr A wanted to try other options prior to undergoing surgery, 
but this policy only provides cover for total disablement that occurred within a specific 
timeframe. Given the time that had passed between Mr As symptoms first starting in 
February 2018 and the total disablement in August 2019, I dont think it was unfair of Lloyds 
to apply this term and decline cover. 
Lloyds also said Mr As condition would be treated as pre-existing following the renewal in 
2019. Mr A disagrees. However, I dont need to make a finding on this because even if Mr A 
is correct, his condition didnt result in total disability within 365 of manifestation. So the 
claim wouldnt be covered in any event. 
Mr A has made reference to being unhappy about the sale of the policy because he wasnt 
told about the exclusions and limitations to the cover. But this is isnt something I can 
consider. He would need to raise these concerns with the seller and pursue them as a 
separate complaint. This case is solely about the insurers decision to decline Mr As claim. 
Mr A is unhappy Lloyds collected his premium, but the insurer would have paid out for a 
claim for an illness that started and resulted in total disability within 365 days, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. So Lloyds were on risk from the date Mr A took out the policy, 
until it was stopped, so it wouldnt be fair to ask them to refund any premiums.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr A, but I dont think there are reasonable grounds upon 
which I could ask the insurer to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman