DRN-3843988
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with Neteller Financial Services Limited (trading as Neteller) decision to 
close her account and retain her funds.
What happened
In July 2020, Ms K opened an account with Neteller and made deposits into it. In August 
2020, Neteller conducted a review of Ms Ks account. Following the review, Neteller decided 
to close Ms Ks account with immediate effect. At the time Ms Ks balance was just under 
$3,500 USD.
Neteller asked Ms K to provide a bank statement, ID document and a selfie photograph as 
part of its verification process, so that it could return Ms Ks balance. The documents Ms K 
provided failed that verification check. 
Neteller asked Ms K to provide further documents, which she did between October 2020 and 
April 2021. However, all the paperwork Ms K provided failed to meet Netellers verification 
criteria. So Neteller didnt release Ms Ks balance.
Ms K was unhappy about the actions taken by Neteller so she referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by one of our investigators who said Neteller hadnt done anything 
wrong. Ms K disagreed. She says shes submitted various documents including bank 
statements and doesnt understand why Neteller wont release the money in the account to 
her. She says she needs the money to pay medical bills and wants the money in her account 
released back to her.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything,  I dont think that Neteller have treated Ms K unfairly 
and so I am not upholding her complaint. And Ill explain why.
Ill deal first with Netellers decision to close Ms Ks account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has 
had their account closed.
I know Ms K is upset that Neteller closed her account. But having looked at all the 
information available to me, including Netellers actions and the information its provided Im 
satisfied that Neteller had sufficient grounds to close Ms Ks account and did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of her account when it closed the account. So, I cant say Neteller 
has treated Ms K unfairly.
The crux of Ms Ks complaint is that she wants the funds in her account, which is just under 
$3,400 USD returned to her. In order to release the funds Ms K has to complete Netellers 
verification process. Neteller has these process in place in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Neteller has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I 
accept that it was. So, I cant say Neteller have done anything wrong by asking Ms K for 
information and withholding the funds. 
I appreciate that Ms K has supplied Neteller with a number of documents over a period of 
months. And that not having access to the funds has caused her inconvenience and upset. 
But I can also see that Neteller has told Ms K what she needs to provide in order for the 
funds to be released to her. Neteller has also confirmed that the documents provided by 
Ms K to date arent acceptable. So, its up to Ms K to now provide the information necessary 
in order to be sent the funds. And Im not going to ask Neteller to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman