DRN-2375226
The complaint
Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In October 1992 Mrs H took out a PPI policy to protect her monthly repayments on a store 
card. 
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1.00 each month for every £100.00 Mrs H owed 
on her card. 
The PPI couldve covered Mrs H if she was off work sick or if she lost her job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. It would pay 15% of the statement balance outstanding at the start of 
the claim each month Mrs H successfully claimed. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, Im planning to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was taken out during a telephone call some years after Mrs H applied and was 
accepted for the original store card account. 
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs H clear enough information about the policy to enable 
her to decide if she should take it out.
I havent seen enough to make me think AXA gave Mrs H clear enough information about 
the policy. Theres no call recording and I cant be sure what was said during the call. But 
I dont think its very likely that the policys true cost and benefits were explained clearly 
enough to allow Mrs H to work out whether PPI offered her any useful benefit that it wouldve 
been worthwhile for her to buy. 
I say this because although Mrs H may have known the cost was likely to be around £1.00 
per £100 of the outstanding balance on the card, I dont know how likely it is that AXA 
explained the premium shed pay for PPI would be added to the card balance and could 
attract interest. And it isnt clear if AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 
15% in real terms as Mrs H would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the 
policy benefit.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs H because she told us that she wouldve received 
12 months full sick pay. 
I think its fair to say that, generally speaking, this wouldve been an unusually generous 
amount of sick pay. And Mrs H hasnt been able to send us anything to show us shes right 
about this. But thats unsurprising after so long. And I dont think its unreasonable to accept 
what Mrs H has told us about this in the particular circumstances of this case. 
Heres why I say this.
Mrs H says she specifically recalls the amount of sick pay as it seemed generous to her 
at the time and far better than anything she had come across in the UK.  
Given that Mrs H worked in a management role for a non-UK based company, in what was a 
competitive and booming business sector at the time, I think its quite likely Mrs H was 
offered above average terms and conditions at the time. 
In coming to my view, I've also taken into account that its possible Mrs H may have provided 
some inconsistent sick pay information. 
Looking at the note AXA made when it asked Mrs H about her sick pay, it looks like she also 
told AXA she was entitled to 12 months sick pay but that she wouldve only received half pay 
for the last 6 months.
To my mind, thats not a reason not to uphold her complaint. 
I think its completely understandable that when specifically asked by the adjudicator to 
confirm her sick pay, and with the opportunity to reflect on this, Mrs H has correctly 
remembered how much sick pay she couldve relied on getting.
And even if there were a question mark about the exact terms of her sick pay, Ive seen 
nothing to make me think its likely that Mrs H wouldve had less than 6 months full sick pay. 
So, given that Mrs H also mentioned having at least 6 months worth of her salary in savings 
at the time, which Ive no reason to think isnt plausible, then I think Mrs H couldve managed 
without the PPI for long enough not to really need it.  
Mrs H told us that the PPI wasnt something she wanted or needed. And Im mindful that 
shed held her store card for nearly ten years without any PPI. 
So, if Mrs H had understood what shed get for her money in the event of a successful claim, 
its hard to see how a policy that looks like it offered her such limited value wouldve been 
something she wanted. 
And I dont think Mrs H wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her enough information 
about the cost and benefits to make an informed decision. 
So, I think Mrs H has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs H accepts what I've said in my provisional decision.  
AXA has confimred it has no further information and that the case can be sent for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
It looks like the store card has been closed. So heres what AXA should do.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs H would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs H what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs H that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mrs H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman