DRN-3684043
The complaint
Mrs H complained about Exeter Friendly Society Limiteds (The Exeter) service under her 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H had a private medical insurance policy for many years, the insurer at the relevant time 
was The Exeter. In summer 2021 Mrs H had minor medical treatment privately. The Exeter 
accepted the claim and paid the first costs claimed but the private hospital then charged 
Mrs H £171 instead of charging The Exeter. The private hospital wrote to Mrs H that it 
couldnt find an active policy under the details shed provided. The private hospital said the 
first name it had for Mrs H looked to be different to the name under which she had insurance 
and asked her to provide her correct details if it had the wrong details.
On 1 August 2021 Mrs H emailed the private hospital giving information about her name, 
which she said shed given the hospital from the outset, and saying she would call it the  
next day to get its proposals for refunding her. Mrs H copied The Exeter into the email and 
received its automatic response saying it would respond within one working day.
Mrs H didnt pay her 1 August 2021 policy premium. On 2 August 2021 The Exeter wrote to 
Mrs H saying her premium was overdue. Mrs H didnt contact The Exeter in response. But 
she told us she didnt pay as it had poorly handled her claim and she was waiting for it to 
respond to her 1 August 2021 email, which it didnt. On 24 August 2021 she emailed the 
private hospital chasing a response and copied in The Exeter. Ultimately she provided the 
identification documents the private hospital asked for and it refunded her. 
On 4 December 2021 The Exeter wrote to Mrs H again about her outstanding premiums. It 
said she may be able to reinstate her policy but she needed to complete a declaration of 
health for it to consider if it would continue cover and if so she needed to pay the outstanding 
premiums. On 17 December 2021 Mrs H responded saying she cancelled the premiums 
from August as due to its poor administration of the claim she didnt want to deal with it. She 
told The Exeter she had emergency surgery on the NHS in June 2021 and now needed 
further surgery which shed decided to pay for to avoid NHS delays. Mrs H told The Exeter 
that due to its poor service she was without private medical insurance.
On 14 January 2022 The Exeter apologised to Mrs H that it hadnt responded sooner to her 
complaint of 17 December. Mrs H then said she was looking to reinstate her cover but 
wanted to wait for The Exeters response to her complaint before deciding what to do. During 
the complaint process Mrs H said she considered her 1 August 2021 email to the private 
hospital to be a complaint to The Exeter.
The Exeter didnt accept Mrs Hs 1 August 2021 email was a complaint with it. It said 
although it hadnt responded to Mrs Hs complaint in December 2021 within its own 
timescales that hadnt disadvantaged her as by then she already had four months premiums 
overdue. The Exeter was still prepared to consider the continuation of the policy but said 
Mrs H needed to first complete the declaration of health.
Mrs H complained to us. In summary she said:
She sent her 1 August 2021 email to the private hospital and copied in The Exeter as 
she didnt know which was responsible for the error that led to her being charged. 
The Exeter should have realised that email was an expression of dissatisfaction 
which, as a regulated organisation, it was obliged to act on. 
The Exeters acknowledgement to that email said it would respond in one day but it 
didnt respond at all. She cancelled the premiums from 1 August 2021 because she 
was unhappy with The Exeters service and because it had already benefited by the 
hospital having charged her for costs The Exeter was responsible for. 
The consequences of The Exeters poor service was that it wanted her to complete a 
declaration of health after a major operation and she wouldnt have needed to if it 
had dealt with her concerns in August 2021. She would also have difficulty in getting 
alternative insurance on the same terms she had before 1 August 2021.
As a minimum she wants The Exeter to put her back in the position she was in on 
1 August 2021 by reinstating her cover at the premiums at that time and for it to pay 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience its poor service caused.
Our investigator said The Exeter had acted fairly and didnt need to do anything further.
Mrs H disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mrs H has made in making my decision but I wont address all 
her points, Ill focus on why Ive made my decision. 
I have to decide whether The Exeter acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulatory rules are set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), and are known as the DISP rules. DISP defines a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, froma 
person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims 
management service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondentwhich comes under the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Im satisfied The Exeter reasonably understood that Mrs Hs 1 August 2021 email to the 
private hospital, which it was copied into, wasnt a complaint about The Exeter. Mrs H 
addressed her email to someone who worked for the private hospital and her stated concern 
was the private hospital had taken money from her debit/credit card without her  
authorisation. She ended the email by saying she would call the private hospital the next day 
to talk about how the private hospital would refund her. I think The Exeter could reaonsblsy 
understand from the email that Mrs H was asking the private hospital to resolve the issue, 
she didnt ask The Exeter to do anything. So I dont think Mrs H made a complaint to The 
Exeter on 1 August 2021 which it reasonably should have responded to.Mrs Hs email received an automatic response from The Exeter. She also received its 
automatic response to her 24 August 2021 chasing email to the hospital which she copied 
The Exeter into. But as I think that from those emails The Exeter reasonably understood 
there was nothing for it to action it acted reasonably in not providing a substantive response.
Mrs H didnt contact The Exeter directly in August 2021 to ask for its help or to take any 
action. She didnt respond to its email about her not paying the August 2021 premium. She 
just continued to not pay the policy premiums.
The first evidence The Exeter had that Mrs H was unhappy with its service was her email to 
it of 17 December 2021. The Exeter accepts it didnt respond to that complaint within its own 
timescale. But the delay didnt disadvantage Mrs Hs position as by then she had four 
months premiums overdue and The Exeter had already asked her to complete a declaration 
of health if she wanted to reinstate cover.
I havent seen any evidence that The Exeter had given Mrs H poor service or administered 
her claim incorrectly before 1 August 2021, which is the reason shes given for cancelling the 
premiums from that date. Even if there was such evidence the premiums were still due for 
policy cover to continue. The policy is clear Mrs H is responsible to pay the premium on time 
and The Exeter can cancel the policy if the premium is arrears  
The Exeter didnt cancel the policy, as it was entitled to do under the policy terms. It offered 
Mrs H the possibility of policy reinstatement. It made a reasonable request for her to 
complete a declaration of health so its underwriters could consider any change of terms of 
cover. If it would continue cover on terms acceptable to Mrs H it reasonably wanted her to 
pay all outstanding premiums. Im satisfied that The Exeter made Mrs H a fair and 
reasonable offer, over and above what it was required to do under the policy terms.
As I think The Exeter acted fairly and reasonably theres no basis on which I can fairly say it 
must reinstate the policy without Mrs H completing the declaration of health and, if it wishes 
to continue offering cover, without her paying the outstanding premiums. And theres no 
basis for me to say it must pay her compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman