DRN-3337741
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS).
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. He returned to 
the dealership where he acquired the car the same month to investigate a rattle in the 
engine, which they informed him was due to the fitting of an after-market air filter which had 
a loose bracket. The dealership also checked the wheel bearings which they said were okay, 
and a reported bumpy drive, which they said was due to the after-market springs fitted to the 
vehicle. 
In June 2020 Mr G returned to the dealership a second time to investigate a loss of coolant 
from the engine. There was a repair completed to the radiator, and Mr G is unhappy with 
damage to the paintwork that he says was caused during this repair. Mr G has also 
complained that the dealership didnt refit the bumper or lights on the car properly, or he said 
that the car has been in an accident which has prevented the parts from fitting properly. 
The dealership investigated a rattle from the exhaust but said they wouldnt do any further 
work in respect of this because Mr G has replaced part of the exhaust himself. They checked 
for a pully noise and found no fault but replaced the alternator belts and tensioner as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
In July 2020 Mr G complained to TFS. He said there was a noise from the engine of the 
vehicle, vibration through the wheels and the car feels very bumpy, there was a slight pull to 
the left when driving, a judder when braking and a rattle from the exhaust. Mr G also 
complained to TFS about damage he said was caused by the dealership when the radiator 
was replaced. 
In August 2020 Mr G told TFS that hed found water in the boot of the car and believed there 
was a leak into the boot. 
TFS arranged for an engineer to inspect Mr Gs vehicle in November 2020. The engineer 
concluded that it was unknown when the car was lowered and the air filter fitted, but these 
may be contributing to the running issue, bumpy ride and slight veer. The engineer found no 
evidence of any accident damage but noted that the radiator replacement wouldve included 
removal of the headlights & bumper, and plastic parts dont always sit back in a perfect 
position when refitted. The engineer noted no performance issues on the test drive, and no 
water in the boot or spare wheel area. 
TFS sent Mr G their final response to his complaint in December 2020. They said there was 
no evidence of performance issues, and the problems with the feel and handling of the 
vehicle are likely due to alterations to the vehicle, which either Mr G made himself, or 
wouldve been evident on the vehicle when he acquired it, so they didnt think it was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. They said the repairs completed by the 
dealership were of a fair and expected standard, and the bodywork of the vehicle was in a 
fair condition for its age. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr G, she thought the vehicle was of satisfactory quality considering its age and 
the modifications made, so she didnt think TFS needed to do anything more. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said the car was sold to him with the modifications, and he doesnt 
think the engineer properly inspected his vehicle. Mr G says the inspection didnt cover all of 
the complaints he raised with TFS, and the vehicle wasnt tested at high speed.
 
Mr G provided a diagnostic check completed by a garage in June 2021. The garage checked 
for an engine noise and reported this to be normal. They found misfires on cylinders one and 
three and recommended that the standard air filter be refitted to the car. Mr G says the 
report confirms there are faults with the car, and hes unhappy these werent diagnosed 
sooner, and that he had to pay for this report. 
Mr G has provided videos of the engine running, and pictures of the cars tyres which he has 
replaced due to uneven wear. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. TFS as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car, will include 
things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car acquired was used with a cash price of around £11,000. It was seven years old 
and had travelled around 42,000 miles at the time of supply. 
When a person acquires a used car like Mr Gs its reasonable to say that the expectation of 
quality is lower than that of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for 
the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The 
chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, is higher. 
The investigation showed no evidence of a leak into the boot area, Mr G said hed drained 
this himself before the inspection to prevent any further damage. But Id expect the engineer 
to have found some residual evidence of this. I havent seen any evidence of a further leak 
into the boot area. 
The inspection also notes that the paintwork of Mr Gs car is commensurate with its age and 
mileage. Mr G has provided photos of some damage to the paintwork, but I havent seen any 
evidence that these were caused whilst the earlier repairs to the radiator were undertaken. The car was seven years old when Mr G acquired it, so Id expect to see some minor 
damage to the body of the vehicle as can be seen here. 
Mr G has said that the suspension had been lowered and the nonstandard air filter fitted 
before he purchased the car, and he discussed the lowered suspension with the dealership 
prior to collecting the car. The engineer that inspected Mr Gs vehicle said these 
modifications wouldve been evident when the car was purchased if theyd been fitted at that 
time.
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that these modifications were made prior to Mr G 
acquiring the vehicle, and that he was aware of them. Mr G has made a number of other, 
mainly cosmetic, alterations to the vehicle. 
I think, where a person acquires a car with modifications such as these, its reasonable to 
expect that they might cause some unusual wear to the vehicle, or some performance 
issues, and that maintenance or repairs might be needed sooner than would be expected on 
a vehicle without these modifications. 
The inspection of the vehicle noted that no performance issues were found, and the vehicle 
pulling to the left could be as a result of the lowered suspension. 
Mr G has provided evidence of some misfires on cylinder one and three more recently. I 
havent seen any evidence that these are linked to the early issues that Mr G raised with 
TFS. And the garage recommends that the standard air filter is refitted to the vehicle prior to 
further testing.
The evidence provided by Mr G following our investigators view shows hes had to replace 
the tyres as a result of uneven wear. It seems that this can be a consequence of lowered 
suspension. 
Based on the evidence, Im persuaded that the majority of the problems Mr G is 
experiencing with the vehicle, such as the wear to the tyres and the noise from the engine, 
are likely to be a consequence of the modifications made. Where non-standard parts are 
fitted to vehicles, it is possible for these to affect the handling and performance of the 
vehicle. 
That said, I think a reasonable person buying a car with these modifications would still 
expect it to operate in a safe manner, and without the modifications causing significant fault. 
The evidence of the car veering to the left is a concern in terms of safety, and I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect this to occur in a vehicle of this age and mileage, even with 
the modifications thatve been made. 
Whilst a non-standard air filter might be expected to result in unusual noise or vibration to 
the vehicle, the misfire of the engine is a fault that I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect to be caused by a non-standard air filter. 
The issues dont appear to be one of normal wear and tear, even when the modifications are 
considered, nor have I seen any evidence that they were caused by driving style or third-
party damage. 
All things considered, I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that 
Mr Gs car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied.Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, TFS should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Mr G has returned his vehicle for repairs to parts identified as being faulty previously and is 
still experiencing faults with the vehicle. There is a suggestion that returning the car to its 
standard specification might resolve the faults that make it of unsatisfactory quality, but its 
not clear exactly what repairs are needed, if they will be successful, will be long lasting, or 
how long they might take to complete. So, its likely that Mr G will be put to significant 
inconvenience, in addition to that which hes already experienced, in arranging a repair when 
its not clear that it will be successful and further work and time might then be required to 
return the car to a satisfactory state. It would also mean that Mr G has to wait for an 
unknown period of time before he is able to drive his car again. 
All things considered; I think Mr G should be allowed his final right to reject the car. This 
means that the car is collected from Mr G, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and 
the agreement and any adverse information should be removed from Mr Gs credit file. 
Mr G has been able to use the vehicle throughout the complaint, so I think its fair that Mr G 
pays for the use of the vehicle. I think his monthly rental payments reflect this use, and so its 
fair for TFS to keep these.
Ive seen evidence that Mr G paid £118 for the report diagnosing the misfires on cylinders 
one and three. TFS should reimburse Mr G for this, plus interest. 
Finally, Mr G has been put to the inconvenience of having to arrange for repairs and 
inspections to his car, TFS should pay Mr G £100 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr G responded to my provisional decision. He said hes had to spend money maintaining 
the car because of the faults. The work completed includes:
3 sets of new tyres due to uneven wear caused by the lowered suspension
Replacement of sparkplugs to attempt to fix the misfire 
Replacement of the front and rear badges due to corrosion 
Repair of the exhaust
Replacement of the door seal and door protectors. 
Replacement of the front and rear brakes which were pitted and unevenly worn 
(£200)
Two services and two MOTs because the dealership couldnt book him in, even 
though hed paid for a service plan
Replacement of two stabiliser bars on the rear of the car which shouldve been 
covered under autocare.
Mr G said hes spent money customising the car to his own liking, because he thought it 
would be his to keep, and now hell be out of pocket for these items. 
Mr G would like a full refund of his monthly payments, or at least two thirds of them, as the 
dealership had three attempts to fix the car and he wouldnt have had it for this long had TFS 
agreed to rejection sooner. Hed like a refund for the repairs hes completed, £118 for the diagnostic report, compensation for massive inconvenience and a reimbursement for the 
upgraded mirrors, headrests, and arm rest that he cant remove if he gives the car back. 
Mr G also said he couldnt get the same specification of car now, due to the increase in 
market prices. He said hed consider keeping the car if all his payments to date were 
refunded and he could use this to repair the car. 
TFS responded to my provisional decision. They said not all of the work completed by Mr G 
was cosmetic in nature, such as the replacement of part of the exhaust. They said in order to 
accept rejection of the vehicle it would need to be returned with any modifications removed 
and repairs to the exhaust completed, otherwise the re-sale value of the vehicle might be 
affected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision that I found the car to be of unsatisfactory quality as a 
result of the misfire. Neither party has disputed this, so I see no reason to change my mind 
on this point. Both parties have presented additional evidence concerning how the complaint 
should be resolved, and Ive thought about these carefully. 
Mr G has asked to be reimbursed for a number for repairs hes completed to the vehicle and 
Ive considered these in turn. 
Mr G has replaced the tyres due to uneven wear. As I set out in my provisional decision, this 
is a possible consequence of the modifications made, which Mr G knew about prior to 
purchasing the vehicle, and I dont think TFS are responsible for this.
Mr G has replaced the spark plus, in an attempt to correct the misfire on the vehicle. I think 
this was a reasonable step to take, and as I found this fault made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality, TFS should reimburse Mr G for this cost. Ive seen evidence that he paid £34.70 to 
replace the spark plugs. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr G has replaced the front and rear badges due to corrosion and 
the brakes due to them being pitted and worn. He said hes also replaced the door seal.  On 
a car of this age, I think a reasonable person might expect to need to make repairs to the 
vehicle, and these items appear to be a case of normal wear and tear, so TFS arent 
responsible for these costs. 
Mr G said hes had to replace two stabiliser bars that should have been covered under his 
Autocare cover but he was told by TFS to wait until our investigation was concluded, and so 
the cover expired. I havent seen any evidence that TFS told Mr G to wait for any repairs, 
and he couldve approached the provider of his warranty cover if he felt he had a claim to 
make. So TFS arent responsible for this cost. 
Mr G said hes paid for two MOTs and two services which shouldve been covered under his 
service plan. I havent seen any evidence that Mr G was refused an MOT or a service by the 
dealership. I understand Mr G was unhappy with the possibility of non-genuine parts being 
used during a service, but I dont think this is unreasonable for a second-hand vehicle. So, 
TFS arent responsible for these costs. 
Both Mr G and TFS have commented on the modifications that Mr G has made to the 
vehicle. TFS say these should be removed prior to the rejection taking place otherwise the re-sale value of the vehicle might be affected. Mr G says he made the modifications because 
he expected to keep the car once the agreement had ended, but because its faulty hell now 
lose out on the cost of modifications made. He asked to be reimbursed for the modifications 
which cant be easily removed. 
Under the agreement, TFS remains the owner of the vehicle until Mr G has made all 
repayments. But I haven't seen anything in the agreement that prevents Mr G from modifying 
the vehicle. The vehicle was already modified when Mr G acquired it, by way of lowered 
suspension and an after-market air filter. So, I don't think it was unforeseeable that Mr G 
might want to make further changes to the vehicle to suit his taste.
I accept that modifications might reduce the resale value of a vehicle. But it is possible that 
they might increase it too. Modifications might narrow the audience interested in a vehicle, 
and so effect its value. But as Mr Gs vehicle already had some mechanical modifications 
prior to supply, I don't think that would be the case here.
Mr G made modifications to the vehicle with the intention of owning it once the agreement 
with TFS came to an end, and it is being returned only because there was a breach of 
contract, as the vehicle wasn't of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. So, I think it 
would be fair for TFS to reimburse Mr G for the modifications which cannot be easily 
removed which are the mirrors, headrest, and armrest, upon receipt of invoices for this work. 
I asked Mr G and TFS for any further comments or evidence in respect of this 
reimbursement for the modifications made to the vehicle. 
TFS didnt respond with any further comments or evidence. 
Mr G said hed be happy to get these costs back, but he should also have his monthly 
payments made to date refunded, because the car wasnt worth its sale price, and hes only 
had it for so long because a rejection wasnt agreed sooner. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr G wouldnt have had the car for as long as he has if a rejection 
had been agreed sooner, he has continued to use the vehicle. And if he didnt have use of 
this vehicle, hed have needed to pay for some other way to stay mobile. I think the monthly 
payments agreed at the outset reflect a fair cost for use of the vehicle. So, I find that TFS 
can retain the monthly payments made to date to reflect the use of the vehicle.
Mr G said if TFS would reimburse him for his payments already made, hed pay the rest of 
the finance amount and keep the car, because it would cost him more to replace it now. If Mr 
G wants to approach TFS to negotiate a different outcome, he is able to do this. But for all of 
the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that rejection of the vehicle is the appropriate 
remedy having regard to the relevant law and regulations. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc to: 
End the agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr G
Refund Mr G £118 for the diagnostic report, plus 8% simple yearly interest, 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr G £34.70 for the replacement spark plus, plus 8% simple yearly interest, 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlementRefund Mr G for the modifications to the mirrors, armrest, and headrest, upon receipt 
of invoices for this work, plus 8% simple yearly interest, calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr G £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman