DRN-2392576
The complaint
 Mr E is unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined his claim and cancelled his 
policy.  
What happened
Mr E booked to go on a cruise in 2018 and so purchased a travel medical policy with ERGO 
in July the same year. The cruise was for 35 days from mid-December through to January 
2019. A few days into the trip, Mr E said he suffered with sea-sickness and so visited the on-
board doctor on two occasions, the combined treatments cost over £3,000 and so he 
claimed on his policy with ERGO. 
ERGO declined his claim because it said that Mr E hadnt told it everything about his medical 
history. It said that had it known the full story then it would not have offered cover because 
Mr E was too much of a high risk to insure. ERGO withdrew its cover. 
Our investigator accepted this. But she said that ERGO should return the premium Mr E paid 
for the policy. She said he made a careless mistake and so under the rules, it should give 
back the money he paid for the policy. She also said ERGO should pay 8% simple interest 
because this was money that was owed to Mr E and that hed been without for some time. 
ERGO disagreed. It said that Mr E had made a deliberate and reckless attempt to withhold 
his medical history from it. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Es complaint and mainly for the same reasons given by our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
When Mr E purchased the policy, he spoke with ERGO by phone. Hed used ERGO 
previously for another trip and so it already had some information related to his medical 
history. ERGO confirmed whether this information was accurate to which Mr E said it was. It 
then went on to ask for additional information and whether there had been any changes to 
his medical history. There was some discussion around the medication Mr E was taking for 
his blood pressure and heart problems although I accept that not everything was shared with 
ERGO. 
The question asked was;
Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms, or for which any form 
of treatment, or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation, or follow-up/ 
check-up, has been required, or received, during the 2 years prior to the commencement of 
cover under this policy and/or prior to any trip 
I thought the question was clear and that Mr E should have disclosed that hed visited his GP 
for deep vein thrombosis (DVT), urostomy, insomnia and spinal stenosis. ERGO 
subsequently said Mr E should have also disclosed that hed suffered with bladder cancer, 
but I disagree as this fell outside the two-year window and was in 1995. 
ERGO said had it known about these conditions in addition to the others Mr E had suffered, 
then it would not have offered him insurance to begin with. Im satisfied this would have been 
the case as Mr E would have presented too high of a risk for it to insure based on its 
underwriting criteria. And so, Im persuaded that ERGO has declined his claim fairly and has 
withdrawn the policy correctly in line with its terms.
But ERGO decided to retain the premium Mr E paid for this policy, even though it would not 
have covered him. The only time this would be acceptable was if a consumer deliberately 
and recklessly failed to share vital medical information with an insurer to gain cover. Having 
carefully considered this, I disagree with ERGO that Mr E deliberately or recklessly 
answered its questions about his health. I say that because the call notes indicated that 
during the sales call, Mr E shared information about the various other medical conditions 
hed suffered in the last two years. These included; a cold; heart attack; coronary artery 
bypass graft; cholesterol levels and a blocked artery. 
Given his extensive medical history, I think Mr E tried to be as open as he could and also 
shared that hed been visiting his GP regularly for his heart problems. So, I think its clear 
that some medical information wasnt shared when it should have been, but Im persuaded 
the misrepresentation was careless, rather than reckless or deliberate. There was evidence 
to show that Mr E had shared his cancer diagnosis and that because of the passage of time 
that had lapsed ERGO decided it was not relevant to the initial quote. I also note there was 
some confusion around whether Mr E had suffered with angina and that ERGO didnt clarify 
or explore this further. It was also omitted from the screening process. 
This perhaps was a lost opportunity and could have prompted further discussion about the 
other reasons hed been to see his doctor. I also think it shows that Mr E tried to share as 
much information about his medical history as he could remember. But given there were 
many visits to the GP over the two-year window in question, I think its most likely that Mr E 
had forgotten what all his visits were for. So, to be clear, I agree this is a qualifying 
misrepresentation, however I consider it careless, rather than a deliberate attempt to mislead 
the insurer.  
The relevant law that applies here is CIDRA. This says that under a careless 
misrepresentation classification, ERGO can decline the claim and withdraw the policy, but it 
must also return the premium Mr E paid. And so, that is my final decision, ERGO must return 
the premium and with 8% simple interest. I know ERGO questioned why it should pay 
interest on this amount as it does not think it should. But after carefully considering its 
actions towards Mr E, I believe its acted unfairly as I consider Mr Es misrepresentation 
careless rather than deliberate or reckless. And thats because Im not persuaded by the 
evidence it put forward on that point. Its because of that, I think its fair that ERGO pay the 
8% simple interest because it retained money that it should have given back to Mr E.     
   
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Es complaint. ERGO Reiseversicherung AG must now return the 
premium Mr E paid for his policy plus 8% simple interest.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 Scott Slade
Ombudsman