DRN-4132506
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM), has 
handled his mortgages. He also complains about its poor communication with him. 
What happened
Mr R had three buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages with BM. Following his bankruptcy in early 2015 
(from which he has since been discharged), his trustees took over one of the mortgaged 
properties and sold it. The sale left a shortfall of just over £27,000.   
In 2017, Mr R complained to BM that he was still being asked to pay the shortfall debt. BM 
sent him its final response about this on 30 August 2017. It apologised, said it would stop 
asking Mr R for payment, and paid him £500 compensation. It says it later increased 
compensation to £750.
In 2022, Mr R complained to BM that the shortfall debt was still showing on his credit file and 
that had been the case ever since the property was sold. He said this wasnt right, since his 
bankruptcy meant he wasnt liable for the debt. He wanted it removed so he would have a 
better chance of getting a residential mortgage.
On 10 January 2023, Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
said he had written to BM eight times but it had failed to respond to him, and he had made 
multiple requests for his credit file to be corrected.
Mr R also complained about one of his other mortgages with BM, saying that BM hadnt told 
him until recently that he couldnt live in the mortgaged property, and so the mortgage had 
been mis-sold.
Our Investigator found that BM had sent Mr R a final response letter on 28 June 2022, and 
that Mr R had asked us to look into this complaint more than six months later  outside the 
time limit. The Investigator concluded that we cant look into Mr Rs complaints that BM didnt 
make it clear he shouldnt live in a BTL property and that the mortgage on that property was 
therefore mis-sold.
The Investigator also found that we can look into Mr Rs complaints about BMs failure to 
amend his credit file, and BMs complaint-handling. 
Since Mr R referred his complaint to us, BM had sent him another final response letter in 
February 2023. It apologised for having reported wrong information on Mr Rs credit file and 
for not replying to his correspondence, and said it would pay Mr R £800 by way of 
compensation. 
Our Investigator noted that BM said it had corrected Mr Rs credit file, and he thought its 
offer of £800 was fair.
Mr R didnt accept that conclusion. He reiterated that he had written to BM eight times in 
response to its letter of 28 June 2022, but it had failed to reply  and his referral to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was only a few days over the six-month time limit. He didnt 
think it was fair that part of his complaint should be time-barred given that BM had failed to 
reply to him, and these are exceptional circumstances. He also said he should fairly receive 
far more compensation for the way BM had treated him and the length of time it had ignored 
him. 
I issued a decision setting out which parts of Mr Rs complaint I can and cant consider. I 
concluded that I cant consider Mr Rs complaints about not having been told BM didnt 
consent to him living in a property subject to a BTL mortgage and that the mortgage was 
mis-sold on that basis, because he had referred them to us too late. I found that I can 
consider Mr Rs complaints about the information BM reported on his credit file about the 
shortfall debt and its lack of response to his correspondence.
This final decision sets out my conclusions on the parts of the complaint I can determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that BM put wrong information on Mr Rs credit file in respect of the 
balance which was left outstanding following the sale of one of the mortgaged properties a 
number of years ago. Theres also no dispute that BM failed to reply to Mr Rs 
correspondence about this. BM has apologised to Mr R for its mistakes and said it would 
amend his credit file and pay him £800 in compensation.
In all the circumstances, while I realise this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for, I think BM 
has done enough to put things right, and it has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation.
Mr R was concerned about the impact the shortfall debt on his credit file could have on an 
application for a new mortgage, and I think thats understandable. However, his bankruptcy 
wasnt discharged until 2021, and, as our Investigator pointed out, Mr R had said in July 
2022 that he hadnt looked for better mortgage interest rates in the past. Mr Rs financial 
situation would have affected any application, and in any event he hadnt been looking to 
apply for a new rate. 
Against this background, I find I cant fairly conclude Mr R has lost out financially because of 
the information BM wrongly recorded on his credit file. BM has said it has now amended 
Mr Rs credit file, and the records it has provided reflect that.
Mr R sent BM multiple letters and emails, but BM failed to respond to them  despite telling 
him at one point that it would do so and get back to him. As a result, it took significantly 
longer than it should have done for Mr Rs credit file to be amended and for him to get a 
response to his complaint. 
Its clear that BMs failure to reply to Mr Rs correspondence caused Mr R distress and 
upset, as well as inconvenience, and he has had to spend some considerable time on this 
matter. I consider that he should fairly receive compensation to reflect that. However, awards 
I make arent intended to be a fine or a punishment for financial businesses; I dont have the 
power to make punitive awards. There is more information about awards the Financial 
Ombudsman Service makes on our website.
In all the circumstances, and having taken careful account of what Mr R has told us, I find 
£800 is a fair and reasonable award, so I dont require BM to pay any more than that.My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires, has made a 
fair offer to put things right. It should pay Mr R £800 compensation if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman