DRN-4090449
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Richmond Cars (Botley) Ltd trading as Richmond Suzuki Botley 
(Richmond) is making him pay in full for a policy he attempted to cancel within 14 days of its 
inception. 
What happened
Mr H purchased a three-year extended motor warranty on finance, alongside a vehicle 
purchase. A number of days later Mr H indicated that he wanted to cancel the motor 
warranty. He said because he was still within the standard 14-day cooling off period, he 
should be allowed to cancel the policy at no charge.
Richmond said that as per its policy terms and conditions there is no surrender value on the 
policy and no monies would be refunded. As such, Mr H would need to continue paying the 
finance on the warranty.
Mr H was unhappy with this, so he complained. Before Richmond could respond, he brought 
the complaint to us. But Richmond said that it didnt think this was a complaint we could 
consider. It said the warranty wasnt a contract of insurance, so didnt think we could look a 
complaint about it.
We issued a jurisdiction decision on 30 March 2023. This decision said that because the 
warranty with Richmond had the features of a contract of insurance, Mr Hs complaint about 
the performance of this contract, is a complaint we can consider.
In an attempt to resolve the merits of the complaint informally I followed up this decision with 
an email to Richmond on 5 April 2023. Richmond hasnt responded to either the jurisdiction 
decision or the email, so I am now going to issue a final decision on the merits of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H took this policy out on finance. He sent an email to the finance provider nine days after 
the agreement started stating that he wanted to cancel the policy. He was told that as per 
the policy terms and conditions there was no surrender value on the policy. 
Our jurisdiction decision dated 30 March 2023, deems this policy to have the features of a 
contract of insurance. As such, under ICOBS 7.1 Mr H has the right to request cancellation 
of this policy and receive a refund. And Under 7.2 Richmond can charge an amount for the 
service actually provided.
So, this is what should happen here. Richmond should treat this policy like a contract of 
insurance. Mr H should be allowed cancel the policy from the date he requested 
cancellation. He should only be charged for his time on cover and any costs Richmond has 
reasonably incurred in the setting up of this policy. 
As the policy was being paid via a finance agreement any issues that relate to the finance 
agreement, need to be raised separately with the finance provider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Richmond Cars (Botley) Ltd trading 
as Richmond Suzuki Botley to:
Cancel the policy from the date Mr H requested cancellation.
Refund any overpayment made by Mr H from the date of cancellation. Mr H should 
only be charged for time on cover and any charges reasonably incurred by 
Richmond. 8% simple interest should be added to any refund from the time the 
cancellation was requested.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman