DRN-1807859
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited (Wilson & Co) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to her when she bought a car in 2007
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because it may have been more 
difficult for Mrs K to make a claim on the policy because of a pre-existing medical condition. 
Wilson & Co didnt agree with our adjudicators view. In response, amongst other things, it 
said: 
The demands and needs statement clearly set out the policys main exclusions and 
Mrs K would have known she wasnt covered for her medical condition. There was no 
note on file to suggest Mrs K had a pre-existing condition; 
As well as cover for a medical condition, the policy also provided life and 
unemployment cover; 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter was passed to me to 
make a final decision. I asked our adjudicator to request a copy of the PPI policy document. I 
understand from Wilson & Co that it does not have a copy of that document.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I appreciate Wilson & Co strongly disagrees with our adjudicator. But after considering this 
case at length, Im satisfied it should be upheld. Ill explain why below. 
Turning first to Mrs Ks medical condition, it seems most likely to me that it would have been 
enduring at the time she bought the car. And given the traumatic onset of that condition, it 
appears to me most likely to be ongoing and likely to recur over a significant time. 
This was an advised sale and so Wilson & Co had to take reasonable steps to establish that 
the cover was suitable for Mrs Ks needs. And if the cover wasnt fully suitable, I would 
expect Wilson & Co to make that clear to Mrs K. 
So, the next question for me is whether Wilson & Co reasonably recommended this cover to 
Mrs K. I dont have a policy document, so I have taken the policys exclusions to have been 
accurately set out on the demands and needs questionnaire. That being so, it appears most 
likely to me that Mrs K wouldnt have been able to claim for a medical condition she knew 
about when she took the policy out. So, she wouldnt have been able to claim for her 
ongoing medical condition. As Ive found that medical condition was likely to recur, I dont 
think this policy was wholly suitable for her needs.  
Wilson & Co said it made clear to Mrs K what would have been covered under the terms of 
the policy. But as this was an advised sale, it needed to do more than simply point out the 
exclusions. It should have made reasonable enquiries of Mrs Ks personal circumstances to 
see whether the cover was right for her. Looking at the paperwork, I cant see any enquiries 
were made about Mrs Ks circumstances, other than to establish her eligibility for the cover. 
Wilson & Co says it has no note on file to suggest that Mrs K had a medical condition. But 
other than to read out a general exclusion, I cant see that the person selling the cover would 
have been prompted to find out anything more about Mrs Ks health. So I dont think Wilson 
& Co did enough to establish whether this cover was suitable for Mrs K. 
I dont think Mrs K would have bought this cover if shed been unequivocally told it wasnt a 
good fit for her needs. I dont think shed have thought it was good value for money. I accept 
that the policy also offered life and unemployment cover, but I dont think Mrs K would have 
wanted to pay for a policy when she probably couldnt benefit from it in full. 
For those reasons, I uphold this complaint and Wilson & Co will need to take action to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Mrs K borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been 
and she paid more than she should have each month. Mrs K needs to get back the extra she 
paid. 
Wilson & Co must: 
 Work out and pay Mrs K the difference between what she paid each month on the loan and 
what she would have paid each month without PPI; 
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs C paid each month from when she 
paid it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year ; 
 If Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Wilson & Co can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Wilson & Co to take off tax from this interest. Wilson & 
Co must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
My final decision
I have upheld this complaint and require Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited to comply with 
the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman