DRN-1622561
The complaint
Mr R complains that Watford Insurance Company Limited incorrectly turned down his claim 
on his motorcycle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Rs motorbike was stolen so he claimed on his policy. Watford reviewed the claim and 
turned it down. Watford relied upon a term of the policy which said if Mr Rs Compulsory 
Basic Training (CBT) had expired, then the policy wouldnt provide any cover. Mr R didnt 
think this was fair and complained. 
Watford reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it, it also noticed Mr Rs motorbike was 
stolen from a different address to the one Mr R had on his policy. As Watford rejected his 
complaint Mr R brought it here. He said Watford should have known his CBT had expired 
when his policy renewed, so didnt think it was fair his claim was declined, he also said the 
term was ambiguous. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. She found that while Mr Rs 
CBT had expired, it was his responsibility to ensure it was up to date. Because of this she 
didnt think Watford had done anything wrong by turning down the claim. Mr R didnt agree, 
he said the contract was ambiguously worded and contrary to the requirement of good faith. 
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant term of Mr Rs policy says: 
1. This Policy does not apply when any motorcycle covered by it is:

 c. Ridden by or in the charge of anyone who;
 Does not have a valid driving licence and or a valid Compulsory Basic Training 
certificate if required
At the time of the theft Mr R had a provisional licence and his CBT had expired almost a year 
earlier. Im therefore satisfied this term applies to him. When considering this exclusion, it 
would only be fair to apply it if it was material to the loss, and in this particular case I think it 
was. I say this because Ive noticed his motorbike was stolen from an address which is 
different to the one on his policy and he told Watford he had been riding his motorbike 
regularly and only realised his CBT had expired when he went to send his documents to 
Watford. 
Mr R had ridden his motorbike and it was away from the registered address when it was 
stolen. I think this is material to the loss so Im not going to interfere with Watfords decision 
to turn down his claim. 
Ive considered Mr Rs points about the policy being ambiguously worded and contrary to the 
requirement of good faith. Im satisfied the term Watford has relied upon is clear and Im not 
persuaded that by allowing Watford to rely on it is contrary to good faith in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman