DRN-2500029
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as Woolwich Building 
Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W took out a mortgage with Barclays in 1981 (with an account number that 
ended in 0807). 
They opened four more mortgage accounts with Barclays over the years  one in 1991 (with 
an account number ending in 5533), one in 1995 (with an account number ending in 4248), 
one in 1997 (with an account number ending in 6569) and the last in 2001 (with an account 
number ending in 0244).
Mr W and Mrs W complained to Barclays about the sale of the PPI they say was added to all 
five accounts. 
Barclays upheld Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about PPI on their 2001 mortgage account 
and this complaint is now settled. But Barclays didnt respond to Mr W and Mrs Ws 
complaint about the PPI they said was on the other four accounts, despite Mr W and Mrs W 
asking it to.
So Mr W and Mrs W brought their complaint about the four remaining accounts to us. They 
said they were sold the PPI without their knowledge, it was included in the mortgage 
package without declaration and the package was sold on a take it or leave it basis. 
When we asked for Barclays response to this complaint, it said as follows:
It had sold Mr W and Mrs W PPI on their 1991 mortgage account (the one ending on 
5533) but it didnt think it had mis-sold the cover; and 
It had no evidence Mr W and Mrs W were paying for PPI on the other three accounts.
Because Barclays was raising two separate issues on these four accounts  defending the 
sale of the PPI on Mr W and Mrs Ws 1991 mortgage account but saying there was no PPI 
on the other three accounts  we split this complaint into two separate complaints.
In July 2020, an ombudsman issued a decision about whether there was PPI on three of the 
accounts  that is, the ones from 1981 (ending in 0807), from 1995 (ending in 4248) and 
from 1997 (ending in 6569). She decided neither Barclays nor Mr W and Mrs W had been 
able to show PPI was sold on these accounts. But she also said if new evidence come to 
light to show any of the three accounts did have PPI, Barclays should consider it.
Mr W and Mrs W did have evidence, which theyd sent us, showing PPI on their 1995 
account (the one ending in 4248). So we asked Barclays to consider it. And, as with the PPI 
sold in 1991, Barclays said it didnt think it had mis-sold Mr W and Mrs W this PPI. 
Because Barclays has now defended the sale of the PPI on the 1995 account (ending in 
4248), this sale has been added to Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about the 1991 account 
(ending in 5533). 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about these two accounts. 
He didnt uphold it. Among other things, he said that, given the length of time since the sales, 
there was very limited information available for him to conclude safely the policies werent 
presented to Mr W and Mrs W as optional.
Mr W and Mrs W disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint.
I know Mr W and Mrs W are strongly of the view they were mis-sold PPI on all five of their 
accounts. But my decision here only looks at their complaint about the PPI sold on their 
1991 (ending in 5533) and 1995 (ending in 4248) accounts. For their 1981 account (ending 
in 0807) and 1997 account (ending in 6569), I must refer Mr W and Mrs W to our 
ombudsmans final decision of July 2020. (And, of course, for their 2001 account, Barclays 
upheld Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint.)
Having looked at Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of their 1991 and 1995 
policies, Ive decided not to uphold it. This has been a difficult decision to reach and I know it 
will disappoint Mr W and Mrs W deeply. But I hope the reasons Im about to give help them 
to understand why I dont think, on balance, it would be fair and reasonable to uphold their 
complaint about these sales.
When Barclays sold Mr W and Mrs W the PPI on these two accounts, it needed to make it 
clear to them they had a choice about both policies and it needed to get their agreement to 
buying them.
When Mr W and Mrs W brought their complaint to us they said they were sold the PPI 
without their knowledge  and, therefore, implicitly, without their consent. They said it was an 
undeclared part of their mortgage package and sold on a take it or leave it basis. More 
recently, Mr W and Mrs Ws have also said they werent given a choice about some of the   
PPI policies.  
In response to Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint, Barclays said, in relation to the 1991 sale, there 
was no compulsion to agree to its recommendation to buy PPI and Mr W could equally have 
declined the cover, proceeding without it. And in relation to the 1995 sale, it said its advisers 
wouldve made it clear Mr W and Mrs W had the option to accept or decline PPI. 
From this, its clear I have two very different accounts of how the PPI was sold. I also have 
the added difficulty that theres very little additional information from the time to back up 
either Mr Ws and Mrs Ws or Barclays accounts of the sales. Barclays hasnt been able to 
give us copies of any paperwork from the time. But I dont think thats surprising since these 
policies were sold more than 25 years ago and businesses arent required to keep 
paperwork for that long. 
But Mr W and Mrs W have given us some documents they still had and so Ive looked at 
these as follows. 
1991 saleFor the 1991 sale, these documents include
A letter to Mr W from the underwriter of the 1991 PPI policy dated 26 April 1991. This 
thanks Mr W for his completed PPI application form and tells him his application has 
been accepted. It sets out the monthly premium for the policy and the monthly 
benefit. It also says he can cancel the policy within 21 days if the cover doesnt meet 
his needs; and
An accident, sickness or unemployment claim form from the Woolwich that Mr W 
completed in August 1991 to claim for compulsory redundancy.
1995 sale
For the 1995 sale, these documents include:
A summary of initial monthly mortgage costs for Mr W and Mrs W dated 18 
November 1995. This shows the PPI monthly premium and monthly benefit for the 
1995 mortgage account;
A letter to Mr W from the Woolwich dated 29 December 1995 asking Mr W to sign an 
enclosed PPI application for the 1995 account;
A letter from the underwriter of the 1995 policy dated 17 January 1996. This thanks 
Mr W for his completed PPI application form and tells him his application has been 
accepted. It sets out the monthly premium for the policy and the monthly benefit. It 
also says he can cancel the policy within 21 days if he doesnt want the insurance.
Looking at these documents, I dont think the PPI Mr W and Mrs W took out in 1991 and 
1995 was undeclared. That is, I think its clear Mr W and Mrs W knew Mr W was taking it 
out. I say this because the letters from the underwriter (which was the same company for 
both the 1991 and 1995 accounts) show Mr W filled in PPI application forms (even though 
we dont now have copies of those application forms). 
Mr W and Mrs W have, however, also said they didnt have a choice about these policies if 
they wanted to continue the endowment mortgage they originally took out in 1981. If they 
didnt take them, theyve said theyd have been in breach of their mortgage. 
I should say I dont think Mr W and Mrs Ws recollections here are entirely consistent  
theyve said the PPI was added without their knowledge, but then theyve also said they 
didnt have a choice about it. Theres nothing in any of the few documents Ive got from the 
time of the sales to show me Mr W and Mrs W had to have these policies to continue with 
their mortgages. Conversely, of course, theres nothing in them to show they didnt. 
But to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint on this issue, Id need to have enough 
information to make me think its likely Barclays did something wrong when it sold               
Mr W and Mrs W the 1991 and 1995 policies. 
The only information Ive got that points to this are Mr W and Mrs Ws own recollections. And 
those recollections, while theyre emphatic, arent detailed in terms of what happened and 
when. And, as Ive said, I dont find them entirely consistent on the issues of knowledge and 
choice. They are also more than 25 years old. Its possible, as Mr W and Mrs W have said, 
that Barclays told them they didnt have a choice about PPI on their 1991 and 1995 accounts 
if they wanted to carry on with the mortgage. But Mr W and Mrs Ws recollections on their 
own, without other information to back up what they say, arent clear or persuasive enough 
for me to think it would be fair and reasonable to say its more likely than not Barclays didnt give them a choice about these two PPI policies. So I dont uphold their complaint on this 
point. 
In line with our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI, as well as looking at 
Mr W and Mrs Ws specific complaint points, Ive also looked to see if there are any other 
reasons why I should uphold their complaint. But I dont think there are, as Ill explain. 
Barclays says it recommended both policies to Mr W and Mrs W. So it needed to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policies were suitable for them in their particular 
circumstances. 
With so little information from the time on this complaint, I dont know what steps Barclays 
took to do this. But looking at the information Mr W and Mrs W have given us about their 
circumstances in 1991 and 1995 and the certificates of insurance for both policies (which I 
believe Mr W and Mrs W sent us), I think the policies were right for them. I say this because 
(based on these things):
I think Mr W (who it seems was the policyholder on both policies) was eligible for the 
PPI. 
And it doesnt look as if Mr W was affected by any of the main limitations or 
exclusions the policies contained (such as those for known health problems or 
unusual employment terms). 
The job Mr W has told us he was doing in April 1991 is different from the one thats in 
the accident, sickness or unemployment claim form he completed when he was 
made redundant in July 1991 (which I referred to earlier). But Mr W says that claim 
was successful.
And the job Mr W told us he was doing in 1995 was one hed only been in for a short 
while. But he told our adjudicator hed been in another job before then, so thered 
been no gaps in his employment.
Looking at all of this, I dont think there was anything to stop Mr W making a 
successful claim on the policies (as he did in 1991). And that means I dont think the 
eligibility criteria or limitations and exclusions the policies contained made them 
unsuitable for him.
Mr W and Mrs W told us Mr W wouldnt have got any sick pay if he couldnt work 
because of sickness or an accident or if he lost his job. And they say they didnt have 
any savings or other insurance policies they couldve used if things got difficult. A 
mortgage is a long-term and significant financial commitment, secured on your home. 
And your home is at risk if you fall behind on your mortgage repayments. So I think 
the PPI  which wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim Mr W made  gave                
Mr W and Mrs W useful protection they didnt otherwise have. 
I havent seen anything to make me think the cost of the cover wasnt affordable for 
Mr W and Mrs W.
As well as making sure the PPI was suitable for Mr W and Mrs W, Barclays was also under a 
duty to give them information about the cover that was clear, fair and not misleading. Again, with so little information on this complaint, I dont know what steps Barclays took to do 
this. But I can see the cost of the cover for the 1995 account was set out in the mortgage 
illustration Barclays gave Mr W and Mrs W. And it was also set out in the letters the 
underwriters sent Mr W for both policies (although these letters post-date the sales). 
From this, though, I think Mr W and Mrs W wouldve had a broad idea of what they were 
paying for the cover, which it was important for them to know. And, as Ive already said, I 
dont have enough information to say the cover  which I think was suitable for them  
wasnt presented as optional. So I dont think clearer information from Barclays about the 
policies  if it had been needed  is likely to have changed anything.
Mr W and Mrs W have made many arguments to support their position that they were mis-
sold PPI on all of their accounts, including the two accounts from 1991 and 1995 that Ive 
looked at in this decision. And theyve also made wider comments about PPI mis-selling. Ive 
considered all of Mr W and Mrs Ws comments and arguments in relation to this particular 
complaint about these two accounts. But they dont change my conclusions.
Our role at this service is to look at each complaint we get based on the information, 
arguments, facts and circumstances of that particular complaint. We also consider the law, 
regulation and industry practice as it applied at the time the events being complained about 
happened. Thats what Ive done here. And for the reasons Ive given, and based on the 
information Ive seen, on balance, I dont think Mr W and Mrs W were mis-sold these two PPI 
policies in 1991 and 1995.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of their 
1991 and 1995 PPI policies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman