DRN-2208369
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc declined his Section 75 claim.  
What happened
 In January 2019 Mr S paid £300 on his TSB credit card to a car scratch and bodywork 
repair company. During the repair the merchant damaged the rear door of Mr Ss car.
Mr S tried to resolve matters with the merchant but was unable to do so. He says that 
eventually the merchant suggested that he have the car repaired elsewhere.
Mr S had the repairs carried out elsewhere but says there were some aspects relating to the 
overspray which didnt warrant the expenditure to rectify. The merchant reimbursed Mr S for 
the repairs in the sum of £540.
Mr S contacted TSB and raised a claim under section 75 for an additional £411.50 made up 
of £61.50 fuel expenses and loss of use, and £350 for the overspray, together with distress 
and inconvenience.
TSB declined the claim. It said it wasnt liable for the claim because the merchant had 
reimbursed the cost of repairs.
Mr S was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that TSB should compensate Mr S for 
the fuel expenses and loss of use, which arose as a result of him having to take the car to 
another garage for repairs. She said she wouldnt be asking TSB to pay compensation for 
the overspray, or for distress and inconvenience, because Mr S had chosen not to have all 
the repair work carried out and because section 75 doesnt cover distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was entitled to recover damages for the remaining damage to 
the car caused by the overspray. He said the figure of £350 he was seeking included a sum 
for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. In order to uphold Mr Ss complaint against TSB, I would need to be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract and that TSBs response to the claim wasnt 
fair or reasonable.
It might be helpful if I set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ss complaint, 
I take section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome 
as, for instance, a court might reach if Mr S pursued a claim for breach of contract.
In this case, Im satisfied that there has been a breach of contract. The merchant damaged 
Mr Ss car in the course of carrying out a repair. So, its fair to say that the merchant didnt 
carry out its services with a reasonable degree of skill and care.
I understand that the merchant advised Mr S to have the damage it had cause repaired at 
another garage. The merchant reimbursed Mr S for the cost of these repairs.
Mr S says he didnt have all of the damage repaired. Hes explained that the merchant 
oversprayed paint and lacquer on the inside of the door and that the cost of putting this right 
wouldve been very high. Its not clear from the information provided to me whether the 
merchant wouldve reimbursed all of Mr Ss repair costs including those required to rectify 
the overspray. I havent seen anything to suggest that all of the repairs wouldnt have been 
reimbursed. So, its not clear why Mr S didnt arrange to have all the necessary repairs 
carried out, irrespective of the high cost, because these are costs which I think, on the 
balance of probability, the merchant would have reimbursed.
That said, Im of the view that because the merchant breached the contract, Mr S should be 
put back in the position he would be in had the breach not occurred. So, I think TSB should 
compensate him for the fuel costs hes incurred in taking the car to the garage and the loss 
of use whist the car was being repaired.  
Mr S is seeking a further £350, which he says comprises an element for the repairs costs to 
rectify the overspray, together with a sum for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
 Ive already explained why I dont think TSB is responsible for the costs of rectifying the 
overspray. Mr S had the opportunity to have these repairs carried out but chose not to do so. 
I dont think its fair to ask TSB to meet these costs now. Im persuaded that Mr S would be 
been reimbursed by the merchant if hed had this work completed.
In relation to distress and inconvenience, and whilst I appreciate that Mr S has been caused 
inconvenience by the merchants actions, in order to ask TSNB to pay compensation I would 
need to be persuaded that it caused unnecessary delay in the course of handling the claim. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that TSB did cause delay, or that it did anything wrong 
in its handling of the claim.
In conclusion, Im of the view that TSB should pay Mr S the sum of £61.50 to compensate 
him for his fuel costs and loss of use. But for the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking 
TSB to pay compensation for the repair work that Mr S chose not to have completed, or for 
distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. TSB Bank plc must pay the sum of £61.50 
to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 Emma Davy
Ombudsman