DRN-3440532
The complaint
Mrs F complains that following expiry of her credit card payment holiday, Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide) offered a further payment holiday and later registered a default 
on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs F held a credit card account with Nationwide. Theyd previously agreed a payment 
holiday on her account, as her income had been adversely impacted by the effects of the 
global pandemic.
Mrs F says that Nationwide contacted her when her payment holiday expired. She said they 
offered a further payment holiday for three months. Although she didnt need this, she 
accepted their offer.
In or around April 2021, Mrs F completed a review of her mortgage arrangements. She was 
informed by her advisor that a default had been registered on her credit file by Nationwide. 
So, she decided to complain to Nationwide. Mrs F said that the payment holiday had caused 
the default.
In response to Mrs Fs complaint, Nationwide didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They 
said Mrs F had called them in August 2020 asking for an interest free option. Her previous 
payment holiday had incurred interest. They said theyd reviewed Mrs Fs income and 
expenditure which showed a large deficit each month. So, they offered a six month Nil 
Payment Plan which was later extended for a further six months.
Nationwide said this meant no payments were expected during the plan, no interest or 
charges would be applied, and it was subject to a default notice being issued. They said this 
had been explained to Mrs F and shed agreed to proceed. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with Nationwides response. She didnt think they shouldve recorded a 
default and wanted it removed from her credit file. She also didnt agree theyd explained this 
to her properly. So, Mrs F referred her complaint to this service.
Having investigated Mrs Fs complaint, our adjudicator didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. Our adjudicator thought Nationwide were right to agree a nil payment plan, 
given Mrs Fs financial circumstances at the time. And also, that theyd correctly informed 
her of the default process.
Mrs F didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. She said shed called Nationwide when 
she received letters from them about her arrears and the default, and was told not to worry 
about them. She also said she wouldnt have ignored any letters if she thought it would result 
in a default being recorded. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Fs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
The FCA said firms would be entitled to charge a reasonable rate of interest where a 
customer requests a temporary payment freeze. In the event that a customer requires full 
forbearance that interest should be waived
Nationwide agreed to a payment deferral initially under the FCAs special guidance. Nothing 
adverse was reported on Mrs Fs credit file as a result. So, this appears to have complied 
with the FCAs guidance. 
Mrs F called Nationwide in August, when her payment deferral expired. Ive seen a transcript 
of that call. Mrs F suggests Nationwide called her. But the transcript is clear that Mrs F 
originated the call. Shed been prompted to contact them having received a number of text 
messages. Nationwide said the text messages informed her the account balance was in 
excess of the limit agreed. 
Mrs F said her circumstances hadnt improved and her household income was still reduced. 
She asked whether the payment holiday could be extended. Further discussions revealed 
that the excess on Mrs Fs account had resulted from interest applied during the payment 
deferral, which Nationwide were entitled to charge. Mrs F was concerned that ongoing 
interest charges meant her account balance would take a long time to repay.
Nationwide said there were other options available, but theyd need to review Mrs Fs 
income and expenditure first. This revealed a substantial shortfall in Mrs Fs income relative 
to her outgoings. So, Nationwide wouldnt have been able to agree a regular repayment as it 
appeared she couldnt safely afford that. Instead, they offered forbearance in the form of a 
six-month nil payment plan with no interest or charges. This is different from the payment 
deferral arrangement under the FCAs special guidance and was in response to Mrs Fs 
desire to address the ongoing interest costs and her lack of surplus income.
Mrs F says Nationwide didnt explain this would result in a default. Unfortunately, I dont 
agree with Mrs F here. The transcript clearly shows Nationwide did tell her a default notice 
would be issued for arrears which would impact her credit file and stay in place for six years. 
Mrs F still confirmed she wanted to proceed, during the call.
Arrears occur when a consumer doesnt make the contracted payments required under a 
Consumer Credit Act agreement. So, while Nationwide agreed to suspend repayments to 
support Mrs F, this still meant arrears would accumulate. Nationwides policy is to issue a 
default in the third (monthly) cycle of arrears occurring. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. Nationwides actions appear to comply 
with these guidelines, So, I cant reasonably say that theyve done anything wrong here.
Mrs F has referred to Nationwides website relating to payment holidays due to the global 
pandemic. She says this makes no reference to a default being recorded. But that particular web page is specific to the FCAs payment deferral guidance. It doesnt relate to payment 
plans where interest and charges are also waived.
Mrs F has told this service she called Nationwide, when she received arrears and default 
correspondence, and was told to ignore them. I think this was because they were part of the 
process Nationwide had already explained to Mrs F and shed accepted. The letters 
remained relevant albeit Nationwide understandably believed Mrs F was aware of why they 
were being sent.
Mrs F says she has since repaid the amount owed to Nationwide. She suggested she 
wouldve done this sooner if shed known Nationwide would register a default. I think the 
default notice sent to Mrs F was clear that if the amount required was paid by the due date, 
the default wouldve been stopped. So, I cant reasonably hold Nationwide responsible for 
Mrs F choosing not to pay the amount required.
I recognise that this situation will have been very distressing and worrying for Mrs F. But 
having reviewed all the information and evidence provided, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Nationwide have done anything wrong. I appreciate that Mrs F will be disappointed, but I 
shant be upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman