DRN-2709920
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that Nationwide Building Society provided them with incorrect 
information when redeeming their mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D had a mortgage with Nationwide. In 2020, they decided to pay off the 
remaining balance. After repaying the balance, they received a mortgage redemption letter, 
in September 2020. The letter confirmed the account was closed, and Nationwide would 
release their charge on the property within seven to ten working days. 
Weeks later, Mrs D and Mr D noticed the charge was still on the property. So, they contacted 
Nationwide about this. 
Nationwide said theyd provided incorrect information to Mrs D and Mr D in their letter of 
September 2020. They said the September 2020 letter should have informed Mrs D and Mr 
D that they needed to appoint a solicitor to release the charge, as Nationwide were unable to 
do this due to Scottish law. 
Mrs D and Mr D were unhappy about this and raised a complaint. They said they would incur 
costs by appointing a solicitor to release the charge. As a resolution, they wanted 
Nationwide to meet these costs. They also said the charge remaining on their property 
impacted their ability to apply for credit. 
Nationwide responded to the complaint in December 2020. They accepted theyd made an 
error but said Mrs D and Mr D would have had to appoint a solicitor in any event, so they 
didnt agree to meet these costs. They did however pay Mrs D and Mr D £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience their error caused. 
Mrs D and Mr D didnt accept this. They also said Nationwide caused delays when looking 
into their complaint. So, they brought a complaint to our service.  
An investigator here looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. He 
considered the impact the error had on Mrs D and Mr D, and felt £150 compensation was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs D and Mr D didnt agree. They maintained Nationwide should meet the costs to appoint 
a solicitor to release the charge. They also said the charge remaining on the property would 
have prevented them from obtaining further credit, so the compensation amount should be 
increased due to this. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs D and Mr D had demonstrated the charge remaining on the 
property impacted their ability to obtain credit. He remained that £150 compensation was 
fair. As Mrs D and Mr D remained unhappy, they asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
case. So, its now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept Nationwide made an error by failing to provide correct information to Mrs D 
and Mr D within their September 2020 letter. And so, like our investigator, I dont need to go 
onto consider this further. What remains in dispute is the impact Nationwides error had on 
Mrs D and Mr D, and whether the compensation amount of £150 is fair and reasonable. 
Ive gone onto consider this. And having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator, for broadly similar reasons, that £150 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. I accept this will come to disappoint Mrs D and Mr D, and so Ill 
explain why. 
Nationwide incorrectly told Mrs D and Mr D they were able to release the charge from the 
property. I therefore accept it would have been concerning for Mrs D and Mr D to find the 
charge hadnt been released after Nationwide said they would. 
Nationwides said an incorrect mortgage redemption letter was sent to Mrs D and Mr D after 
theyd paid the remaining mortgage balance. They said they sent the letter that applied to 
property owners with property in England and Wales, rather than Scotland. And Mrs D and 
Mr Ds property is in Scotland. They provided a copy of the wording for the redemption letter 
that should have been sent, which says Mrs D and Mr D were required to appoint a solicitor 
to release the charge. 
Ive given a lot of thought to this part of the complaint. Whilst I accept an error was made 
here, on balance I dont think this means Nationwide should cover the costs Mrs D and Mr D 
incurred in appointing a solicitor to release the charge. This is because Im satisfied Mrs D 
and Mr D would have incurred these costs in any event as Nationwide were unable to 
release the charge. So, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D and Mr D, I dont think 
Nationwides error caused them to suffer a financial loss in this respect. 
Mrs D and Mr D also said the error impacted their ability to obtain credit whilst the charge 
remained on the property. I also accept this would have come as a concern to them. But Ive 
not seen any evidence to show Mrs D and Mr D were refused credit as a direct result of the 
charge remaining on their property. So, Im unable to require Nationwide to increase the 
compensation amount in this respect. 
Overall, its accepted here that Nationwide made an error which caused Mrs D and Mr D to 
experience distress and inconvenience. Had the correct information been provided, Mrs D 
and Mr D would have been required to appoint a solicitor to release the charge in any event. 
But for the overall distress and inconvenience this has caused them, I think £150 
compensation is enough to fairly put matters right. So, I dont require Nationwide to do 
anything else as part of this complaint. 
I can also see Mrs D and Mr D raised concerns about the time it took Nationwide to respond 
to their complaint with a final answer. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and 
therefore something I am unable to consider as part of this complaint. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mrs D and Mr D. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve their dispute with Nationwide  can do for them.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman