DRN-4445629
The complaint
Miss C complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLCs (D&G), handling of her 
claim under her extended warranty insurance. 
What happened
Miss C held a policy with D&G for an extended warranty on her laptop and accessories. An 
issue developed with the charger, so Miss C made a claim. Miss C was unhappy with the 
way in which D&G handled her claim. Namely, that there were delays and service issues. 
Ultimately, Miss C said that D&G didnt replace the charger, and this led to Miss C laptop 
being written off. 
D&G settled the claim by issuing Miss C with a store voucher loaded with £380. D&G then 
cancelled Miss Cs policy. 
Miss C remained unhappy with the resolution as she had expected D&G to refund her policy 
premiums in full (not least due to the poor service she had experienced). But moreover, she 
had wanted D&G to make a cash settlement, which it didnt do. 
D&G issued its final response on 12 March 2021. Miss C was given her referral rights and 
referred her complaint on 18 June 2023. 
One of our investigators initially considered the jurisdiction point before any merits of the 
complaint. His view was that the final response on 12 March 2021, only addressed delays in 
the reimbursement of the charger costs. Further,  the outcome of the final response was that 
the laptop would be written off and a store voucher settlement was arranged. 
He said that this element of the complaint had been referred to our service out of time, And 
as D&G hadnt given our service permission to deal with the complaint, nor had he found 
that there had been any exceptional circumstances that could be applied, he was unable to 
consider this element further. 
However, our investigator said that Miss C had also complained to D&G on 8 September 
2022 about the cancellation of her policy, the refund of the premiums and the non-cash 
settlement. He felt that D&G hadnt addressed these issues in the final response, so he 
recommended that both parties provide responses to these issues. 
Miss C didnt agree with the view. She felt that exceptional circumstances applied as she 
had had a period of ill health. She also said that D&G had yet to respond to her letter of 8 
September 2022 and hadnt dealt with the policy cancellation and the refund of all her 
premium payments. So, she asked for an ombudsman to review. 
D&G issued a further final response dated on 15 September 2023, in which it said that it was 
unable to issue a cash settlement for the laptop, given Miss Cs policy terms and conditions, 
which stated that only a store voucher settlement was permitted. But, as a gesture of good 
will, it arranged for a cheque for £380 to be issued by way of settlement.  It also said that it 
hadnt received Miss Cs letter of 8 September 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Miss C, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive first considered the jurisdiction issue before dealing with any of the merits of the 
complaint. 
Miss C contacted our service on 18 June 2023. D&G issued its final response on 12 March 
2021. This meant that Miss C had until the 12 September 2021, in which to refer a complaint 
to us. 
Our rules say that, without business consent, I cant consider a complaint which is referred to 
this service more than six months after the business has sent its final response. This rule is 
called the Dispute Resolution rule. It can be found in the regulators handbook of rules and 
guidance (available on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website). 
There are exceptions to this rule. These exceptions are: if D&G consents for us to consider 
the complaint. That the failure to comply with the time limit was due to exceptional 
circumstances.
D&G has confirmed that it wont give our service permission to consider the complaint 
outside of the six-month rule.
Miss C didnt refer the complaint to our service within the time limit So, I am unable to 
consider the complaint, under this rule. 
But in certain situations, I am able to consider a complaint that had been brought to us 
outside of the six-month time limit, if there are exceptional circumstances. 
Exceptional circumstances are not defined under the rules. But an example given, is where a 
complainant has been incapacitated. Miss C was asked if there was any other further 
information that she wished me to consider. Although Miss C told and that she was 
vulnerable and that she had experienced bouts of ill health. I havent been provided with 
enough evidence that could support exceptional circumstances, under the rules. I also note 
that she continued to correspond with D&G during this time, so I think she wouldve likely 
been able to refer the complaint to our service within time. 
Consequently, the complaint regarding the delays in the reimbursement of the charger costs 
with the outcome being a settlement and the laptop being written off, are out of time. 
However, the final response didnt deal with the other complaints that were raised on 8 
September 2023, namely,  the cancellation of the policy, refund of the premiums and the 
settlement of the claim via a retail voucher rather than any other method. So, Ive looked into 
this further. Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, to see what the parties agreed to and what 
D&G was obligated to do following a claim on the policy. 
Miss C said that she didnt ask for the policy to be cancelled it was cancelled without her 
consent. 
The policy that Miss C held states that: if we arrange to replace your product (or to give you 
vouchers for a replacement) your policy will end immediately. No premium paid, will be 
refunded. As Miss C had made a claim under the policy, D&G did what she had agreed to, it 
cancelled the policy immediately. So, I cant see that D&G did anything wrong here, as it 
complied with the policy terms and conditions. 
Miss C believed that D&G ought to have refunded her premium payments. So, I asked D&G 
about this. First, according to the policy that Miss C held, if it was the manufacturer who had 
replaced the device, under the manufacturers guarantee, then Miss Cs premiums would be 
refunded. But in this complaint, it was D&G who issued the vouchers, so no premium 
payments would be refunded. 
In addition, D&G said that no premium payments were taken beyond 17 February 2021. 
Consequently, I cant see that D&G did anything wrong here. Or, under the policy terms, had 
to refund any premiums.
Finally, Ive looked into the settlement. I should say at the outset, that the policy states that 
were a claim is made, settlement can either be via replacement of the product or vouchers. I 
note that initially vouchers were given. But Miss C wasnt happy about this method of 
settlement and D&G, as a goodwill gesture, settled the claim by issuing a cheque of £380 on 
20 September 2023. 
As Miss B wanted a cash settlement, rather than a store voucher, I think that D&G has 
settled the claim in the way that Miss B wanted it to do. I asked Miss B whether she had 
received the cheque and received no reply. If Miss B hasnt received the cheque, I would 
advise that she contacts D&G to see if it is able to re-issue the cheque. But I think that D&G 
has been reasonable to settle the claim in this way, especially as it isnt a method within the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Further, Miss B was awarded £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Based 
on the evidence, this was paid to her via bank transfer on 26 July 2021. I have reviewed this 
in line with our strict guidelines on compensation and I think the amount of compensation 
paid, is reasonable and in line with our guidelines. So, I wont be asking D&G to increase this 
further. 
D&G said it didnt receive the letter of 8 September 2022. Miss C provided two proofs of 
postage but having looked at these they dont appear to relate to the letter of 8 September 
2022. I say this as both are dated in October and not sent to the correct D&G address. I 
think therefore that its more likely than not, that D&G didnt receive the letter. 
I acknowledge Miss Cs strength of feeling about this complaint. But, in the overall 
circumstances, I havent seen enough evidence to show that D&G acted unfairly. Im 
therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman