DRN-3399988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that UIA (Insurance) Limited unfairly declined a claim they made 
under their home insurance (buildings) policy.
References to UIA include their agents.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr and Mrs L made a claim under their home insurance policy after noticing 
movement and cracks in the retaining wall supporting their front garden. Mr L provided 
photographs showing the damage. He said he believed the issue had been caused by 
extreme weather, with heavy rainfall followed by a week of freezing. Mr L also mentioned 
that a telegraph pole had recently been erected in front of the wall and said he wasnt sure if 
this was linked to the damage too.
UIA appointed loss adjusters who arranged for the wall to be inspected. Following this, UIA 
declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said it couldnt consider the claim under the storm peril as it 
had determined that the movement and damage to the wall was due to the build-up of water 
in the ground behind it. As the ground became saturated, the increased weight of the water 
put increased pressure on the wall, causing it to move. It said it was likely the build-up of 
pressure was gradually operating over time, rather than due to a one-off event of storm.
Mr and Mrs L complained to UIA, but it maintained its position. It said the damage to the wall 
had not been caused by any of the specified perils insured under the policy. It acknowledged 
there had been some delays in responding to Mr L and made an offer of £250 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy, so they asked our service to consider their complaint. Our 
investigator looked into their concerns and thought UIAs offer was fair. She was satisfied 
that UIA had acted in line with the terms of the policy in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with our investigators view. Mr L said he believed that the 
installation of the telegraph pole was the initial trigger for the damage, which was facilitated 
by the storm peril. He also felt he and Mrs L were being penalised because the wall was of 
older construction. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. UIA says Mr and Mrs Ls claim isnt covered by an insured event. 
Its referred to the storm damage and accidental damage sections of the policy. So, Ive 
reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls policy to see what cover it provided. The policy provides cover for 
loss or damage, caused by an event listed in it. So, for Mr and Mrs Ls loss to be covered, it 
would need to fall under one of those events. If it doesnt  then the claim isnt covered and 
wont be settled. As UIA has mentioned, the only events possibly relevant to what happened 
here are the storm and accidental damage events.  
So, Ive needed to consider whether Mr and Mrs L have shown, on the balance of 
probabilities, that one of these events caused the damage. 
Storm damage
UIA says the damage to Mr and Mrs Ls wall isnt covered by the storm damage peril in the 
policy. Its referred to the following policy wording:
We consider a storm to be one incident of very strong winds, sometimes accompanied by 
rain, hail or snow. Heavy or persistent rain alone should not cause damage to a property in 
sound condition and does not constitute storm, unless there is a torrential downpour 
concentrated into a short period of time. It is important to remember that you are responsible 
for maintaining your property in a good state of repair; a property in a sound condition will 
withstand all but the most extreme weather.
Given the above, for the storm peril to apply in this incidence, there would need to be a one-
off event of the above weather conditions. Mr L says there was bad weather in January and 
February 2021, so Ive checked the weather reports from around that time, to see if there 
was a one-off storm event. The reports show there were some strong winds on a couple of 
occasions which were considered to be a dry storm. So, Im satisfied there was a storm 
around the time of the loss. But its important to add that, while there was also rainfall around 
that time, the weather reports dont suggest that there were any torrential downpours, or 
rainfall significant enough to be a storm event. 
As there was a dry storm surrounding the loss, Ive gone on to consider whether the damage 
to the wall is consistent with the type of damage youd seen from a storm. It is at least 
possible for a wall to move during a storm, for example in heavy winds. So, I think that its 
possible at least some of the damage was consistent with what Id expect to see from a 
storm. 
However, for the storm peril to apply, the main cause of that damage would need to be the 
storm. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think it is.
When Mr L notified UIA of the claim, he referred to the recent extreme weather, over the 
past month we have seen dry and warm turn to heavy rain and then a week of freezing. 
This suggests a longer period may have caused the damage, rather than a one-off event. 
And, while there were some strong winds around that time, Mr L didnt suggest these might 
have caused the damage. In addition, I havent seen anything else to suggest that the 
damage was caused by the one-off event of high winds.
UIA says it believes the movement to the wall was due to the build-up of water in the ground 
behind the wall. It says that the increased weight of the water put increased pressure on the 
wall, causing it to move. It says this build-up of pressure was gradually operating over a 
period of time as the ground became further and further saturated before cracks developed 
in the wall.UIA says the damage could be attributed to a gradually operating cause or general 
maintenance issue which is specifically excluded under the terms of the policy. And based 
on the information provided, Im persuaded thats the case.
I say this because the building contractor who inspected the wall described the cause of 
damage as follows:
The cause of damage is a little tricky to fully understand as I suspect the wall has always 
had a forward lean, [sic] The insured claims the cracks have only been eviedent [sic] for 
around 6 months. If this is the case then this would suggest possibly a build up of storm 
water behind the wall has caused the wall to fail and become further out of plumb, [sic] The 
brand new plyon [sic] now has the top section of the wall leaning against it which would 
support the insured claim as I cant imagine BT would have been able to install the new 
plyon [sic] so close against the wall else. I did not [sic] the wall doesnt [sic] have any 
drainage pipework passing through it, which supports the theroy [sic] of increase [sic] ground 
pressure from behind causing a forward movement and subsequent failure.
This highlights an issue that was building up over a period of time, rather than any one-off 
storm event. And Mr Ls own information, that the damage was noticed over a period of 
weeks or months, and following a contrast in weather, suggest its likely the loss wasnt due 
to a one-off storm event, but rather a build up over time, leading to deterioration of the wall. 
While the issue may have been at least exacerbated by bad weather, Im not persuaded that 
a storm was the main cause of damage. Rather this may have highlighted an already 
present issue with the wall. So, based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for UIA to 
have concluded that the damage to the wall wasnt covered under the storm peril of the 
policy. 
Accidental damage
UIA says it also considered whether Mr and Mrs Ls claim might be covered under 
accidental damage which is defined in the policy as:
Any damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by external means, which is not deliberate 
and is not specifically excluded under the terms of this policy.
UIA says the damage was caused by a gradually operating cause which is specifically 
excluded under the accidental damage peril. It says the exclusion wet or dry rot or any 
gradually operating process applies.
Mr L says he believes that the damage to the wall was caused by the installation of the 
telegraph pole in around September / October 2020. He says the storm peril did not cause 
the damage but instead facilitated it. Mr L says that during the inspection it was mentioned 
that the installation and particular vibrations when installing the pole could have caused a 
chain of events that damaged the wall.
Mr L says he arranged for the electricity company to come and look at the wall. They told 
him the cracks were clean and fresh, so had happened recently and were not a long term 
issue. They had occurred at some point since the installation of the post. Mr L has provided 
a photograph he obtained from the electricity company as evidence that the wall was upright 
with no lean in September 2020.
I dont doubt the damage to the wall occurred after the new telegraph pole was installed. But 
it doesnt automatically follow that the pole installation caused the damage. I havent seen any significant or firm evidence to point to vibrations from the installation causing the 
damage to the wall. Rather, its a theory Mr L has put forward, but isnt evidenced. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs L havent shown that the damage was caused accidentally. Im 
more persuaded it happened not as a result of an insured event, but gradually over time. 
And so, I dont think UIA acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr L feels hes being penalised because the wall is of older construction, with no weep- 
holes. Hes referred to wording on our website which says: we wouldnt say a customer was 
at fault for not adding weep-holes to a wall that had originally been built without them.
UIA has commented that the defective design, faulty workmanship or defective materials 
exclusion is relevant because the wall was built without the required weep holes. But this 
isnt the only reason its declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim. So, even if I was to conclude that it 
was unfair for UIA to decline the claim for that reason, it wouldnt make a difference to the 
outcome of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L, but I dont think theyve 
shown that the damage to the wall was caused by an event that was covered by the terms of 
their insurance policy. So, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for UIA to have 
declined their claim.
Customer service
UIA has acknowledged that it delayed responding to an email Mr L sent in March 2021. I can 
see it took UIA just over a month to respond. But UIA has offered Mr and Mrs L £250 for 
distress and inconvenience. And I think this is reasonable, as I think it fairly recognises the 
trouble and upset they experienced due to the delay.
Putting things right
UIA should pay Mr and Mrs L £250 if they accept my decision.
My final decision
UIA (Insurance) Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that UIA (Insurance) Limited should pay Mr and Mrs L £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman