DRN-1520574
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited led him to believe that if he moved from his 
employers group private medical insurance scheme to an individual policy, he would have 
the same cover for the same cost.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no evidence of what was discussed when Avivas representative visited 
Mr Ss former employer to discuss the group scheme. 
I think its reasonable to conclude that the follow-up email Avivas representative sent 
Mr S the day after the meeting (on 2 December 2016) was an accurate reflection of 
what was discussed.
The email from Aviva dated 2 December 2016 explained that group members would 
be entitled to transfer to an individual policy with no further medical underwriting - 
however benefits, terms and exclusions on another policy may be different. It didnt 
say that the cost of the policy would be the same. Im satisfied that this email made it 
clear to Mr S that the policy terms may not be the same as his former group scheme, 
and didnt mislead him about the cost.
Although Mr S is unhappy with the premium he was quoted by Aviva, this was a 
commercial decision made by Aviva. I note Aviva has already explained to Mr S what 
factors impact individual policies, as opposed to group schemes. Whilst I can 
understand Mr Ss disappointment with the price he was quoted, I dont think Aviva 
treated him unfairly. The factors that Aviva took into account when quoting the 
premium would have applied to any other customer with the same circumstances as 
him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman
