DRN-3152232
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how American International Group UK Limited (AIG) dealt with a 
claim against her travel insurance policy. Reference to AIG includes reference to its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs N had a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by 
AIG. The period of insurance was 7 May 2018 to 23 May 2018. 
On 9 May 2018, on arrival at her destinations airport, Mrs N discovered that her suitcase 
had been damaged and items of clothing, a bag, footwear, makeup and jewellery were 
missing. She complained to the airline. 
Initially, the airline told Mrs N that under its conditions of carriage, it wasnt liable for loss 
of her jewellery in checked baggage and referred her to her insurer. It paid Mrs N £108. 
Ill refer to that payment in more detail below. It also suggested arrangements for the 
repair of Mrs Ns suitcase.   
On 14 May 2018, Mrs N made a claim against her policy in relation to her damaged and 
lost items.   
In June 2018, the airline settled Mrs Ns claim on payment of £896. 
In March 2020, AIG settled Mrs Ns claim in relation to her personal belongings, except 
her jewellery. It said that the policy doesnt cover valuables (jewellery) in the 
circumstances that arose here. AIG paid Mrs N £827.02. That was after deductions for 
depreciation/wear and tear, the excess due under the policy and the payment of £108   
Mrs N had already received from the airline.  
On 12 May 2020, AIG told Mrs N that it had become aware that the airline had settled 
her claim on payment of £896 in June 2018. It asked Mrs N to repay the settlement of 
£827.02  it had paid. 
Mrs N doesnt think that its fair for AIG to ask her to repay £827.02. She says she 
provided AIG with all relevant information and it took too long to deal with her claim.   
Mrs N says that the payment from the airline didnt cover all her losses and was for her 
inconvenience caused by her damaged bag. Mrs N says that the airline said that she 
should make a separate claim to her insurer.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Mrs Ns loss was 
fully recovered from the airline before AIG settled her claim and that AIGs settlement put 
her in a better position than she was in before she suffered the loss. The investigator 
thought that AIG had acted fairly and reasonably in asking Mrs N to return the settlement 
it had paid. 
The investigator said that he hadnt seen any evidence that Mrs N told AIG about the 
airlines payment of £896. He said that, under the terms and conditions of the policy,   
Mrs N was obliged to return the settlement to AIG, as she hadnt suffered a loss 
following the airlines payments to her. 
The investigator didnt think that AIG had caused unavoidable delays in dealing with the 
claim, as it asked Mrs N for further information and there were long lapses of time before 
Mrs N provided her responses.  
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigator. She responded at some length, which I wont 
set out here in full. In summary, Mrs N said:
She disclosed to AIG that shed complained to the airline and that it had made a 
goodwill payment which wasnt designed to fully cover her losses; she sent all 
information AIG requested and it didnt ask her for a breakdown of payments. 
She believed that AIG and the airline share information about payments to 
customers.
The airline didnt cover her claim for jewellery and referred her to her insurer.
AIG took too long to deal with her claim.
AIG should be estopped from reclaiming the money after this length of time as 
doing so is to her detriment. Alternatively, she shouldnt have to repay the entire 
sum AIG paid in settlement of her claim as there were items not covered by the 
airlines goodwill payment which AIG should consider. 
The airlines payment of £108 was a goodwill payment in relation to the 
reproduction of bank statements, so shouldnt be taken into account. 
Shes had expenses and lost earnings in dealing with this matter. 
Mrs N asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:  
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
Valuables: [] jewellery []
GENERAL CONDITIONS
[]
4. You must give the claims department all the documents they need to deal with any claim. 
[]8. You must pay us back any amounts that we have paid to you which are not covered by 
the insurance.
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
General exclusions apply to all sections of this insurance. We will not cover the following:
[]
23 The costs of making any claim against Emirates.
SECTION B  PERSONAL BELONGINGS AND TRAVEL INCONVENIENCE
B.1 Personal Baggage
What you are covered for
We will pay for your personal baggage including items which are usually carried or worn by 
travellers (sic) for their individual use during a trip. We will pay up to the amount shown in 
the table of benefits for items owned (not borrowed or rented) by you which are lost, 
damaged, stolen or destroyed during your trip.
Please note
Payment will be based on the value of the property at the time it was lost, stolen 
or damaged. An allowance may need to be made for reasonable wear and tear 
and/or loss of value depending on the age of the property.
[]
Important information
[...]
You must carry valuables, passports and money with you when you are travelling.
[] 
You must provide the claims department with all the documents they need to deal with your
claim, including a police report, a property irregularity report, receipts for the items being
claimed as applicable.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AIG has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider whats most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ns complaint as I dont think that AIG treated her unfairly in 
asking her to return the settlement it paid. Ill explain why:
Its a well-established principle of insurance that an insured person should be put into 
the position they wouldve been in if the loss hadnt occurred and make neither a 
profit nor a loss. Thats known as the principle of indemnity. 
Mrs N made a claim for personal belongings and jewellery. AIG didnt include in its  
settlement any amount in relation to Mrs Ns claim for jewellery. It was entitled to do 
that in accordance with the terms of the policy, which provides that valuables  
which includes jewellery  must be with the insured and that wasnt the case here. 
 AIG also made deductions from the amounts Mrs N claim for depreciation. Under the 
terms of the policy, AIG is entitled to make a deduction for reasonable wear and 
tear. I think that the amounts it deducted are fair and reasonable. 
So, AIG assessed Mrs Ns claim at £1,005.03, after declining her claim for jewellery 
and deducting a fair amount for wear and tear. AIG deducted a payment of £108  
Mrs N had received from the airline and £70 excess due under the policy. 
AIG was entitled to deduct the excess due under the policy. I also think that AIG was 
entitled to deduct the payment of £108 Mrs N had received from the airline. Mrs N 
says that the airlines payment of £108 was a goodwill payment in relation to the 
reproduction of bank statements. I think, on balance, its more likely than not that the 
payment of £108 was part payment of Mrs Ns loss. It seems unlikely that the airline 
compensated Mrs N for the expenses involved in proving her claim and, in any 
event, its an unusually high amount for the reproduction of bank statements. 
  The airline made another payment to Mrs N for £896. Neither AIG nor Mrs N have 
provided a breakdown showing how the airline reached that figure. But I think, on 
balance, its safe to proceed on the basis that it related to the items damaged or lost 
as Mrs N had also made a claim to the airline. 
The payment of £896 by the airline is something AIG would wish to know about in 
assessing Mrs Ns claim, as its relevant in calculating her loss. I havent seen 
anything to show that Mrs N told AIG about the airlines payment of £896. Mrs N 
says that she sent to AIG all the information it requested, and it didnt ask her for a 
breakdown of payments. But I dont think its reasonable to expect AIG to ask Mrs N 
about a payment it had no knowledge of. 
Mrs N also says that she believed the airline and AIG shared information. Thats 
clearly the case, as the airline told AIG that it had made a payment to Mrs N. But I 
dont think that means that AIG should have known about the payment made by the 
airline before it went on to pay Mrs Ns claim.
Based on what Ive seen, I think that AIG is entitled to deduct from £1,005.03 not only 
the excess of £70 but also the payments of £108 and £896 by the airline. I think that 
if AIG had known about the payment of £896 to Mrs N by the airline it wouldnt have 
paid her £827.02. 
It follows that I dont think that AIG acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mrs N to 
return its entire payment of £827.02. Under the terms of the policy, Mrs N is obliged 
to repay any amounts AIG paid which are not covered by the insurance. In 
accordance with the principle of indemnity, Mrs Ns policy doesnt cover losses shes 
recovered from elsewhere.  
Mrs N says that AIG should be estopped from recovering the money. Estoppel is an 
equitable, as opposed to a contractual, defence, a shield and not a sword. I dont 
think that Mrs N is entitled to rely on estoppel in this case. Thats because the 
overpayment occurred because of her omission in the first instance, as she didnt tell 
AIG about the payment of £896 from the airline. In addition, AIG asked for the return 
of the overpayment quite soon after it was made. Mrs N hasnt shown that she 
altered her position to her detriment in any way before AIG tried to put matters right. 
 Mrs N says that AIG took too long to deal with her claim. I dont think it did. AIG 
asked Mrs N for information in May 2018, shortly after receiving her claim, and received a response in February 2019. AIG asked for further information again in 
February 2019 and received a response in March 2020. It made the payment to   
Mrs N shortly after that. 
Mrs N says that shes had expenses and lost earnings in dealing with this matter, but 
I dont think that alters the outcome here. A claim of this kind always involves some 
time and inconvenience. The policy requires that Mrs N provide AIG with 
documentation to support her claim. I dont think that AIG is required to compensate 
Mrs N for her time in dealing with the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman