DRN-4250131
The complaint
In summary, Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, gave him 
incorrect information about how his pension benefits would be affected if they were taken 
before the policy selected retirement age.
What happened
In September 2017, Prudential wrote to Mr B about his options for taking retirement benefits 
from the pension policy he had with it.
Mr B has made a number of complaints regarding this policy and the way Prudential 
calculated the value of it. In 2023 he made a further complaint about those issues and the 
information contained in the letter sent to him in September 2017. He said that he hadnt that 
letter. 
In its response to Mr Bs concerns, Prudential explained that it had already addressed MVRs 
in respect of his plan and wouldnt be commenting further. In relation to the wording in the 
September 2017 letter about five years from the selected retirement date (SRD); it said this 
was to highlight the fact that the guarantee on the policy would be proportionate to the date 
he actually took benefits. His policy was written to age 65 and premiums were paid to that 
date to secure the guarantee. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a decision explaining why it wasnt appropriate to 
look at Mr Bs concerns about the application of a market value reduction (MVR) in relation 
to his pension policy They decided that Mr Bs complaint about the application of an MVR to 
his policy wasnt one that should be considered by this service. 
One of our investigators then wrote to Mr B with his explanation as to why he didnt think 
Prudential had given him incorrect information regarding his pension. Mr B didnt agree with 
the investigators assessment, so the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised a number of concerns regarding his pension policy with Prudential. Those 
other issues have been considered by this service, so I wont revisit them here. 
In essence, Mr B thinks the nature of his occupation and his being self-employed; meant that 
he could retire before his normal retirement date. And Mr B thinks that as a result this meant 
that the information Prudential provided to him in its letter sent to him in September 2017 
about the impact on the guaranteed benefits his pension had, if they were taken/ moved 
more than five years before the retirement date was wrong, and he says they should have 
been proportionately reduced. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy do say:
If you are in an occupation (approved by the Inland Revenue) in which it is customary to 
retire before age 60, an appropriately adjusted pension can commence at the customary 
retirement age (or at any time after that up to age 75)..
When Mr B applied to take out the pension, he completed an application form which stated 
his occupation. Prudential has provided a copy of this. Mr B thinks that his occupation was 
one that had a customary retirement age allowed a retirement prior to age 60. 
I think its particularly relevant here that the terms and conditions correctly in my opinion, 
refer to the fact that any such customary retirement ages need to be His Majestys Revenue 
and Customs (HMRC) approved. That isnt a matter that Prudential has the authority to 
decide. 
Prescribed occupations for the type of pension Mr B had, are set out by HMRC in the 
Pensions Tax Manual. Mr Bs occupation isnt one that is on the list of prescribed 
occupations set out by HMRC. So, I dont agree that Mr B had a customary retirement age 
which meant that he was entitled to an appropriately adjusted pension, and that the 
information contained in the letter sent in September 2017, was therefore wrong.
I do understand that Mr B feels very strongly about this issue in relation to his Prudential 
pension. And I understand that my decision will be disappointing to him. But for the reasons 
Ive set out above, I am not going to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is to not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman