DRN-3360504
The complaint
Mr C is complaining about the way Metro Bank PLC dealt with his request to make 
an international payment.
What happened
Mr C holds a Cash account with Metro Bank. He opened his account in a branch of 
Metro Bank in 2014.
In May 2021 Mr C tried to make an international payment from his account online. But 
the transaction was declined.
Mr C called Metro Bank and they told him he wasnt able to make international payments 
because the type of account he had didnt offer that feature. Mr C didnt think this 
explanation was enough. And he thought the advisers hed spoken to were being 
obstructive and preventing him from taking things further. He complained to Metro Bank.
Metro Bank replied to Mr Cs complaint to say theyd given him the correct information 
about making an international payment, so they didnt think theyd made a mistake.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think his complaint should be 
upheld. Mr C didnt agree, so his complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 March 2022. I provisionally decided not to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. This is what I said then.
Mr Cs given us detailed information about his complaint, over the phone and in writing. Id 
like to reassure him Ive read and considered everything hes said. During the course of 
his complaint hes raised some general questions about the operation of his accounts with 
Metro Bank and with other providers. But my decision will focus on the main point of the 
complaint hes brought to us , as Ive set out above
I can see that Mr C feels very strongly about his complaint and Im sorry to disappoint 
him. But having considered everything very carefully, Ive provisionally decided not to 
uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the important information summary which would have been given to Mr C 
when he opened his Cash account. The summary sets out that sending money outside 
the UK isnt a feature thats available on this type of account. And this is also explained on 
Metro Banks website. So I think the information Metro Bank gave him about international 
payments not being available on his account was correct.
Metro Bank are entitled to make a commercial decision about what services they offer to 
consumers. And they dont need to explain to consumers why theyve chosen not to 
provide some services. I havent seen anything to suggest Metro Bank misled Mr C about 
the services his account provides. So, I dont think Metro Bank have made a mistake, or 
treated Mr C unfairly, by not processing his international payment.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr C and Metro Bank. Its clear Mr C wanted more 
information about why his account didnt allow international payments. But I dont think 
Metro Bank needed to give any more information than they did.
I can understand why Mr C felt Metro Banks advisers were repeating the same 
information theyd already given. But I think this was because there wasnt much they 
could add to what theyd already told him. And I dont think they spoke to Mr C rudely or 
discourteously, or were obstructive.
I can see that this was a frustrating experience for Mr C. But I dont agree Metro Bank 
have treated Mr C unfairly, so Im not going to ask them to do anything more here.
Metro Bank responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing to add.
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said, in summary:
he thinks a particular adviser at Metro Bank handled his call correctly and this shows 
how the other advisers didnt;
Id said in my provisional decision that Metro Bank were doing this for business reasons, 
and we shouldnt speculate about what the reason might be. He doesnt want 
speculation, he wants Metro Bank to be punished for wasting his time;
he thinks when theres a customer service breakdown between a customer and a bank 
they should automatically be passed to someone more senior of the calibre of the 
particular adviser he eventually spoke to; and
he doesnt think we should be putting words into Metro Banks mouth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr C doesnt think Ive understood his complaint because Ive not set out all his 
complaint points in detail. Im sorry that Mr C thinks Ive not understood things properly. But 
Im not obliged to answer every point Mr Cs made. Ive considered everything hes said but 
my role is to fairly decide the complaint and, in doing so, I have focussed on what I believe to 
be the crux of the matter  did Metro Bank treat him fairly?  
Our role isnt to fine or punish a business, or to change the way they act in future. Mr C 
thinks Metro Bank should have a different process for handling calls from their customers, 
but how they run their business is up to them  its not something I can interfere with. 
Perhaps more importantly though, I dont think Metro Bank have wasted Mr Cs time, 
because they were clear in their conversations with him that making international payments 
wasnt a service they offered on his account.
In my provisional decision I said Metro Bank are entitled to make a commercial decision 
about what services they offer, and they dont need to explain why theyve chosen not to 
offer some services. I dont need to know why theyve chosen not to offer this service to 
reach a decision here. I dont think Im putting words in Metro Banks mouth by explaining 
this point.Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive listened to the call hes referring to, and I understand he 
was happier with the way this particular call was handled. But I still dont agree this means 
the previous advisers he spoke to were rude or obstructive. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but having considered his response, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained 
here and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman