DRN-4388892
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds offer of compensation for the way it 
handled his claim and the service offered. 
What happened
Mr S has private medical insurance with AXA. In March 2023, he received a benefit 
statement from AXA detailing a recent payment itd made for some treatment hed received. 
Mr S complained to AXA because it had made an error on the statement. The statement said 
Mr S received major day-patient treatment on 7 March. Mr S explained to AXA this was 
incorrect because hed actually received that treatment on 1 February. He explained there 
was another procedure completed in March, however, the two were unrelated, and so he 
asked AXA to amend the statement. 
Mr S said it took AXA too long to correct the issue and that it took around three months for 
this to happen. Mr S said AXA initially gave him incorrect information about how the error 
occurred and that he feels it should pay him more compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr S said he had to put in a lot of time to rectify AXAs mistake, he 
also had to contact the treating hospital for more information about the invoice in question.
AXA eventually acknowledged its mistake in June. Until then, itd repeatedly said the issue 
originated at the hospitals end. It said the hospital had invoiced using an incorrect code  
which wasnt the case. Itd simply been incorrectly categorised by AXA. Because of the 
mistake, AXA also mistakenly told Mr S the treatment claimed wasnt covered. However, this 
was corrected in June when it realised the mistake had occurred. It offered £75 
compensation as an apology. 
Our investigator thought AXAs position was fair. He said the administrative error was 
relatively minor and said the offer was fair on that basis. He acknowledged there were other 
issues throughout the claims journey that had been considered outside of this complaint and 
compensation paid. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators position on this complaint. He said it was a lengthy 
undertaking for him to get things corrected and that the compensation is less than our 
minimum guideline criteria. Mr S also commented that AXA previously paid him more 
compensation for an issue that was less impactful and therefore suggested it should pay 
more for this problem because its more serious. And so, its now for me to make a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Im satisfied AXAs remedial action in this case 
and the offer of £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience are fair. Ill explain 
why.
Mr S highlighted our compensatory award guidelines and said AXA should pay at least £100 
for this error. I acknowledge his arguments here, but Im not persuaded by them. I accept our 
guidelines give an indication on compensatory awards, but I should perhaps explain that not 
all complaints require financial compensation. I accept its not always hassle-free using 
services, as was the case here, however, there are times when a small monetary award and 
an apology is enough to put things right. 
I think thats the case here because I too consider the issue to be relatively minor. AXA 
accepted it made the mistake after previously blaming the hospital. It eventually listened to 
Mr S as he discovered the error and made the correction. This was an administrative error 
where an incorrect code was entered. I wouldnt have necessarily made an award for that in 
isolation, however, there were other issues that affected Mr S which when considered in the 
round, make it appropriate in the circumstances. This included the time he spent 
investigating the problem with the treating hospital, as well as the misinformation given by 
AXA on whether the treatment was in fact covered once itd been corrected. 
I understand the connection Mr S is making about the other complaint he made to AXA 
about the time it took to investigate the issue, because he received more compensation to 
resolve it. And Mr S felt as though this was a relatively minor issue, when compared with the 
complaint Im considering. But thats not reason enough to persuade me more compensation 
is payable. I have to consider the specific circumstances on this complaint in isolation. His 
other complaint was dealt with separately and connot be considered as part of this final 
decision. 
AXA eventually corrected the issue in June and paid £75  which I thought was fair. Other 
than Mr S having to invest time into obtaining the invoice from the treating hospital, I 
consider the remaining action taken to be within the minor level of inconvenience and no 
further compensation is warranted in these particular circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman