DRN-1865112
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1993. Ms R says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
In 1993 Ms R transferred a BoS mortgage into her sole name. At the time she was sold a 
PPI policy.
The policy cost £34.50 per month and wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the 
monthly mortgage repayment for up to 24 months if Ms R was unable to work due to an 
accident or sickness. It would also pay the monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Ms R had 
lost her job. The policy was cancelled in 1997.
Ms R says BoS added the policy to her mortgage without her knowledge.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
BoS hasnt been able to send us the paperwork from the sale. This isnt unusual and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what  both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms R has told us he cannot recall the PPI being discussed with her at all. She believes it 
must have been set up without her knowledge.
It seems likely the policy was set up following a branch meeting about the mortgage transfer.
From experience I think its unlikely the policy could have been set up entirely without        
 Ms Rs input. There would have been some questions around eligibility that would need to 
have been answered before it could have been put in place by the insurer. And the 
premiums would have had to have been paid, either direct from Ms Rs current account or by 
being take with the mortgage repayment.
If the premiums were taken from the current account they would have appeared on Ms Rs 
monthly statements. And if they had been taken with the mortgage repayment they would have appeared on Ms Rs annual mortgage statements. And I think its likely shed have 
questioned these if the policy was set up without her knowledge.
I am aware Ms R feels strongly that the PPI was set up without her consent. But I have to 
take into account that these events took place 27 years ago. Weighing everything up I think 
its most likely Ms R was made aware the PPI was optional and she chose to take it out. 
Although at the time it was likely to have seemed a relatively straightforward transaction so 
after so many years I can understand why Ms R might not recall this.
BoS has told us that its adviser should have recommended the PPI to Ms R. In which case it 
had to check that the PPI was right for her and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances in 1993 I think that it was. I say this because:
Ms R was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example 
she didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And she wasnt in 
an unusual employment situation which might not have been covered.
Ms Rs employers wouldve paid her sick pay if shed become too unwell to work. But this 
particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to two 
years. This is likely longer than Ms R s full sick pay would last. So I still think Ms R  wouldve 
found the benefit useful if she had become too unwell to work, particularly if she was unwell 
for a lengthy spell.
And if Ms R lost her job the monthly benefit would mean she could use any redundancy pay 
for other living costs.
Ms R did have some savings but she had chosen to keep these intact rather than use them 
to reduce her mortgage. And the PPI policy would mean she didnt have to use her savings 
to pay the monthly mortgage repayment if she couldnt work.
Ms R cant recall being given any information about the policy. I cant know after all these 
years exactly what she was told or given at the time. So its possible the information BoS 
gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it 
out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Ms R off taking out the cover.
In summary, I think its likely BoS made Ms R aware the policy was optional and she chose 
to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy BoS recommended was right for her. 
And I dont think any clearer or more complete information wouldve made her act differently 
and decline it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman