DRN-3551575
The complaint
Mr G complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Calpe, I refer to that insurance company and I include the broker and others 
insofar as I hold Calpe responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from February 2021, Mr G took out a policy with Calpe through a broker. He  
had 2 years no claims discount (NCD). Any claim was subject to an excess of £1,500.00.
Unfortunately, in late March 2021, Mr Gs vehicle and a third partys van were involved in an 
incident. There was no exchange of details at the scene.
In early July 2021, the third party made a claim that Mr G had caused damage to the van. 
Calpe contacted Mr G about it. 
At first Calpe proposed to split liability 50/50 with the third party. On about 10 January 2022, 
the third party declined to settle on that basis. 
Calpe paid the third partys claim as follows:
vehicle repairs £1,820.54
motor engineer £   315.12
total £2,135.66
Calpe asked Mr G to pay the excess of £1,500.00. 
In February 2022, Mr G complained to Calpe that it hadnt done enough to check the amount 
of the third partys claim.
By a final response dated April 2022, Calpe turned down the complaint. Mr G brought his 
complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Calpe had done anything wrong. She said that shed seen a report and invoice for 
£1,820.54, which she sent to Mr G.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The way the third partys repairs have been priced is incorrect.
The report may be fabricated. He has have spoken with his mechanic and legal 
advisors who have all said this price is extortionate. 
Having done this months after the accident is fraudulent.
Calpe did not investigate the claim properly as the costs just simply do not add up.
They still have not provided him with details of the third party, number plate of the 
van and insurance details. So he cant pursue a claim against the third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim involving a third party. The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt find such terms 
unfair. But, where the policyholder complains, we consider whether the insurer has applied 
the policy term fairly.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from each driver to decide the extent to which either 
of them is responsible for causing injury or damage.
Calpes policy terms included the following: 
(i) The Insured Person (or the Insured Persons agent) shall not make any admission 
of liability or offer or promise of payment but shall permit the Company to have sole
conduct of all negotiations or legal proceedings.
(ii) The Underwriters shall be entitled to use the name of the Insured Person for the
purpose of resisting or enforcing any claim and the Insured Person shall give to the
Underwriters all reasonable assistance in connection therewith and shall act in all
cases in the best interests of the Underwriters.
 (iii) The Underwriters can conduct the defence, admit negligence for any accident
or claim on Your behalf. The Underwriters will also exchange information with
other parties involved with the incident or claim and to settle any claim or part of
the claim without reference to the Insured Person. If there is a dispute between
the Underwriters and the Insured Person, the settlement of the claim shall be as
if it were made with the agreement of the Insured Person, regardless that such
settlement may be made without admission of liability. We will settle all claims on
the best terms available and keep the claim payment to a minimum as much as is
possible. You will be liable to pay/repay Your Excess Amount on the basis of such
settlement notwithstanding that you may not agree with the level of third party
damage or injury which has been incurred, claimed and paid for.
The effect of that term was that, on a question of how to deal with a claim involving a third 
party, Calpes view would prevail over Mr Gs.
Calpes file contains a vehicle inspection report on the third partys damaged vehicle dated 
mid-April 2021. From its file, I find that Calpe noted the third partys delay in making the 
claim. However, Calpe received the claim and it had to investigate and decide how to deal 
with it. 
Calpes file includes documents (such as the inspection report and letter of claim) that 
contain the name and address of the third party.  
Calpe noted some inconsistency in Mr Gs initial report and his later report of events.Calpe reviewed photographic evidence of Mr Gs vehicle and the third partys vehicle. Calpe 
instructed an engineer who considered the nature and location of damage and repairs to 
each vehicle.
Calpe reviewed the third partys costs of repair and decided that they were reasonable. Mr G 
hasnt sent us enough evidence to show that the costs were unreasonable, let alone 
fabricated.
Im satisfied that Calpe did a reasonable and proportionate investigation.
Calpe weighed up the different versions of events. It decided that  rather than incur the cost 
and risk of court proceedings  it would settle the third partys claim. 
I dont consider that Calpe has done anything wrong by not giving Mr G details of the third 
party and the van. And in my view, the policy term quoted above and Calpes settlement of 
the third partys claim preclude Mr G from making any claim against the third party.
I appreciate that Calpes decision has had adverse financial consequences for Mr G. 
Nevertheless Im satisfied that Calpes decision was within the policy term quoted above and 
didnt treat Mr G unfairly. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Calpe to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman