DRN-3663278
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Call Assist Ltd (CAL) and the service they provided when she called 
them to arrange recovery following a tyre blow out on her car.
What happened
Mrs A held a breakdown policy that was purchased through a broker, who Ill refer to as D, 
and handled by CAL. On 13 March 2022, Mrs As tyre blew as she was driving on the 
motorway with her two children at around 5pm. So, she called CAL to make a claim on her 
policy.
But when she did, CAL were unable to find her policy details. So, Mrs A was told shed need 
to pay the costs of the recovery upfront and reclaim this amount later. These costs were 
reimbursed. 
CAL arranged for someone to attend Mrs As car, to attempt a tyre replacement. But this 
couldnt be completed as Mrs As space saver wasnt the correct size. So, CAL arranged for 
Mrs A to be towed to a place of safety, which was completed by around 7.30pm. But Mrs A 
asked to be recovered to her home address. And this wasnt completed until 3.30am the 
following morning and had to be completed using a taxi, with her car remaining at a service 
station. Mrs A was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs A didnt think CAL had handled her claim fairly, as she thought a taxi couldve been 
arranged much sooner. She explained how the situation had caused her stress and upset as 
a vulnerable woman with two young children. Mrs A was also unhappy with the fact her 
policy couldnt be found initially, as well as the communication she received when she 
attempted to raise a complaint. So, she wanted to be compensated for the above.
CAL responded and upheld Mrs As complaint, paying her £50 to recognise the upset shed 
been caused. But Mrs A thought this offer was made as a goodwill gesture, with further 
compensation due to be offered. And it wasnt. Mrs A remained unhappy, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought CAL had acted fairly 
by reimbursing Mrs A the costs of the call out and that this fairly resolved the initial problem 
finding her policy. But they thought CAL had delayed Mrs A returning home by not arranging 
for another truck to transport her from a place of safety to her home address. Or, by 
arranging a taxi sooner when it became apparent one was unlikely to be found at the time. 
So, they recommended CAL pay Mrs A another £100 to recognise the inconvenience she 
was caused.
CAL accepted this recommendation. But Mrs A didnt. She didnt think the offer was enough 
to compensate her for the upset she was caused. She thought a taxi couldve been arranged 
six hours before it was and that this, considered with the fact she herself has health issues 
and was alone with two children, meant the compensatory amount should be higher to 
reflect this. As Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I think it would be useful for me to explain exactly what Ive been able to consider. I 
recognise Mrs A has raised several concerns about the way CAL handled and responded to 
her complaint, after breakdown. But complaints handling is an unregulated activity and so, 
its not something our service has the jurisdiction to decide upon. Because of this, I havent 
thought about the way CAL handled Mrs As complaint any further and it hasnt impacted the 
decision that Ive reached.
What I have been able to consider is the service CAL provided when they handled Mrs As 
breakdown claim, and whether I think this was fair.
Its not in dispute that, when Mrs A first called CAL, they were unable to locate her policy. 
And its not in dispute that this was incorrect and Mrs A did have a live policy in place. So, I 
recognise the upset and confusion this wouldve caused Mrs A at the time. This meant Mrs A 
had to pay for the recovery costs upfront, which I appreciate wouldve been a significant 
unexpected expense.
But I can see that in the days after the breakdown, CAL located Mrs As policy and 
reimbursed Mrs A the full amount she paid. And Ive seen no evidence to show the initial 
financial outlay from Mrs A placed her in a position where she was unable to afford other 
bills and financial commitments. So, while I do think CAL made an error here, I think theyve 
resolved this error in a fair and reasonable way. Because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then thought about how CAL handled the recovery of Mrs As car, after she agreed to 
cover the recovery costs. From what I can see, CAL have already accepted their service fell 
below a reasonable standard, as they have paid Mrs A £50 to recognise. While I appreciate 
Mrs A feels she was misled about this payment during the complaint process, Ive already 
explained above that any issues about the complaint handling itself is unable to be 
considered. I note CAL have also accepted to pay Mrs A a further £100, following the 
recommendation of our investigator.
So, I dont think its in dispute that CAL acted unfairly. And because of this, I dont intend to 
discuss this any further here. Instead, Ive focused on what I believe to be the main area of 
dispute which is what CAL should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Ive considered the timeline of Mrs As recovery at length, to understand where I think CAL 
created delays that couldve been avoided.
Ive seen that, following Mrs As claim, CAL were able to send roadside assistance to Mrs A 
in around an hour. But this assistance was unable to fit a new tyre, as the space saver Mrs A 
had was the incorrect size for the car she had. I dont think it would be fair for me to hold 
CAL responsible for this, as they were unable to control the space saver Mrs A had 
available.Once CAL were made aware of the failed repair, I can see they then turned to ensuring Mrs 
A was recovered to a place of safety as a priority. And this included finding, and arranging, 
for Mrs As car to be towed. I appreciate this wouldve take some time to find and arrange 
and so, I think CAL acted reasonably be ensuring this was completed by around 7.30pm.
But from here, I think there were some delays that couldve been avoided. I can see that 
CAL struggled to find a recovery truck that would be able to transport Mrs A back to her 
home address as she wished. While I must consider the fact CAL did offer alternative 
accommodation for the night and Mrs A chose not to use this, I do think a taxi couldve been 
arranged sooner than around 1.30am. 
Factoring in a reasonable amount of time CAL wouldve needed to find a recovery service 
that would complete this journey and the fact it was a Sunday evening so outside of what 
would be considered standard call out hours, I think Mrs A was unreasonably delayed by 
around 4 to 5 hours. 
Our investigator recommended CAL pay Mrs A an additional £100, taking the total 
compensation received to £150, to recognise this delay. And I think this additional payment 
is a fair one, that falls in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made.
I think it fairly considers the upset and inconvenience Mrs A wouldve been caused due to 
the time delay, as well as the worry she wouldve felt for the safety of her two children 
throughout this. But I think it also factors in the fact it was the incorrect space saver that led 
to the failed repair. And, that CAL recovered Mrs A to a place of relative safety within a 
relatively short period of time, considering the time of day and location. So, because of the 
above, I think CAL should pay Mrs A an additional £100.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs A was hoping for. And I want to reassure her Ive 
considered all of the comments shes made and my decision is in no way intended to 
disregard the obvious upset shes been caused by the situation. But I think the additional 
£100 is a fair one that falls in line with our services usual approach in this situation, while 
also factoring in her individual circumstances at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs As complaint about Call Assist Ltd and I direct 
them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs A an additional £100 to recognise the upset and inconvenience she was 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman