DRN-1366866
The complaint
Ms B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms B was sold the PPI over the phone in 2003, sometime after taking out a credit card. 
Capital One said the PPI wasn't mis-sold, but refunded some commission and profit 
share that it received. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed, so I've been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons. 
From what we know about how Capital One sold PPI in this type of call, I think Capital One 
made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI and Capital One chose to take it out. 
But I can understand if Ms B doesnt remember this given how long ago it was. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms B got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ms B chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Ms B 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Ms B off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Capital One has paid back some cost of the PPI to Ms B because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms 
B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms B, that was unfair. To put that right, Capital 
One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman