DRN-2062239
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited handled and then rejected 
his claim under a joint life and critical illness policy. 
This complaint has been brought by Mr Es representative, Mrs O, but for ease Ill refer to 
Mr E throughout.
 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr E applied for this policy with his wife Mrs E through an IFA which was 
due to start on 11 December 2018. 
On 1 November 2018 Mrs E gave birth. On 22 November 2018 Mrs E was admitted to 
hospital and was given a CT scan. This showed abscesses on her liver so she was given 
antibiotics and then returned home. A CT scan in January 2019 showed the lesions had 
grown and Mrs E was diagnosed with cancer in February 2019.
 
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs E contacted Aviva to make a critical illness claim under their 
policy. Aviva investigated the claim and asked for the medical records so it could investigate 
the claim. 
Very sadly Mrs E died on 13 November 2019. 
After receiving and considering Mrs Es medical records Aviva decided to decline the claim 
in January 2020. It said that because Mrs Es symptoms began before the policy had started 
it shouldve been made aware of the change in her medical circumstances. And if it had 
been made aware it wouldve decided to postpone her cover until the investigations had 
been completed. It added that it then wouldve declined Mrs E cover when she was 
diagnosed with cancer.
Mr E raised a complaint with Aviva. He said Avivas decision was unfair as they were never 
told to review the answers they gave on the application and didnt receive any of the post 
sale documentation asking them to keep Aviva updated with any changes in their medical 
circumstances. He added that he had no idea how ill Mrs E was when they took out the 
policy and that they thought the investigations were in relation to her pregnancy. Aviva 
investigated the complaint and sent a final response  dated 30 April 2020  upholding its 
decision to not accept the claim. 
Mr E remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
reviewed the complaint. She didnt think Aviva had declined the claim unfairly. But she did 
contact Aviva to ask why it hadnt stopped the monthly direct debit after the policy was 
cancelled and to ask why all the premiums it had taken since the policy started hadnt been 
refunded. Aviva said it had failed to cancel the direct debit and hadnt refunded the 
premiums. So, it offered Mr E £250 in compensation for this error. Our Investigator felt this 
was a fair offer. 
Mr E disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review this complaint. He said Avivas 
e-mails and documentation sent in the post werent received and he had checked the late 
Mrs Es inbox and it didnt contain an e-mail from Aviva. So, he said he reasonably felt he 
had a valid life insurance policy and they hadnt misrepresented to Aviva. He added that 
Aviva continuing to take payments until June 2020 was further evidence the policy was valid. 
He also feels Aviva failed to make reasonable adjustments for him throughout the claim and 
wants it to confirm if it has added the claim to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to pass on my condolences to Mr E and his family. I was very sorry to read about the 
tragic circumstances of Mrs Es death. I can only imagine the past few years mustve been 
incredibly difficult for him and his family.  
After carefully weighing up all the evidence presented by both sides, Im afraid Im not going 
to ask Aviva to accept this claim. I know this will be very disappointing news for Mr E. I want 
to assure him and his family that I didnt take this decision lightly. While I dont want to add to 
his distress, I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly by turning down the claim. 
Ive looked at and considered all the evidence and points Mr E has provided  and Id like to 
assure him that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, 
but because Im focusing instead on whats important to the outcome.
In reviewing this case Ive considered Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer. 
In order to ask Aviva to accept the claim under this policy, I need to be satisfied it has made 
an error and has treated Mr E unfairly. And Id like to make it clear that Ive only considered 
the actions of Aviva in this final decision. Any issues with the advice given to Mr E during the 
application process should be raised as a separate complaint against his IFA. 
When completing the application Mr and Mrs E answered No to the following question;
"Apart from any conditions youve already told us about in this application, within the last two 
years have youBeen referred to, treated at or had any investigations at a hospital or 
clinic?"
Im satisfied that when the application was completed this question was answered correctly. 
So, there wasnt a misrepresentation at that point. But I need to consider whether Aviva has 
fairly declined the claim when it says it shouldve been made aware of the changes in the 
late Mrs Es medical circumstances before the policy started. 
Aviva was given instructions by Mr Es IFA to start the policy on 11 December 2018. Ive 
seen the evidence from Aviva that shows they sent documentation by e-mail and post to 
them on this date. And that this clearly says it should be informed of any changes to the answers theyd already given between submitting the application and the policy starting. 
Otherwise the policy could be cancelled, or a claim declined. 
I note the late Mrs E wasnt diagnosed with the liver abscesses until she was discharged 
from hospital on 6 December 2018 and cancer until February 2019. But the claim form 
completed by Mrs Es doctor states she first consulted about her condition on 20 November 
2018 and had various investigations in hospital before the policy started. So, Im satisfied 
these investigations meant Mr and Mrs Es answer to the above question was no longer 
correct.  
I understand the points Mr E has made and the reasons why the policy documentation 
wasnt received by e-mail or post. But Im satisfied Aviva took the necessary action its 
required to do. Its standard industry practice for Aviva to ask if there had been any changes 
to the information it was given since the application. And I wouldnt expect Aviva to call Mr E 
to make sure the documents had arrived or to reiterate to him when he called to query a 
policy payment that he must make sure Aviva was aware of any changes in their 
circumstances. 
So, Im satisfied there has been a misrepresentation here. 
Aviva has treated this mis-representation as careless. Im not satisfied Mr E deliberately or 
recklessly misrepresented here. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise his actions as 
careless. And under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has made a careless 
misrepresentation, Aviva can take whatever action it wouldve taken if the correct answers 
had been given at the point of application. Based upon the evidence Aviva has provided 
from its underwriting manual and senior underwriter, Im satisfied Aviva wouldve postponed 
the policy until the investigations had been completed. As Mrs E was diagnosed with cancer 
in February 2019, Im satisfied that no cover wouldve been provided to her under this policy. 
So, Avivas decision to retrospectively decline the claim is fair and in line with the remedies 
set out in CIDRA. 
Continuing to take premiums and not refunding these to Mr E
I can understand why Mr E wouldve been confused and frustrated with the direct debit not 
being cancelled by Aviva and then when it failed to refund his premiums. So, I agree Aviva 
should pay him some compensation. I agree with the investigator that the £250 is 
reasonable and in line with what Id expect in similar cases. 
I note Mr E has also raised an issue with Aviva still taking premiums whilst the claim was 
being considered. If the premiums arent paid then Aviva does have the right to no longer 
consider a claim and potentially cancel the policy. So, Id expect it to continue to take 
premiums whilst it was still considering the claim.
Reasonable adjustments?
Ive listened to the calls provided by Aviva where it discussed the claim with Mr E. Having 
done so, Im not satisfied Aviva were made aware of Mr Es mental health issues. So, I cant 
say it has treated him unfairly or discriminated against him whilst it dealt with the claim if it 
wasnt aware of his health at the time. 
I note Mr E asked if this claim had been added to the CUE database. Aviva has confirmed 
the claim isnt recorded on the CUE database. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to take any further action here. Putting things right
I agree with the Investigator that Aviva should pay Mr E £250 for not cancelling his direct 
debit and failing to return his premiums. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld in part. Aviva Life and Pensions UK 
Limited should pay Mr E £250 trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman