DRN-4139087
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way his credit card has been administered by Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money.
What happened
Mr K has a credit card with Virgin Money. In late 2021 Mr K updated his address with Virgin 
Money but whilst the road name and number plus post code were amended, the city name 
was not. 
Last year, a new system was introduced to manage Virgin Money credit cards following a 
migration from the original platform used. In April 2022 Virgin Money issued a final response 
to Mr K that said it had introduced a mobile app for customers to manage their accounts and 
suggested he download it. Virgin Money also said Mr K could continue to manage his 
account over the phone, using online forms or in branch. 
Mr K has explained he experienced difficulties registering the mobile app and tried to contact 
Virgin Money. But Mr Ks told us he found it difficult to get through due to call wait times and 
wasnt able to speak with Virgin Money. 
Mr K says that following the systems migration he stopped receiving credit card statements. 
But around the same time, Virgin Money started to successfully collect direct debit payments 
of £100 a month. Mr K has explained that as he lost access to his account online he was 
unable to review his account activity and what payments were due. 
In August 2022 Mr K called Virgin Money to request a new credit card. Virgin Money later 
said it had taken the decision not to send out a new credit card following a review of Mr Ks 
account. Mr K complained about the decision as well as the direct debit that Virgin Money 
started to collect around March 2022. Virgin Money issued a final response on 17 November 
2022 and apologised that the decision not to renew his credit card hadnt been 
communicated to Mr K. 
In the final response, Virgin Money said the direct debit had been set up and authorised by 
Mr K when he originally applied for the credit card. Virgin Money advised the direct debit had 
been successfully claimed since March 2022 following the migration to its new system and 
said that if it hadnt missed payments wouldve been recorded on Mr Ks credit file. 
Virgin Moneys final response added that Mr Ks address had been updated in December 
2021 but said the town name hadnt been amended. Virgin Money confirmed the error had 
been fixed and Mr Ks address was now correct. Virgin Money offered Mr K £150 to 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
On 28 November 2022 Virgin Money sent Mr K a follow up final response providing more 
information about the direct debit payments it had collected. Virgin Money said despite 
setting up the direct debit in 2017 it had never been successfully collected. Virgin Money 
said Mr Ks statements showed the direct debit had been collected and returned to his bank 
each month but that hed made manual payments instead. Virgin Money added that it was 
unable to explain why the payment had previously been reversed each month but 
successfully collected after the systems migration and upheld Mr Ks complaint. Virgin 
Money increased its offer to £200 to resolve Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K referred his case to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
recommended that Virgin Money pay Mr K a further £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the service provided. Virgin Money agreed. Mr K asked to appeal and said Virgin 
Money hadnt adequately explained why payments hadnt been collected for several years 
but started around the time he lost access to his account online. Mr K also pointed out this 
issue coincided with the change of address which meant post wasnt received. As Mr K 
asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr K has questioned why his address was amended, online service removed and direct 
debits collected all around the same time. I can see Mr K is concerned theres a link between 
the issues hes raised. Ive considered whether the points Mr K has complained about are 
linked or not. 
Mr Ks address was amended in December 2021, several months before the migration to 
Virgin Moneys new system took place and payments started to be successfully collected by 
direct debit. I appreciate the timing may appear linked, but Im satisfied the address wasnt 
amended as part of the systems migration process. Virgin Moneys final response dated 17 
November 2022 explained the address wasnt correctly amended when it was updated. Im 
satisfied Virgin Moneys explained the issue came about due to a mistake and that the error 
was later fixed. Ive taken the mistakes made with Mr Ks address into account when 
deciding how to fairly resolve his complaint. 
Mr Ks also told us online access to his account was removed around the time the other 
issues hes raised occurred. But the move to a new online and mobile banking service was 
communicated to customers by Virgin Money in advance of the change. And I can see that 
in April 2022 Virgin Money sent Mr K a final response that confirmed he could download the 
app to manage his account. Virgin Money also confirmed Mr K could call its customer 
services team or use online forms via its website to access his account as well. I appreciate 
the move to a new app caused Mr K some inconvenience and that he had difficulties 
registering. But Im satisfied Virgin Money gave Mr K information about other options to 
manage his account which were reasonable alternatives. 
Virgin Money says Mr K authorised a direct debit instruction of £100 a month when he 
originally applied for the credit card in 2017. Its provided evidence that Mr K included a 
completed direct debit mandate along with his credit card application in 2017. And the credit 
card statement evidence Ive seen shows the direct debit as being collected then returned to 
Mr Ks bank within the same month. In its final response dated 28 November 2022 Virgin Money advised it was unable to explain 
why the direct debit hadnt been collected correctly. I appreciate Mr K wants a more 
comprehensive response and explanation of what went wrong. But Virgin Moneys already 
said it cant explain why the direct debit was collected then returned each month. I cant 
force a business to provide more details but Im satisfied I can fairly reach a decision on Mr 
Ks complaint based on the information we already have on file. 
Mr K made manual payments each month which meant that despite the direct debit not 
being collected no payments were missed. Virgin Moneys final response said that when the 
new system was introduced it started to collect the direct debit. And that meant despite not 
making the manual payments due to not receiving statements, Mr Ks account didnt fall 
behind. 
Whilst I agree it is unsatisfactory that Virgin Money hasnt been able to give a clearer 
explanation of what happened, Im satisfied a final response has been provided and its 
confirmed the issue was resolved when a new system was introduced. And I think its fair to 
say that the impact on Mr K since 2017 has been limited. Ive taken the way Mr Ks direct 
debits have been administered into account when considering how to fairly resolve his case. 
Virgin Money accepts it made mistakes with Mr Ks account. It didnt confirm the credit card 
had been withdrawn, failed to correctly amend Mr Ks address meaning statements werent 
received and made mistakes with the direct debit. I also understand Mr K found the call wait 
times and service provided by Virgin Money to be poor. Virgin Money offered Mr K £200 to 
resolve his complaint and our investigator recommended it increase the award by a further 
£50. 
Ive read and considered everything Mr K has told us about the issues hes experienced and 
how they have impacted him. Taking all the available information into account, Im satisfied 
that a further award of £50 (in addition to the compensation already offered) reflects the level 
of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K and is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his 
complaint. 
As Im satisfied Virgin Money has agreed to pay a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances Im not increasing the award further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay him a further £50 in addition to the compensation its already offered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman