DRN-4377842
The complaint
Ms B complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on her motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to esure, where appropriate, includes its agents.
What happened
Ms B holds a motor insurance policy with esure. After her car was damaged, she made a 
claim to esure.
She complains about how that claim was handled. Namely, shes unhappy with delays and 
poor communication. Shes also said her car was returned to her with further issues  a 
knocking from the steering and issues with the paintwork. Shes unhappy her excess wasnt 
returned to her and shes also unhappy her premium has increased following the claim.
Ms B said esure didnt respond to her complaint, so, she brought it to us.
We also didnt hear from esure, so, based on the information we had on file, our Investigator 
recommended esure deal with the issues with Ms Bs car  or pay her what it cost her to fix 
them. And she recommended esure pay Ms B £300 compensation. Our investigator 
explained esure wasnt responsible for giving Ms B her excess back, and she said she 
couldnt comment on the price of the policy.
esure didnt respond, so, the case has come to me to issue a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partly upholding it and require esure to take action to put things right for 
Ms B.
The excess is the first part of the claim Ms B has to pay, this is common in motor 
insurance policies. So, esure arent responsible for returning this to her. I can see its 
referred her to her motor legal protection cover, and this is what Id expect it to do in 
the circumstances.
Ive not seen any evidence from esure to show why its not covering the further 
issues to Ms Bs car. I understand Ms B has said the repairing garage doesnt think 
they are related to the incident or its repair. But because Ive seen no supporting 
evidence, Im persuaded esure should deal with these issues. So, esure should deal 
with the steering noise and the issues with the paintwork.
esure should compensate Ms B £300 for the service throughout this claim. Ive not 
had any information from it to explain what happened, so all I can base this on is 
what Ms B has told us. But based on that, I think the delays and lack of 
communication and courtesy car for periods warrants compensation of this amount.
Ive not seen the underwriting evidence to show the increase in Ms Bs policy is what 
it is. But any claim is likely to increase the cost of an insurance policy, regardless of 
who is determined to be at fault. Therefore, Im not asking esure to do anything 
differently in relation to the premium offered. Ms B has said shes received a quote 
for cheaper insurance elsewhere, but this doesnt mean esures premium is unfair. 
Ms B is free to move insurers as and when she pleases. Doing so should not 
influence what esure need to do in relation to this claim  because it was made while 
she was on cover with it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require 
esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay for the cost Ms B incurs in repairing the issues reported after her car returned 
form the repairers on receipt of a valid invoice or the work. 8% simple interest should 
be added on to this payment. Interest should be calculated from the date Ms B paid 
the invoice, to the date it pays Ms B. Or,
Arrange for the issues reported after Ms Bs car was returned from the repairer to be 
fixed by an alternative repairer.
Pay Ms B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused throughout 
this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman