DRN-1937310
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Society of Lloyd's has settled his claim on his commercial 
buildings insurance.
What happened
Mr C owned a building that contained a shop on the ground floor and a residential flat on the 
first floor. He had buildings insurance with Lloyds that covered the entire building.
In September 2018 there was an incident at the shop where thieves drove into the building 
and removed the cash point on the wall. This left significant damage to the wall and structure 
of the building. 
Mr C arranged emergency repairs to the wall, so his shop could continue trading. He then 
made a claim on his insurance.
Lloyds sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage in October 2018. However he raised 
concerns around the amount the property was insured for and recommended this was 
investigated further. 
Lloyds then instructed a buildings surveyor to assess how much the property would cost to 
rebuild. In February 2019 they produced a report concluding the rebuild cost was £910,000. 
Mr Cs insurance only covered him for a rebuild cost of £266,491. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr C to let him know that he was under-insured. It said that based on the 
figure from its building surveyor he was 71% under-insured. It said it would therefore settle 
the claim proportionally  covering only the 29% that was covered by the policy.
Mr C didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. He said he had made an insurance 
claim on the same policy in July 2018 after the shop had been struck by lightning. And he 
said the loss adjuster that had attended for that claim had confirmed that the property was 
insured for the correct amount. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr C had benefited form the error of the 
previous loss adjuster as his full claim had been paid out. But it was satisfied that the 
building was significantly under-insured based on its building surveyors report.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that he had originally had a combined policy that covered the 
buildings and contents of the whole building. But this had been split out by his broker into 
two policies and he thought the cover would be sufficient. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said as a business owner, 
she thought Mr C should have had a good idea of how much the property was worth as a 
business asset. And he should have realised the insurance he had didnt cover the total 
rebuild cost. So she thought Lloyds had acted fairly by offering to settle Mr Cs claim 
proportionately.
Since our investigator considered the case Mr C has instructed his own surveyor to assess 
the cost of rebuilding the property. They produced a report that concluded it would cost 
£707,834.47. Lloyds has also considered this report, and its own surveyor has reduced its 
cost of a rebuild to £875,000 and has agreed to settle based on this new amount. However it 
says Mr Cs report fails to take into account current building regulations and the fact that the 
building is listed, which would add to the cost of rebuilding it. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the adjusted settlement and asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has said it considers Mr C to have made a misrepresentation when he took out the 
insurance about the amount the property would cost to rebuild. When we consider 
complaints of this nature, the relevant law is the Insurance Act 2015. This requires the 
insured to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when they take out and renew a 
policy. Where the insured fails to do this, it provides various actions the insurer may take. 
These include avoiding the policy (cancelling it as if it never existed).
However in this case Lloyds hasnt applied these remedies. And has instead relied on the 
average clause in the policy, in order to settle the claim. So rather than considering whether 
a misrepresentation has been made under the Insurance Act, I have considered whether 
Lloyds has acted fairly by applying this clause. 
The average clause in the policy states as follows:
(1) Average
Where a Sum Insured is stated to be subject to average, this means that if at the time of 
Damage, the Sum Insured is less than the total value of the property, You will
(a) be responsible for the difference
(b) bear a proportionate share of the loss.
So I can see that where the sum insured is less than the actual value, Lloyds can provide a 
proportionate settlement under the policy.
To decide if Lloyds has applied this clause fairly, I have first considered whether it is 
reasonable for it to say that the amount insured was less than the true value. 
Both Mr C and Lloyds have provided reports that conclude that it would cost significantly 
more to rebuild the property than the amount Mr C is insured for. And, both these reports 
quote significantly more than Mr C declared  with the lowest of the two still being three 
times higher than the value given. So I think its fair to conclude that Mr C was significantly 
under-insured. 
I have also considered whether Lloyds made it clear what information they required about 
the value of the building when the policy was taken out and renewed. 
Mr C took the policy out through a broker and it hasnt been possible to retrieve the original 
sales call from them. However Lloyds has provided a copy of the statement of fact that was 
provided to Mr C by the broker at each renewal. On the statement of fact it states as follows:Asset Protection Property Damage All Risks Cover 
It is important to ensure that the value of the property insured represents the total cost to 
rebuild your property (this is not the market value). This should represent the total cost to 
rebuild your property including architects, surveyors, consulting engineers, debris removals 
and legal fees you would be required to pay.
I think this is enough detail for Mr C to have understood what was being asked for, and that it 
was more than just the market value of the building. 
Further the statement of fact states at the beginning of the document that the insured must 
advise if any of the details arent correct. It goes on to say: Failure to do so could invalidate 
the policy from inception or result in a claim being repudiated. It also says just above the 
question about the value of the property:
Please ensure that the sums insured provided by YOU are sufficient as the consequences 
of being underinsured can be significant.
So Im satisfied that it would have been clear to Mr C that it was important the figure 
provided was correct and that there would be consequences affecting any claims on the 
policy if it wasnt.  
Mr C says that during his claim in July 2018 he checked with the loss adjuster that the 
amount he was insured for was sufficient and they confirmed it was. So he had assumed the 
amount was correct based on this. 
While I appreciate it would have been frustrating to find out this wasnt correct, I dont think 
this has any impact on how Lloyds should settle this claim. Mr Cs policy renewed in 
December 2017 and this is when Mr C re-confirmed the buildings value. If he had any doubt 
about the figure provided, he should have checked it at this point, as directed by the 
statement of fact. So while it seems clear now that the loss adjuster that was involved in the 
previous claim did give incorrect information, I dont think that has any impact on 
considerations in this claim. 
So based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr C provided incorrect information 
that has led to him being under-insured. So I have gone on to consider whether Lloyds has 
offered a fair settlement. 
Lloyds originally said Mr C was 71% under-insured, so would only contribute the remaining 
29% towards the claim as this was the proportionate amount he was insured up to. I am 
satisfied that this is a fair approach and in line with how we would expect insurers to settle 
claims in these circumstances. 
However since then Mr C has provided his own report which values the rebuild of the 
property as less than the report from Lloyds surveyor. And Lloyds has altered its valuation 
from £910,000 to £875,000. However this is still higher than Mr Cs report  that valued it 
around £707,000, so Ive considered whether I think this is fair.
From looking at Mr Cs report, and the response to it from Lloyds surveyor, it seems there is 
some disagreement about the exact floor area of the building. Lloyds surveyor has provided 
detailed floor plans which were drawn up after their site visit. Whereas Mr Cs surveyor just 
states that these dimensions are likely to be too high. So Im more persuaded by Lloyds 
assessment of the dimensions as they are significantly more detailed. Further Lloyds surveyor has pointed out that there would be additional costs, in particular 
related to planning, due to the fact the building is listed. Whereas there is no mention of this 
in Mr Cs report.  
Lloyds has now reduced its assessment of the true rebuild cost to £875,000 based on some 
of the observations in Mr Cs report. And it has offered an additional settlement amount to 
match this. From what Ive seen Im satisfied that this is a fair assessment of the true value. 
And therefore Im satisfied that Lloyds has already offered a fair settlement for Mr Cs claim, 
so I wont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and wont require Society of 
Lloyd's to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman