DRN-2894318
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax was irresponsible in approving 
his application for a credit card. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card account with Halifax. His application was approved in                   
June 2019 with a credit limit of £3,200. But Mr M says that Halifax didnt do enough checks 
to ensure the credit limit was affordable for him. So, he complained to Halifax. 
Halifax looked into Mrs Ms complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that 
it correctly assessed Mr Ms credit card application by considering information from Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) available at the time and the information Mr M provided about 
his financial circumstances in his application. So, it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response Mr M referred his complaint to us. He said that if sufficient 
checks had been done then Halifax wouldve seen that he was taking payday loans, and this 
should have indicated he couldnt afford further borrowing. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt think Halifax had done 
anything wrong. She thought Halifax had carried out enough checks when it approved              
Mr Ms application. 
Mr M didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be reviewed again. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the credit card was approved. Having done so, Ive come to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator. I know Mr M will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Halifax is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the 
credit facility it was giving to Mr M was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Mr M, how much he had to repay 
(including interest and charges) each month, his borrowing history with it and what it knew 
about him. But there is no set list of checks it had to do. 
Halifax says it asked about Mr Ms employment, monthly income and monthly expenditure 
before agreeing to lend to him. And I can see from Mr Ms application that he told Halifax he 
was employed on an annual income of £40,000 and that he declared his only regular 
monthly credit commitment to be his mortgage at £1,100 per month. 
I can see that Mr M has suggested that Halifax didnt do a credit search. And that he thinks 
that, had it done so, this would have shown he had more commitments than he had declared 
and that he been borrowing money via payday lenders. But Halifax has said that it used 
information from the CRAs and its own internal scoring system.
So, Ive looked at the copy of Mr Ms credit file which he has provided to us. And, like the 
investigator, I havent found anything that I think should have prompted Halifax to think Mr M 
was in financial difficulty or that further checks were needed at that time to verify what Mr M 
had told it. 
While the credit file shows that Mr M had borrowed from other lenders, there is no adverse 
information recorded - such as missed payments or defaults. Rather, the information 
indicates Mr Ms borrowing had been repaid on time and in line with the type of credit 
agreement he had taken out. And while there is a record of some payday lending this was 
sometime before Mr M applied for this credit card and the credit file indicates the loans had 
all been settled on time. And, in any event, borrowing from payday lenders isnt a reason for 
a lender to automatically decline new borrowing as - in itself, using a payday lender doesnt 
necessarily mean a consumer is in financial difficulty. 
I appreciate that Mr M may have gone onto borrow from other lenders after taking the credit 
card with Halifax, but this kind of information wouldnt have been available to Halifax when it 
assessed this application. 
Overall, I havent found that Halifax lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ms credit card 
application. I think the checks it did were proportionate at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against     
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman