DRN-2635143
The complaint
Mr A, Mrs H, Mr I and Miss P have complained because Union Reiseversicherung AG 
(URV) hasnt paid a claim under their travel insurance policy.
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
What happened
Mr A, Mrs H, Mr I and Miss P were insured under a travel insurance policy, provided by
URV. Two children were also insured under the policy.
Due to a fire evacuation at the airport, Mr A, Mrs H, Mr I, Miss P and the children missed
their early morning outbound flight from the UK. They booked a new flight to their 
destination, departing from a different UK airport that evening. The new flight was
subsequently delayed by a few hours.
Mrs H, on behalf of herself and the other travellers, made a claim with URV for the following
costs:
the new flights;
train tickets between UK airports;
food.
Mrs H also claimed for the cost of an excursion abroad, which didnt go as planned.
URV paid Mrs H £120 for delayed departure benefit in respect of all those insured under the
policy but said the costs she was claiming for werent covered because the circumstances of
the claim didnt meet the criteria for payment.
Unhappy, Mrs H complained to URV before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said there was no exclusion in the 
policy relating to the evacuation of an airport, so it was fair and reasonable for Mrs H to read
the policy document and interpret it as if her situation would be covered. He thought the
evacuation was unforeseen and said Mrs H and the other travellers had arrived at the airport
and checked in on time. He therefore said URV should reconsider the claim if Mrs H was
unable to recover the money she was claiming for from elsewhere.
URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I made my provisional decision about the complaint in January 2021. In it, I said:
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and the level of risk which an insurer agrees
to accept in return for the payment of a premium isnt unlimited. Its not possible  or
reasonable  to expect an insurer to list every specific scenario that isnt covered. So,
instead, the terms and conditions set out a list of insured events which are covered under
the policy.
Ive read Mrs Hs policy documentation in its entirety and the section which is relevant to the
claim is entitled If your travel plans are disrupted (Policy B Section 1).
Policy B Section 1 says the policy will pay up to £800 for alternative transport to get you to
your trip destination. This benefit is payable if one of the following events happen:
the vehicle in which you are travelling to your international departure point becomes
un-driveable due to mechanical failure or being involved in an accident or your public
transport is delayed, preventing you from being able to check-in on time for your
outward departure from the United Kingdom, Channel Islands or BFPO.
Mrs H and the other travellers didnt miss their flight due to any of these situations, so the
claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Theres no doubt that the policyholders allowed themselves sufficient time to check-in and I 
understand Mrs H has unsuccessfully tried to claim the additional costs back from the airline
and from the airport, but there arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask
URV to accept this claim. I think the policy terms clearly state which situations are covered
and, to the best of my knowledge, theres no travel insurance policy on the market that would
provide cover for the circumstances Mrs H and the other travellers found themselves in.
Im pleased to see URV has paid the delayed departure benefit under the policy, as Mrs H
and the other travellers eventual departure was delayed by more than 12 hours.
The cost of the excursion abroad which didnt go as planned isnt something which is
covered  or which I would expect to be covered - under this travel insurance policy. This is
something Mrs H would need to raise with the provider of the excursion directly.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, Mrs H, Mr I and Miss P but I dont intend to recommend that
URV should do anything further.
Mrs H and the other policyholders didnt accept my provisional decision. URV didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything Mrs H has said. I understand she feels the flight should 
have been delayed given what happened at the airport, and I understand she missed the 
flight through no fault of her own. But this simply isnt a situation which her insurance policy 
covers her for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr A, Mrs H, Mr I and Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mrs H, Mr I 
and Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman