DRN-2875868
The complaint
Ms S complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
In January 2019, Ms S applied for a loan of £5,000 over 36 months, for debt consolidation, 
payable over 36 months. The interest rate was 58.4% APR and total repayable was 
£9,219. Monthly repayments were £256.11. It was approved. Ms S fell behind with 
payments. In March 2021 with arrears at £5,508, the debt was sold to a debt collection 
agency.
Ms S complained that she shouldnt have been given the loan. She had other debts and 
was behind with repayments on some of them. Cheques and direct debits had been 
returned. As a result, she was suffering badly from depression and stress. She had to take 
time off work. She also says she was mis sold the loan as she thought it could be repaid 
and replaced by a lower cost one from another lender when she got herself straight  but it 
couldnt. She said he was being harassed by Everyday for payments.
Everyday said shed passed all their credit tests. These included a review of bank 
statements, payslips, a credit search and a job check. She had a salary of £1519 per 
month against living expenses and financial commitments of £1277. They worked out that 
after consolidating her debts, she would have £87 per month left over  after paying 
Everyday loan. They said they might call her up to three times a day  but their intention 
was to stop the loan being passed to a debt collection agency and that affecting her credit 
file.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Everyday hadnt acted responsibly 
in lending Ms M the money. She had debts of £9,756 with other lenders at the time of her 
application. He worked out that by only paying off £5,000 of her debts, she was actually 
worse off than before  because of the monthly repayments to Everyday of £256. So  her 
situation wasnt improved, rather it was made worse. On Ms S stress and illness, he 
couldnt conclude that Everyday were solely responsible for that  as hed seen medical 
reports that said she had long term illness issues. But what happened with Everyday 
wouldnt have helped things. He said that all interest and charges on the loan should be 
refunded, and an affordable repayment plan agreed for the remaining debt. And, Everyday 
should pay £250 for distress and inconvenience. Any negative information added to Ms S 
credit file should be removed.
Everyday agreed with these recommendations, but Ms S didnt  wanted more
to be done. So, she asked an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I agreed with our investigator  but I wanted to be 
clear about how to put things right for Ms S. I said:
I agree with our investigator that the loan shouldnt have been provided on the terms it was 
 so I wont go into a lot more detail. But I noted that Ms S had debts of £9,756 at the time, 
and Everyday recorded there were bounced cheques and direct debits on her bank account. 
And the loan was said to be for debt consolidation. After Ms S had paid off some of her 
debts  Everyday worked out that she had disposable income left over each month of about
£87  which wasnt very much. And  because she borrowed only £5,000, she wasnt 
going to be able to pay off all her other debts. Also, because the Everyday loan was over a 
fairly short period (36 months) and at a high rate of interest (58.4% APR), her payments 
were high (£256 per month). So  her position wasnt improved, and our investigator 
worked out she was worse off each month  which I agree with. I couldnt see that 
Everyday ensured that any of the debts were in fact paid off, and Ms S told us that only 
about £3,500 was paid off one credit card  which was then redrawn by £1,000. So  she 
ended up in a worse position than before.
Ms S said she was mis sold the loan  she thought it was a short term, flexible loan that 
she could repay early and then take a lower cost loan from another lender  but it was a 
fixed term loan over 36 months. Ive considered this. In Everydays notes at the time of the 
loan, the manager recorded that Ms S was very happy with the service providedfully 
aware of the terms, repayments and cancellation.TCF completed very happy with 
service. So, on that basis, I cant say that the loan was misrepresented to Ms S.
None of this was helped by the fact that Ms S had to take time off work through stress and 
anxiety. She said this was caused by the worry about the Everyday loan  but I agree with 
our investigator that heres not enough evidence to say they were solely responsible as 
she did have long-term problems.
Turning to how to put things right here. I agree with our investigators recommendations  
these are very much in line with what this service would expect to see for what happened.
He said that interest and fees should be refunded to the loan and a payment programme 
agreed for repayment of the remaining debt. I can see that the debt has been sold to a 
debt collection agency. Im not clear if the loan is still attracting interest. So, I want to be 
clear here about the way forward  Ms S is in financial difficulty, and so it wouldnt be fair 
for Everyday to put the remaining debt onto another high cost, short term loan. That 
wouldnt help Ms S. So, Everyday should agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan with 
Ms S at a zero, or low rate of interest  having regard for their obligations under the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance which says - businesses have an obligation to 
treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically  they should treat customers in 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a business might 
suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments or defer them, and allow customers 
more time to repay their debt. Whether that entails Everyday leaving the debt with the debt 
collection agency or taking it back onto their books  they should advise when responding 
to this provisional decision.
And  as the loan shouldnt have been given, Everyday should remove the adverse default
information from Ms S credit file.
I agree that a payment of £250 for distress and inconvenience is also appropriate and what 
this service would expect to see.
Ms S wanted more to be done  but I dont think I can ask Everyday to do any more than we 
have  but I wanted to ensure that going forward, the repayment of her debt is put
on the right footing and in as practical and as helpful a way as possible.
Both Ms S and Everyday accepted my findings. Everyday didnt comment on my request  
about how to manage the remaining debt.So  I now need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Everyday didnt comment on my request  about how to manage the remaining debt. So, I 
will have to make that choice myself. I would like Everyday to transfer the loan back onto 
their books from the debt collection agency. Apart from that aspect, I wont be departing from 
my provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it.
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited must:
Refund all interest and fees debited to the loan.
Transfer the remaining debt back onto its books from the debt collection agency.
Agree a low or zero interest rate on the remaining loan, to be agreed with Ms S.
Pay compensation of £250 to Ms S for distress and inconvenience. This should be 
paid to her nominated bank account.
Remove any negative information from Ms S credit file which resulted from the loan in 
question.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman