DRN-2381441
The complaint
Mr N complains that AmTrust Europe Limited mishandled his claim on a caravan insurance 
policy.
What happened
A manufacturer made a caravan in 2016 and Mr N bought it in October 2018. On about 25 
October 2018, Mr N took out a caravan insurance policy under which AmTrust was 
responsible for dealing with claims.
In the summer of 2019, the caravan manufacturer went into a formal insolvency.
On 11 October 2019 - as Mr N towed it uphill - an oncoming car side-swiped his caravan. 
The car drove on before Mr N could get its registration plate. His caravan suffered damage.
On about 25 October 2019 Mr N renewed his policy.
AmTrust instructed an expert who said the value of the caravan had been £15,000.00. He 
said that a repair would require certain parts which were no longer available. He estimated 
the cost of repair at £8,580.00.
AmTrust referred to a policy term that said that - in the case of unavailability of parts - it 
would pay the last known list price of the parts plus what it would have cost to install them. It 
offered £8,580.00.
 
Mr N complained to AmTrust that the damage was such that he could no longer use the 
caravan. He said AmTrust should pay the pre-accident value of his caravan.
 
AmTrust declined and sent a final response letter dated 6 December 2019. Unhappy with 
that, Mr N brought his complaint to us on 9 December 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
term AmTrust was relying on wasnt fair and reasonable given the circumstances. He 
recommended that AmTrust should re-examine Mr Ns claim without relying on the exclusion 
term, and if the claim meets all the other terms, to make an offer that reflects that Mr N no 
longer has use of his caravan.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr N 
and to AmTrust on 5 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find that AmTrust fairly applied the limitation term. I concluded that AmTrust 
shouldve paid the retail value of the caravan at the time of the damage. The experts 
valuation was £15,000.00 and Mr N hadnt challenged that, so I found that was the 
retail value immediately before the damage.
If AmTrust had paid that value less the £100.00 excess, it wouldve become entitled 
to the damaged caravan. As AmTrust didnt pay that value, Mr N couldve disposed 
of the caravan. So I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct AmTrust to 
pay for storage charges.
AmTrusts offer of £8,580.00 was in late 2019. I understood his reluctance to accept 
it in settlement of his claim. But I found it likely that AmTrust wouldve been willing to 
pay that amount on account while we dealt with the complaint. Mr Ns email to us 
on 23 September 2020 indicated that  when Mr N asked  AmTrust was willing to 
make payment on that basis.
Neither Mr N nor AmTrust had confirmed that a payment was made and, if so, 
whether it was of £8,580.00 or  after deduction of the £100.00 excess - £8,480.00.
Subject to any further information from Mr N or from AmTrust, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct AmTrust Europe Limited, 
provided that Mr N makes his caravan available for collection with all relevant documents, 
keys and codes, to pay Mr N:
1. insofar as it hasnt already paid him, £14,900.00 for his damaged caravan; and
 
2. simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on the balance of £6,320.00 from 6 December 
2019 to the date of payment. If AmTrust considers that HM Revenue and Customs 
requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr N how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. He says, in summary, that:
We told him earlier this year not to dispose of the caravan from storage, as it might 
be the insurance companys property, if the case went for him.
 
He is still paying £30 per month for storage. He wanted to get rid of this expense.
The insurance company should at least pay for the storage since the accident (£390).
He would like some compensation for using hotels/static caravan for holidays instead 
of a Touring Caravan. 
For the hassle he has gone through this last year, compensation is justified because 
of their unreasonableness & unfairness in this matter and for dragging it out so long.
He was offered but did not take any money from the insurance company.
If the insurance company wanted to, (instead of paying any storage fees & 
compensation) they could leave the caravan with him.
He asks whether my decision on the policy clause will prevent insures using a similar 
clause in future.His caravan was insured for £16,000.
£15,000 is not a fair market value for a caravan like his, with motor mover. He has 
sent us some sales details as at 9 November 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service must take into account the general law and the policy 
terms. But it will consider whether it was fair for an insurer to rely on a policy term in each 
case.
 
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with each case individually. I cannot say how 
future cases may be decided.
In Mr Ns case, the policy schedule recorded that the value of the caravan (in October 2018) 
was £16,000.00. The policy wasnt an agreed value policy. So the caravan wasnt insured 
for £16,000.000  it was insured up to its market value at the date of the accident (which 
happened in October 2019).
The value in October 2019 is not evidenced by Mr Ns review of similar caravans on the 
market a year later in November 2020. In any event, asking prices are often higher than 
actual selling prices. So I place more weight on the prices set out in the trade guides.
The policy excluded the first £100.00 of each claim.
The policy had a term as follows:
Settling Claims
1. The caravan
We will either pay the cost of repairing the caravan or, if the caravan is lost or 
damaged beyond economical repair, we may settle the claim as follows: 
a New For Old Cover
If you suffer a total loss and the caravan is within five years of 
age from the date of manufacture we may replace the caravan 
with a new caravan of the same make and model. Your sums 
insured (as shown in the schedule), must cover the cost of a new 
caravan of the same make and model. You must be able to 
provide the original purchase receipt.
b Caravans Over Five Years Old
We will pay the retail value of the caravan at the time of the loss 
or damage (if shown in the current edition of Glasss Guide to 
Caravan Values or agreed by us)
That term is about settling claims. One alternative settlement is to pay the cost of repair. The 
other alternative is that the caravan is lost or damaged beyond economic repair.
 
That term about settling claims doesnt contain any cross-reference to suggest that the cost 
of repair is subject to any other term in the event of unavailability of parts.The policy doesnt contain any definition of damaged beyond economical repair. And the 
term about settling claims doesnt contain any cross-reference to suggest that the 
unavailability of parts doesnt make a caravan beyond economical repair. In the absence of a 
policy definition, my view is that a caravan that cannot be repaired without parts that are 
unavailable is a caravan that is beyond economical repair.
The term about settling claims doesnt say how AmTrust will settle a claim for a caravan that 
was bought second-hand and insured for its second-hand value and damaged beyond 
economic repair before its five years old. I consider that it would be fair to imply that the 
insurer wold settle such a claim in the same way as if the caravan were five years old  that 
is to pay its retail value at the time of the damage.
The term on which AmTrust has relied is as follows:
10. Where a claim for loss or damage results in the caravan or contents needing 
new parts and these are found to be obsolete or unobtainable, the claim will be 
limited to the last known list price of the part, together with the appropriate fitting 
charge.
I would characterise that term as a limitation clause. AmTrusts policy has it under the 
heading of General Exclusions.
I accept AmTrusts statement that such a term is common in caravan insurance policies. But 
its a significant limitation. So Ive thought about whether it is clear enough in the policy 
document. On balance I consider that the lack of cross-referencing means that the limitation 
isnt clear enough in the policy document.
Even if it were clear enough, I dont consider that it would always be fair for AmTrust to rely 
on that term. For example, it wouldnt be fair to pay only the last known list price of a vital 
part that was cheap at that time but is no longer available so that the caravan can neither be 
repaired nor used.
Mr Ns caravan suffered damage to the right-hand side. 
Ive seen that a well-qualified expert engineer carried out a desk-top review for a fee of about 
£62.00 plus VAT. He identified that repair would require the following parts:
NEARSIDE AND OFFSIDE AWNING RAILS
FRONT PANEL 
FRONT PANEL DECALS
OFFSIDE REAR AWNING RAIL
OFFSIDE SIDE PANEL
HEATER FLU
WATER INLET
BATTERY BOX DOOR AND FRAME
SKIRT MOULDING SET
WHEEL ARCH
OFFSIDE DECALS
So I find that the damage included damage to the water intake and gas heater flue, which 
would hinder or prevent filling the caravans water tank and the use of its heating. So the 
damage made the caravan unusable for its intended purpose of touring holidays.
The expert engineer said the following:we have calculated repair costs based on previous repairs that were carried out and 
would suggest total cost of the repairs to replace the front panel and side panel 
together with associated parts would be £7150 plus VAT approx.
His report breaks that figure down as follows:
Bonding   £300.00
Sealing    £200.00 
Engineers agreed labour charge      £2,310.00
Parts                    £4,190.00
Carriage              £150.00
Theres no further breakdown of the figures of £4,190.00 for parts or £2,310.00 for labour. 
The total of £7,150.00 plus VAT is an experts approximation. Its based on previous 
repairs of unknown date, perhaps years before the caravan manufacturer last published a 
price list.  
Theres no evidence that the expert had access to any price list published by the 
manufacturer. So theres no evidence that the expert could state the last known list price of, 
for example, the offside awning rail or the heater flue or the water inlet for Mr Ns caravan.
So Im not satisfied that AmTrusts offer of £7,150.00 plus VAT (a total of £8,580.00) was 
compliant with its policy term limiting the claim to the last known list price plus appropriate 
fitting charge.
In any event, AmTrusts offer is based on the unavailability of parts. And I consider that such 
unavailability meant that Mr Ns caravan was beyond economical repair and indeed beyond 
any repair. Over a year after the damage, neither Mr N nor AmTrust has said parts are 
available.
Overall I dont find that AmTrust fairly applied the limitation term. 
I conclude that AmTrust shouldve paid the retail value of the caravan at the time of the 
damage. The experts report included the following:
Current Guide Value: £15,000.00 (Taken from Glasss Guide).
So I accept that the expert had consulted Glasss Guide to Caravan Values.
On 4 November 2019, Mr N sent an email including the following:
I insured the Caravan for £16000 which I paid for it this time last year,
and although that value would have reduced over that one year, I was hoping for 
somewhere near that value.
Weighing up the experts valuation with what Mr N said, I find that the retail value 
immediately before the damage was £15,000.00.
If AmTrust had paid that value less the £100.00 excess, it wouldve become entitled to the 
damaged caravan. As AmTrust didnt pay that value, Mr N couldve disposed of the caravan. 
I acknowledge that on 6 October this year, in answer to a question from Mr N, the 
investigator said as follows: 
You cannot sell the Caravan for parts right now, as you are right in saying if the case 
settles, the Caravan could potentially be the property of the insurers.I dont think the investigator shouldve said that. But  as it was already October 2020 - I 
dont think it made much difference to the storage fees.
The fact remains that Mr N couldve disposed of the caravan rather than incurring storage 
charges. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AmTrust to pay for storage charges.
AmTrusts offer of £8,580.00 was in late 2019. I understand his reluctance to accept it in 
settlement of his claim. But I find it likely that AmTrust wouldve been willing to pay that 
amount on account while we dealt with the complaint. Mr Ns email to us on 23 September 
2020 indicates that  when Mr N asked  AmTrust was willing to make payment on that 
basis.
Neither Mr N nor AmTrust has confirmed whether the offer was of £8,580.00 or  after 
deduction of the £100.00 excess - £8,480.00. I find it likely that it wouldve been the latter. 
But Mr N says no payment was made.
In a case where the caravan was unusable and a total loss, I would find it fair to award 
compensation by reference to the pre-accident value of the caravan, with interest at our 
usual rate. I wouldnt find it fair to direct additional compensation for loss of use of the 
caravan or for the cost of alternative holidays. In any event Mr N hasnt provided enough 
detail of his holidays to enable me to assess such compensation.
I accept that  by a decision Ive found unfair  AmTrust caused Mr N some extra distress 
and inconvenience at an already difficult time. Ive thought about awarding compensation for 
this in addition. But I consider that most of the distress and inconvenience was to do with 
keeping Mr N out of money he shouldve had. And I consider that interest is a fair remedy for 
that.
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct AmTrust provided that Mr N makes his caravan 
available for collection with all relevant documents, keys and codes within 14 days of his 
acceptance of this decision - to pay Mr N £14,900.00 insofar as it hasnt already paid him 
that amount. 
If that happens then the caravan will be the property of the insurer. Mr N and AmTrust may 
be able to negotiate a lower payment after deduction of a salvage value on the basis that 
he retains the caravan. That is a matter for them to discuss before any further complaint is 
brought to us.
 
As AmTrust was only willing to pay £8,580.00, I find it fair and reasonable to direct AmTrust 
to pay interest at our usual rate from the date of its final response to the date of payment  
but only on the balance between £14,900.00 and £8,580.00  that is £6,320.00.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
AmTrust Europe Limited, provided that Mr N makes his caravan available for collection with 
all relevant documents, keys and codes within 14 days of his acceptance of this decision, to 
pay Mr N:
1. insofar as it hasnt already paid him, £14,900.00 for his damaged caravan; and
2. simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on the balance of £6,320.00 from 6 December 2019 to the date of payment. If AmTrust considers that HM Revenue 
and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr N 
how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman