DRN-4514459
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited
(Admiral) under his home insurance policy following a water leak at his home. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Admiral includes its agents and contractors in this 
decision letter and Mr G includes his claim handler acting on his behalf.
What happened
Mr Gs property unfortunately suffered damage including a collapsed ceiling, following a leak
due, as a water pipe in the loft had burst at the end of December 2022. The loss was
discovered after Mr G had been away for a few days and the water was then isolated. Mr G
reported the matter to Admiral in early January 2023, being his insurer at the relevant time.
Mr G was unhappy about the lack of Admirals progress and updates throughout his claim,
despite his claim handler chasing Admiral. Mr G said that he hadnt received payment for
alternative accommodation or for the repairs carried out. Mr G complained to Admiral that
this had caused emotional and financial strain. However, Admiral didnt alter its stance and
Mr G referred his complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint and considered that Admiral should pay
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. She made the point that
she could only review matters up to the date of complaint to the service and that any issues
from July 2023 onwards would need to be referred by Mr G to Admiral in the first instance.
The investigator said she couldnt tell Admiral to settle the costs of accommodation by a
certain date and noted that the repair costs were in dispute. However, she did consider that
Admiral had failed to address a request for an interim alternative accommodation payment
for several months. She considered that the delays started in around May 2023, and that
Admiral hadnt produced a scope of works until the end of June 2023. However, she
considered that prior to this, the claim had been progressed in a reasonable way.
Mr G was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. In the circumstances, his complaint 
was referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In November 2023, I 
issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint as follows; -
The insurance claim has been accepted by Admiral in principle. The issue for me to
determine here is therefore whether Admiral has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in its
handling of Mr Gs claim up until the date of complaint to this service in July 2023. I dont
consider that it has acted fairly and reasonably in all respects, and I partly uphold Mr Gs
complaint and provisionally award compensation of £500. Ill explain my reasoning for this
decision. In reaching this provisional decision Ive also considered the parties submissions
as summarised below.
I turn firstly to Mr Gs submissions. He said that hed submitted the relevant estimate for
reinstatement of his property as well as invoices regarding the alternative accommodation he
had to source. He said he hadnt received any form of response so far, despite repeated
emails and phone calls to Admiral by his claim handler. He said he was yet to see
meaningful progress or resolution, and this had caused him significant inconvenience. Mr G
said hed been affected financially and emotionally. He wanted Admiral to pay the full
amount of the estimate, as well as the full cost of his alternative accommodation.
Mr Gs claim handler said theyd enquired about the completion timeline. As they didnt
receive a response, Mr G had proceeded with the repairs. They felt that settlement should
therefore be based on the estimate Mr G had obtained. They also felt that Admiral couldnt
choose not to settle and ignore the matter indefinitely. Finally, Mr Gs claim handler clarified
that theyd only asked Admiral for an estimated date and time when they could potentially
carry out the work. They said, This inquiry is standard practice in claims management, as
insurers often deem our estimates to be high, propose a cash settlement, but then fail to
proceed with the repairs when challenged. They said theyd since received notification from
Admiral that its contractor was unable to undertake the reinstatement work in any event.
I now turn to Admirals submissions. It noted that Mr G had already moved into temporary
alternative accommodation by early January 2023 and Mr G hadnt sought or received
approval for this. Admiral noted that Mr G and his wife had rented a 4-bedroom house at the
cost of £300 per night. Admiral considered that these costs appeared excessive. Its loss
adjuster visited the insured property at the end of January 2023 and his view was that long-
term accommodation wasnt warranted. However, it was necessary until the leak was fixed
and the water supply reinstated. Admiral said that the water supply was duly reinstated at
the end of January 2023. It would therefore only consider accommodation costs from end of
December 2022 to end of January 2023, as the property would have been deemed
uninhabitable under the policy during this period only. After this date, it thought that Mr G
could have returned to his home as he wasnt without washing or cooking facilities.
Admiral has provided helpful case notes regarding the matter. These make it clear that
Admiral was aware at the outset that the family was vulnerable. The notes record While they
are doing their best to cope, they need the assurance that their claim will be processed
quickly. By mid-February 2023, the leak hadnt been rectified, the electrics still required
inspection and a dehumidifier was needed. The notes also showed that at that point, there
was no water at the property and ceiling debris needed clearing.
The notes also indicate that in mid-February 2023, Admiral informed Mr Gs claim handler
that it would require a plumbers report to confirm the cause of damage to confirm liability
and to progress the claim. In mid-March, Admiral confirmed the property was dry and asked
the claim handler with regards to the reinstatement works are you looking for our contractors
to complete the works or a cash settlement? It later confirmed that its contractors would 
have a long lead-in time. Gs claim handler confirmed that Mr G wanted to use his own
contractor. They also asked for an alternative accommodation interim payment due to the
extreme vulnerability. This will enable them to meet their immediate financial obligations and
alleviate some of the stress they are currently experiencing. The notes also show that there
had been attempts by Admiral to contact the claims handler by phone. At the end of March
2023, Admiral asked for alternative accommodation invoices. It appears that an estimate and
alternative accommodation invoice was then sent by the claim handler by mid-April 2023 and
a complaint followed shortly after this.
The claim handler made numerous requests for updates between the end of April and mid-
May 2023. By May 2023, Admiral was reviewing the estimate and considered that some of
the estimated costs werent claim-related or required, that there was a lack of photographs, a
breakdown, and professional report as to the works. In the circumstances, it considered it
needed to produce its own scope of works and this was communicated to Mr G. Once it
produced its scope, it considered the estimate to be high and said it would produce its own
quote. Towards the end of May 2023, the claim handler argued that the property was stilluninhabitable due to an ongoing issue with the electrical system. They said every time Mr G
attempted to turn on the electricity, it caused the circuit to trip, rendering the property unsafe
and unfit for habitation. As for the 4-bedroom apartment, they said this was a comparable
type of property to the insured property. They said that adequate space was also required to
accommodate Mr Gs grandchildren from time to time.
Finally, Admiral responded in early June 2023 to say that the scope of works was in the
process of being put together. Also, a commitment was provided by Admiral a few days later
that the alternative accommodation would be calculated on an Independent liability basis,
and a further holding response was sent by Admiral at the end of June 2023.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence, submissions and case notes here. The starting
point is the wording of the policy itself as this forms the basis of the contractual agreement
between the policyholder and insurer. Its clear from the policy booklet that damage caused
by an escape of water is covered in principle by the policy. This is subject to the usual policy
exclusions. The wording also makes it clear that its in the insurers discretion as to how it
will settle the claim in terms of whether to repair or to make a cash settlement.
Turning to the question of alternative accommodation, the policy states that, If your home is
not fit to be lived in due to loss or damage resulting from a buildings insured risk, we will pay
the following - The reasonable cost of temporary accommodation for you, your family and
your pets, while your home is being repairedIt also states that what is not covered is Any
costs you agree without our permission [and] Any costs that arise once your home is fit to be
lived in again. A further note states, Important. By reasonable cost we mean that the
amount we pay for temporary accommodation will take account of all of the circumstances of
the claim, including your needs, the length of time the temporary accommodation is needed
for, and the cost of other suitable accommodation available locally.
The first point to consider is the delay and manner of settling the claim by Admiral. Its noted
that a cash settlement was offered by Admiral to Mr G shortly after his complaint to this
service. Its not clear whether this offer has since been accepted. Unfortunately, I can only
consider matters which arose before the date of this particular complaint. Having considered
the case-notes, Im not satisfied that Admiral acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in
considering the level of cash settlement. It had consulted with Mr G in mid-March 2023 as to
his preference as to how work would proceed, and an estimate was then received from Mr G
in April. The estimate that was considered to be inadequate and led to a review by Admiral
and a decision in May 2023 that it would need to produce its own scope of work and 
costings. A scope of works for a project of this nature would need to be detailed and
thorough.
In all the circumstances, and on a provisional basis. I cant say that the time taken in
sourcing a scope of works and obtaining Admirals own costings was unfair or unreasonable.
The second point to consider is in relation to the cost of alternative accommodation. I note
that Admiral stated that it hadnt authorised the alternative accommodation sourced by Mr G.
In addition, it considered that such accommodation wouldnt have been required once the
leak had been fixed and a water supply had been restored to the insured property. Whilst Mr
G didnt comply with the terms of the policy by seeking agreement from Admiral, as the
incident occurred over the new year 2022/2023, its understandable that seeking prior
consent from Admiral may not have been straightforward. There is also no evidence that
Admiral provided assistance or advice to Mr G over the following weeks about sourcing
accommodation which it may have considered to be more reasonable and affordable.
Nevertheless, I consider that it was reasonable for Admiral to request sight of an invoice in
relation to alternative accommodation before making any payments, and I note that an
invoice wasnt received until mid-April 2023. Following this, I note that the claim handlerrepeatedly requested interim payments and that Admiral hadnt provided a definitive
response and was reviewing the position. Due to the wording of the policy in relation to
alternative accommodation, I cant say that it was wholly unreasonable for Admiral to wish to
carefully review the invoice and it appears that the costs were extremely high. I also cant
say it was unreasonable for it to review the period which it would be prepared to cover,
particularly in the light of Mr Gs persuasive argument that the property remained
uninhabitable whilst electrical issues presented a safety risk.
In all the circumstances, I would have expected Admiral to have reached a definitive position
in relation to the costs of alternative accommodation much sooner. Unfortunately, I can only
consider the question of whether this process should have occurred between mid-April and
early July 2023. Whilst I appreciate that there had been on-going discussion and review, I
consider that Admiral had been responsible for avoidable delays  this process over a
period of some weeks. Indeed, if Admiral concludes that an alternative accommodation
payment was due, then I consider that it should have made an interim payment during that
period. The delay in communicating its position will no doubt have caused Mr G considerable
uncertainty and on-going worry.
On a provisional basis, I therefore consider that moderate compensation for this process
delay would be appropriate, particularly in view of the known vulnerabilities in this case. On a
provisional basis, I consider that Admiral should pay Mr G £500 in compensation. This
reflects the services guidance in relation to distress and inconvenience caused over a
period of weeks by avoidable service delays.
Finally, I would clarify that this provisional decision relates only to the period of complaint up
to July 2023. Any on-going dispute regarding the level of settlement would be a matter for
separate complaint to Admiral in the first instance.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Admiral and Mr G if they had any further comments 
or evidence that they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G accepted the provisional decision and didnt provide any further submissions or 
evidence and Admiral didnt respond to this service in relation to the provisional decision. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision to partly uphold Mr Gs 
complaint provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and to require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman