The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Phoenix Life Limited will not allow her to transfer the death benefits 
from her late husbands pensions to her flexi access drawdown plan.
What happened
Mrs Bs husband sadly passed away in February 2019. Mrs Bs IFA who is representing her 
in this case (I'll just refer to Mrs B onwards for ease of reference), requested that the death 
benefits from Mr Bs pensions with Phoenix be transferred to Mrs Bs flexi access drawdown 
plan.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs B with a breakdown of the values payable. It explained that there 
were three separate plans. It said that it didnt offer the facility to transfer death benefits on 
two of the plans and it was paid at its discretion.  It said the death benefits would be paid as 
a tax-free lump sum to Ms B, in line with its scheme rules.
Phoenix said that on the third policy, which was a Retirement Annuity Contract, it didnt have 
any discretion over how the death benefits were to be paid.  Due to the particular legislation 
of this product the death benefits had to be paid to the late Mr Bs estate.
Mrs B complained as she stated that HMRC legislation now allowed for what is called the 
permissive statutory override available. This meant that Phoenix Life could chose to override 
its scheme rules and transfer the death benefits to a surviving spouses pension scheme. 
The benefit of this to Mrs B would be to keep the funds in a tax-free environment and allow 
flexible access to the funds whilst having the potential for future growth.
Phoenix Life rejected the complaint. It explained that the Government in their Pension 
Freedoms consultation had considered making the statutory override mandatory. However 
following feedback from the industry they consequently only provided the permissive 
override to assist those schemes that wished to offer flexible payments.
Phoenix Life confirmed that it made a commercial decision not to offer all the flexible 
payment types that were introduced under Pensions Freedoms under all schemes and 
products. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but she didnt recommend it be upheld. She said 
that Phoenix Life had not made an error in its explanation of how the death benefits should 
be paid. She explained the permissive statutory override was not mandatory and only 
providers who wished to offer flexible access plans needed to apply this. She said that 
Phoenix Life did not offer flexible access plans when Mr B took out the annuities so it 
wouldnt be right to say that it had to offer it on death benefits.
Mrs B responded to say that she wished for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. 
And asked that it be considered whether Phoenix Life are adhering to the Financial Conduct 
DRN-1628290Authoritys (FCA) code of conduct. And in particular to the requirement to pay due regard to 
the interests of customers and treat them fairly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this must have been a distressing time for Mrs B and why it would be 
beneficial to have the death benefits paid in a way that suits her needs best. However, we 
are an impartial service and part of our role is to consider the interests of both sides equally.
As Phoenix explained the statuary override that came into place in 2014 was not mandatory 
for a reason. The government had considered making this mandatory but following feedback 
from the industry it changed its position. It was recognised that this would result in all 
schemes having to become drawdown providers. And this would bring about costs and 
consequences that were unfair and disproportionate to providers if the rules were enforced 
across the board on all schemes and products. So instead the legislation was released as 
enabling legislation that allowed those schemes that wished to offer flexible payments to do 
so.
Phoenix Life has explained why it will not offer the statutory override on the products that Mr 
B had. Its said that it chose not to offer all of the flexible payment types that were introduced 
under the pension freedoms across its products. And in particular it chose not to offer any of 
the new death benefit options to policies that did not already support these. As Mr Bs 
policies did not offer income drawdown in any form when they were taken out either for 
himself or his dependents, it does not provide flexible payments to beneficiaries or transfer 
of death benefits.
Mrs B has questioned whether Phoenix Life is acting within the spirit of the FCAs code of 
conduct and is paying due regard to its customers and treating them fairly in this case. 
However, I think Phoenixs explanation of its position on the death benefits payable to Mrs B 
is fair and reasonable.
The legislation is enabling and Phoenix explained why it wasnt offered on Mr Bs policies. 
Flexible drawdown wasnt an option available to Mr B when he took his benefits on his 
policies, so to offer this now would be an amendment to this product and its rules. And its 
explained that part of this consideration has been around the makeup of the individual 
products. Presumably its decision to not offer the flexible options across the board is due to 
the administrative consequences and costs required as previously referred to in the 
consultation.
The decision it made isnt in contradiction of legislation and is in line with the scheme rules 
that were agreed to when Mr B took out the products. Phoenix under the legislation has 
been permitted to consider what flexible options it offers on its products. To treat its 
customers fairly and pay regard to their interests, many factors have to be considered and 
business decisions encompassing all its customers need to be made. If Phoenix were to just 
to make individual decisions on each occasion it would almost certainly fall foul of the 
regulators code of conduct rules and Id suggest it would have commercial consequences 
that would then indirectly adversely affect its customers best interests. Furthermore, Im not 
aware that the FCA has any concerns about the way in which Phoenix Life has chosen to 
implement the statutory override in regard to death benefits.
In conclusion having considered all the evidence I dont think Phoenix has done anything 
wrong and I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14July2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman