DRN-3518717
The complaint
Ms H and Ms N are business partners. They complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down their business interruption claim after their business was 
impacted by Covid-19.
What happened
Ms H and Ms N held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. They claimed on 
their policy after their business was impacted by Covid-19.
RSA said the policy didnt cover Ms H and Ms Ns claim. It said they had not shown that 
Covid-19 had manifested itself at their premises before the Governments lockdown 
restrictions had come into force. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, Ms H and Ms N brought their complaint to our service. They 
said that RSAs decision was unfair because their business had been interrupted by
Covid-19. They said that it was likely Covid-19 had been present at their premises given the 
number of customers theyd had before lockdown, although widespread testing had not been 
available in March 2020. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. He didnt 
think that Ms H and Ms N had shown it was more likely than not that a case of Covid-19 
manifested itself at their premises before they closed. 
Ms H and Ms N didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They said that Ms Hs 
brother-in-law (who Ill refer to as Mr A) had been at the premises in March 2020. Very sadly, 
he lost his life on 2 April 2020 due to Covid-19, which was diagnosed when he was taken 
into hospital. She had also had symptoms, but it had not been possible to test herself and 
others at that time. 
Our Investigator asked Ms H whether she had evidence that Mr A had been at the premises 
before the business was closed in March 2020 due to the lockdown restrictions. Ms H said 
that the only evidence that she had was that he was rewiring the back shop for new electrical 
switches when he started to feel ill with a cough and breathlessness. He didnt get to finish 
the work, which remains as he left it. Ms H said that her husband (Mr H) had been working 
with Mr A at that time. Ms H, Mr H and Ms N could verify this evidence and could send 
photographs of the unfinished work.
After my initial review I asked Ms H whether she could provide any further evidence to show 
that Mr As symptoms of Covid-19 manifested at the business premises. In summary, she 
said:
Mr A was the landlord of their business premises and had been feeling symptoms 
while in the shop doing the electrical work. Hed made a call to the urgent care team 
on 29 March 2020 and was immediately admitted to hospital before passing away on 
2 April 2020. Ms H, Mr H and Ms N are willing to give evidence to say that Mr A was 
at the premises in the weeks leading up to him contracting Covid-19. 
Ms H has WhatsApp messages to say that Mr A was calling into the shop to read the 
meter and also one saying he was going to help out but these were for previous 
dates as he was at the shop on a regular basis. In any event, she understands that 
Covid-19 manifested in China and spread around the world.  
Ms H said her conversations with Mr A about Covid-19 were verbal while he was in 
the shop and in the hospital. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ms Hs and Ms Ns business.
Im also very sorry to hear about the very sad loss of Mr A. But despite my natural sympathy 
for Ms H and her family, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ms H and Ms Ns claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Ms H and Ms Ns policy covers business 
interruption loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ms H and 
Ms Ns claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result 
of a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at their business premises. For a case to have 
manifested itself at the premises, I think that someone would either need to have been 
diagnosed with Covid-19 or have displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
As Ms H says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and 
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Ms H and Ms N have said that the number of customers at their premises before lockdown 
meant it was likely that Covid-19 had been present and they also make the point that the 
disease first manifested itself in China. I appreciate that Covid-19 manifested itself around 
the world. But for a successful claim under the policy I have to see it was more likely than 
not that a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at Ms H and Ms Ns business premises. And the 
prevalence of Covid-19 generally isnt enough to demonstrate that that happened. I asked Ms H for any additional evidence she could provide about Mr As symptoms and 
work at the business premises. Im grateful for the time she has taken to answer my 
questions, not least because of the distressing circumstances. 
Ms H, Mr H and Ms N are willing to verify that Mr A had been working at their business 
premises in the weeks leading up to lockdown. But they arent able to provide any additional 
direct evidence to show that Mr A was at the premises when he had symptoms of Covid-19.
The term manifesting as it is used in Ms H and Ms Ns policy refers to the person suffering 
the disease displaying symptoms. It is not enough in the circumstances of this complaint for 
a pre-symptomatic individual to have sustained the disease and been on the premises. 
This means that the evidence needed for a claim to be met must show that an individual had 
symptoms of Covid-19 whilst at the premises and that this caused the restrictions that were 
placed on the premises. 
Ms H has explained that Mr As symptoms led to his call to urgent care on 29 March 2020, 
which is over a week after the Government announced the lockdown restrictions on 
20 March 2020. I dont think the weight of evidence is enough for me to find that it was more 
likely than not that Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises before the Governments 
lockdown restrictions were introduced, as is necessary for their claim to succeed.
I appreciate that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Ms H, given her family 
circumstances, and to Ms N. But having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think 
I can fairly require RSA to pay their claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman