DRN-3306812
The complaint
Mr S is not happy Starling Bank Limited allowed a transaction that put his account into an 
unauthorised overdraft. He is also unhappy the bank wont remove markers placed on his 
credit file as a result of the overdraft. 
What happened
Mr S says in June 2019 when he went on holiday he rented a vehicle and paid cash for the 
rental. He says he also paid a security deposit using his Starling bank card, and that was 
deposited back into his account at the end of the rental period.
Mr S says he transferred the security deposit from his personal account into his business 
account which was also held with Starling. Mr S says he doesnt use the personal account 
on a regular basis, nor does he check it often. 
Mr S says in July 2019 the rental company took a further payment from his personal account 
which put him into an unarranged overdraft since the balance on the account prior to this 
transaction was zero. 
Mr S says since he wasnt really using his personal account, and because it had a zero 
balance, he wasnt checking it regularly. Mr S says Starling did send him messages through 
the banking app but he didnt see them because he wasnt using the account. 
Mr S says he didnt receive any calls or letters to alert him to the fact that his personal 
account was in an unarranged overdraft. In January 2021 Mr S says he started the process 
of applying for a mortgage. He says his mortgage advisor checked his credit file and told him 
it had recorded several missed payments on the file, and this would hamper his effort to be 
accepted for a mortgage. 
Ms S says he contacted Sterling Bank immediately and was told he needed to contact the 
rental company in ordered to sort out the unauthorised payment, and if he wasnt able to 
reach a resolution he would be able to dispute the transaction through the bank. 
Mr S says he contacted the rental company several times but didnt receive a response. Mr 
S says Starling told him that since 120 days had passed since the date of the transaction he 
was no longer able to raise a dispute. 
Ms S isnt happy that Starling didnt tell him about the overdraft for over a year. Mr S says in 
that time Starling have accepted him for a further business account and loan even though 
his credit file shows missed payments and he had an account in unarranged overdraft.
Mr S complained to Starling. Starling said the transaction charged to the account was made 
by chip and pin and was made offline. It explained this is when the terminal doesnt dial out 
for an authorisation and stores the card details to process the transaction at a later date. And 
this is the reason the amount was debited when the account had a zero balance. Starling 
explained since the transaction was authorised using chip and pin it cant be raised as 
fraudulent under the chargeback scheme. Starling said when the account was overdrawn in 
July 2019 it contacted Mr S to inform him about the status of the account. But it didnt hear 
from Mr S until January 2021. Starling said it was unable to amend the credit file due to its 
obligations to report accurately on its customers circumstances. And so it didnt uphold Mr S 
complaint. 
Mr S was not happy with the response from Starling and so his complaint was referred to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things and concluded she didnt think Starling 
needed to take any action in respect of Mr S complaint. She said she was satisfied the 
transaction was properly authorised and based on what she had seen she felt Starling had 
shown it had attempted to contact Mr S regarding the overdraft.  The investigator also 
agreed Starling was not able to amend the credit file due to its obligations. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt receive any communication regarding the overdraft and 
the bank allowed him to open a business account knowing his personal account was 
overdrawn. Mr S said the payments shouldnt have been recorded as missed on his credit 
file. The complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S who clearly feels very strongly about this matter. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I have made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence. 
Disputed transaction
Mr S paid the security deposit for his hire vehicle using his bank card. Mr S says when the 
vehicle was returned the hire company repaid his security deposit and he transferred this 
into his business account. Mr S says the hire company later debited an amount from his 
account that put him into an unauthorised overdraft. 
Starling has said the transaction was a chip and pin transaction and therefore it was 
authorised by Mr S. Starling explained the transaction was made offline which is why the 
payment went through even though the funds werent in the account. I agree with the 
investigator here in that it is common for hire companies to retain payment card details in 
case they need to apply charges following return of the vehicle. And it looks like that is 
whats happened here. Since the amount debited matches the amount of security deposit on 
the original booking confirmation. 
I am therefore satisfied the transaction was authorised and Starling didnt do anything wrong 
in allowing the payment to be made. 
Overdraft
The transaction caused Mr Ss account to go into an unauthorised overdraft. I have seen 
evidence from Starling that it made numerous attempts to contact Mr S regarding the 
overdraft. It sent SMS messages and messages via the app. Mr S says he didnt receive 
those messages and would have expected a letter or a call. Ultimately its up to Starling how 
it chooses to communicate with customers provided its one of the agreed communication 
methods.
Starling Bank is a branchless, paperless digital bank. And in the terms and conditions it says 
it will communicate with customers by text, email, via the app, or by letter. So whilst I cant explain why Mr S didnt receive the messages this isnt something I can fairly hold Starling 
responsible for. Overall Im satisfied Starling sent the messages to Mr S regarding the 
overdraft in line with its terms and conditions. 
I note the messages sent to Mr S regarding the new business bank account were received 
with no issues.  
Credit file 
Starling has an obligation to record and report accurate information to the relevant credit 
reference agencies. So the reporting on the status overdraft would be an accurate 
representation of the account. I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest 
anything Starling reported is inaccurate or incorrect. 
Where the overdraft remains unpaid it is recorded as a missed payment since the debt 
remains outstanding. 
If a debt that is owed is not repaid, as is the case here, Starling is obligated to report this, 
which is what it did. And so I dont think it needs to remove the markers on Mr Ss credit file.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is not to uphold this complaint against Starling 
Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman