DRN-3025978
The complaint
Ms T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a payment made on her credit card to 
a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for two tickets to a concert. 
What happened
In December 2016 two tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a concert in 
2017 using Ms Ts HSBC credit card. These were for her and her mother who has a 
disability which means accessing where shes going is important to her. They realised before 
the concert that the face value of the tickets was a lot less than she had paid. And when they 
attended the concert they found they were in the upper tier which provided issues for Ms Ts 
mother. And this led to their experience of the concert being negatively impacted. So she 
complained to the Website but was unsuccessful. So she then complained to HSBC. 
HSBC says it considered raising a chargeback but didnt do so because it didnt think there 
was a reasonable prospect of success as it felt it was out of time. It says it hasnt had 
opportunity to properly consider s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but also thinks that 
there wasnt sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. So it 
doesnt think it could do any more for Ms T.
Ms T didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, they didnt think how HSBC treated this matter had led to Ms 
T losing out. Ms T didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which Ms T then bought). It is solely about what HSBC did or didnt 
do.
Ms T accepts she made this transaction for these tickets on the day in question and that she 
did this transaction with the Website in question. She says she wasnt properly told about the 
costs involved and didnt know the total cost to be charged compared to the face value of the 
tickets.
This service has seen a number of complaints about this website and has built up through 
these cases (and its enquiries) a detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went 
through when purchasing tickets. This understanding includes understanding changes to the 
selling process over several years. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Ms T would have gone through at 
the time she bought the tickets and what she would have seen on the website. And having 
considered when these tickets were sold and what this service knows I appreciate that the 
full cost wasnt shown at the very beginning of the sales process. However Im satisfied on 
balance that when Ms T went through the several stages/pages of the sales process and got 
towards the end of the sales process and had to enter her card details, the total cost to be 
charged to her was shown at that point and before she completed the transaction.
Accordingly Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Ms T and correctly 
applied to Ms Ts credit card account with HSBC. And clearly the amount charged to her 
account is the key cost for authorising such a transaction.
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Ms T 
does here, HSBC (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think HSBC couldve challenged the payment on the basis Ms T didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
HSBC is required to consider the situation, the chargeback rules and whether there is a 
reasonable prospect of success when it is considering whether to go through the chargeback 
process or not. If it does go through the process, then it must do so properly. The supplier 
(the Website) would then receive that chargeback request and may agree to refund the 
payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, then HSBC should consider this and 
then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback further and 
ultimately to the scheme provider (not HSBC) who will then make an independent 
determination on the matter. So HSBC isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to 
refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it can decide to not proceed 
at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
HSBC says it couldnt do a chargeback because of the amount of time that had passed 
between the transaction and when Ms T raised her concerns with it. Im not necessarily 
persuaded by this, but I dont think it makes a difference. Ultimately there isnt any 
persuasive evidence that something went wrong with the transaction itself (authorisation, 
amount, double charged for example) or that the tickets wouldnt be delivered or that access 
to the event would be denied. And in the end they were delivered, and Ms T and her mother 
did attend the concert. Consequently I dont think Ms T has lost out because of this position 
taken by HSBC.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Ms Ts HSBC credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against HSBC as she does against 
the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. The Act includes certain financial limits for s75 to apply which have a minimum and 
maximum levels. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website does 
provide a service. And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says 
it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Ms T, HSBC and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information is displayed to buyers. And I 
think, under the guarantee, its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if 
the seller doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets.
The financial limits necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 are that the service provided 
by the Website must have a cash price of more than £100. Ive seen a breakdown of the 
costs of the tickets and fees from the Website. But whether or not this dispute meets the 
financial limits required for Section 75 doesnt make a difference for the reasons I shall now 
explain. 
For a successful claim Ms T would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website. She says the pricing wasnt clear enough. But she did receive the tickets 
and used those tickets to gain entry to the event. The Website does provide a guarantee 
here so if shed tried to get in and couldnt shed not have lost out.
This service has built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes and what 
consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. This includes screenshots of 
the process from around the time that Ms T was using the website.  Clearly in many sales 
process things can be done better as Ms T argues. But HSBC can only be responsible here 
if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially impacted Ms Ts 
decisions. This is a different test to whether or not the Website concerned could be better or 
could have made things clearer.
There was no breach here because the tickets Ms T bought were supplied to her. And 
having considered the website sales process throughout from the time Ms T used it, Im not 
persuaded she was told anything that was untrue which led her to make decisions shed not 
have made otherwise.
Ms T has made the point that due to her mothers disability accessing the seats and leaving 
the concert were problematic. And I can appreciate this considering what she says about her 
mothers disability and what she says about the position of the seats they booked. However 
Ms T has provided the booking confirmation from the website which states that the seats 
were in the upper tier. And this is where Ms T says the seats she got were. So although the 
specific seat numbers werent given at the time of sale Im not persuaded that Ms T was 
misrepresented to on this issue. And I think she knew when she bought them theyd be in 
the upper tier. So I dont think she was told anything untrue. And as she got the tickets and 
used them then clearly there is no breach of contract on this point.
Ms T also says that its unfair she paid over £300 when the face value of the tickets is nearer 
£100. However I think the website made clear it was a ticket reselling website. And I think 
the costs were explained during the process she went through. So Im not persuaded HSBC 
has treated her unfairly here.In summary I think Ms T could see the total price when she got to the end of the sales 
process on the website. And I think HSBC correctly applied the total cost to Ms Ts credit 
card account. And Im not persuaded there was any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
here. So I dont think I can fairly require HSBC to refund Ms T for the tickets. As a 
consequence this complaint is unsuccessful. However I do appreciate that this isnt the result 
Ms T was looking for. But it needs to be remembered that HSBC can only be held 
accountable for what it is responsible for and obligated to do. 
Although it doesnt make a difference I should add for consistency reasons (with other cases 
similar to this) that under the Act I could consider what happened here under S56. This 
broadens the scope of what I could consider around what happened here. But Id only be 
able to uphold under S56 if I thought there was a breach or misrepresentation somewhere in 
what happened in this case. And I dont think there was. So whether I consider this case 
under S56 and S75 or under S75 alone doesnt make a difference here.
So in summary my decision is that HSBC hasnt treated Ms T unfairly here. And accordingly 
her complaint is unsuccessful. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms T.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman