DRN-4216936
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltds (FLIC) decision to decline 
a claim under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to FLIC includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
Mr E has an LEI policy which is underwritten by FLIC. In August 2021, he sought cover 
under the policy to pursue a legal claim against a barrister who he said had breached a 
contract by allegedly giving Mr E negligent legal advice. FLIC considered the claim but 
declined it on the basis it didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success, which is a condition 
of the policy. 
Mr E disagreed and so, FLIC referred the legal claim to its panel solicitor  who Ill refer to as 
P - for advice. P advised the legal claim didnt enjoy prospects of success because it didnt 
consider the barrister to have acted negligently. P added that even if the legal claim did 
enjoy prospects of success, it wasnt proportionate to pursue  which is another condition of 
the policy. Based on this, FLIC maintained its position that the claim wasnt covered.
Mr E disagreed. He added that the barrister against whom he was seeking to pursue legal 
action had unfairly influenced the outcome of another complaint Mr E had with this Service, 
and he thought P should take that into account. P did so but said it didnt change the legal 
opinion it had reached and so, FLICs decision remained unchanged.
Unhappy, Mr E brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but didnt 
uphold it. She was satisfied FLIC was entitled to rely on Ps legal advice to determine if the 
claim was covered, and she hadnt seen evidence to persuade her that FLIC had treated          
Mr E unfairly. 
Because Mr E disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has provided an abundance of information for this Service to consider  a substantial 
amount of which relates to the legal dispute he is seeking to pursue. Whilst I know Mr E feels 
very strongly about this, I cant comment on the merits of his legal claim. I am instead 
deciding whether FLIC has treated him fairly by declining to cover his claim. 
In reaching my decision, I have looked at everything both parties have provided, but my 
decision will only focus on those issues which I consider to be relevant to the complaint. And 
for the avoidance of doubt, I am only considering the complaint issues addressed by FLIC in 
its final response letter dated 3 October 2022.
Ive seen Mr E has been given extensions to provide further information to this Service. This 
 along with the wealth of information hes provided  satisfies me I have enough information 
to reach a fair and reasonable decision on this complaint. 
FLICs decision to decline Mr Es claim
FLIC has declined Mr Es LEI claim saying it doesnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success 
and isnt proportionate to pursue. The starting point in determining whether this is fair is the 
policy document which in terms of prospects of success says there isnt cover: 
Where, in our, the administrators or the authorised representatives opinion, your 
claim does not have a reasonable prospect of success. 
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear that for the claim to be covered, there needs to be 
reasonable prospects of success  or put another way, the legal dispute must have more 
than a 51% chance of winning. This is a standard condition, common to LEI policies, and 
isnt a requirement this Service considers to be unfair as ultimately, the insurer carries the 
risk of having to pay the other sides legal costs if the legal dispute is unsuccessful.  
With regards to proportionality, the policy says: 
Your insurance does not cover professional fees and/or defendants costs: [] 
where, in our opinion, the value / amount in dispute is disproportionate to the time 
and professional fees involved in its pursuit.  
The requirement that costs are not too high when compared to the value of the claim is 
another standard requirement and is largely universal to LEI policies. So, on the face of it, 
its reasonable that FLIC has declined Mr Es claim when it considers these two conditions to 
have not been met. 
But in deciding whether FLIC has acted fairly, I need to consider how it reached its decision. 
It seems FLIC made a preliminary decision that the claim didnt enjoy prospects of success 
and then subsequently referred the matter to P for legal advice. FLIC isnt a legal expert and 
so, its standard practice for insurers to rely on the advice of legally qualified experts when 
determining if a claim is covered by the policy. 
Ive looked at the legal advice P has provided. I note the advice was provided by a suitably 
qualified legal expert with the relevant experience and skills. Having read the advice, Ive not 
seen anything obviously wrong with it, and so, Im not persuaded FLIC acted unfairly by 
relying on it. 
Whilst I understand Mr E is aggrieved FLIC didnt provide the contact details for P, I dont 
think it treated him unfairly by doing so. I say this because ultimately, the advice P provided 
was for FLIC not Mr E, and so, Mr E wasnt entitled to speak to P.  
Mr E has said FLIC has withheld information from P to avoid paying the claim. But Ive not 
seen evidence to support this. Rather, from what Ive seen FLIC has provided P with the 
information it required to advise on prospects of success and proportionality. 
Furthermore, Ive also seen that when Mr E challenged Ps advice and wanted it to consider 
a further point to see if it made a difference to its legal opinion  namely, that Mr E 
considered the barrister about whom he wanted to pursue action against to have unfairly influenced another complaint with this Service  FLIC did so. It provided reasoned advice to 
FLIC explaining why it was satisfied Mr Es claim hadnt been prejudiced, and reiterated that 
even if prospects existed, the claim remained disproportionate to pursue. So, Im not 
persuaded Mr E has been treated unfairly in this respect. 
Challenging Ps legal opinion 
Im aware Mr E has sought his own legal opinion to challenge Ps advice which he considers 
shows his legal dispute enjoys reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr E has said he wants this Service to consider the legal opinion, but our Investigator has 
explained that as the opinion post-dates FLICs final response, it cant be considered as part 
of this complaint. 
FLIC has agreed to review the legal advice and will provide a response to it  which is what 
Id expect it to do. If following its review, Mr E disagrees with the outcome FLIC reaches hed 
first need to complain to it before referring the matter to this Service. 
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied it was reasonable for FLIC to rely on Ps legal advice to conclude 
Mr Es legal claim didnt enjoy prospects of success and wasnt proportionate to pursue and 
that in turn, there wasnt cover under the policy. And so, Im satisfied its decision to decline 
Mr Es claim was fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman