DRN-3957314
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
a scam. 
Mr P is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In December 2018 Mr P was looking to purchase a car. And he came across an advert for 
one that interested him on a website hed previously used to make purchases  which he 
therefore considered to be a trusted and reputable platform. 
Mr P says he carried out a Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) check before travelling to 
view the car (at the address listed on the V5 document (logbook) the seller had provided) 
with a mechanic, who looked over the vehicle. Then, after test driving the car, he decided to 
purchase the car. Mr P was provided with the logbook and the original sales documents from 
when the car was first purchased. 
To pay for the car, Mr P made payments to the seller in cash and via bank transfer. The 
relevant transactions are:
Date Type Amount
1 December 2018 Cash Withdrawal £10,000
3 December 2018 Faster payment £1
3 December 2018 Faster payment £10,000
Total: £20,001
Mr P took receipt of the car and had it in his possession for about two years, taxing and 
insuring it during this time. At this point, Mr P was contacted by the Driver and Vehicle 
Licensing Agency (DVLA) who said they needed to inspect the car as they were suspect of 
its authenticity. The inspection found that the car was cloned and so it was seized. Mr P 
attempted to call the seller but the number was no longer in use. 
Mr P has explained he contacted the website that listed the advert, the police and Action 
Fraud but was told they couldnt help. And he also reported it to Santander but they said it 
was a dispute between him and the seller.
C complained to Santander, on Mr Ps behalf, in October 2022. They said the transactions 
were unusual based on Mr Ps normal account usage and so Santander ought to have 
identified this and stepped in  asking probing questions and providing effective scam 
warnings. By not doing so, Santander failed to protect Mr P from the risk of fraud. To resolve 
the complaint, Mr P would accept reimbursement of the monies lost.
Santander rejected the complaint. They explained Mr P authorised the transactions, and the 
correct level of security and personal credentials were used to complete them. And, based 
on the information theyd received, they considered the matter to be a civil dispute between 
Mr P and the seller  as Mr P received the car he paid for. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator didnt think 
Santander had to do anything further. She said even if Santander had intervened before 
processing the transactions, she thought they wouldve still gone ahead. This was because 
Mr P would likely have told Santander about the checks hed done when viewing the car 
along with the paperwork hed received from the seller. There werent therefore any obvious 
signs that it was a scam, and so there wasnt anything further Santander couldve done to 
prevent it at the time.  
C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, C added:
The seller deliberately set out to defraud Mr P  evidenced by the fake 
documentation such as the logbook that was provided to him. The seller had taken 
several steps to conceal the fact the car was cloned, demonstrating an awareness 
the car was stolen and disguised this to defraud Mr P. 
The seller was successful in obtaining Mr Ps money due to Santanders lack of fraud 
prevention measures. 
Theres been cases resolved by the Financial Ombudsman similar to Mr Ps 
complaint which have received full reimbursement. They considered this complaint 
should be resolved in the same way. 
Before I explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im only 
considering Mr Ps complaint here. And so, while C has referred to similarities between 
Mr Ps case and others the Financial Ombudsman has considered, albeit without providing 
specific details of these cases, Ill only be looking at  and commenting on  the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sympathetic to Mr Ps situation and I dont underestimate the impact of paying for a car, 
which he no longer has, has had on him. But what I must consider here is whether 
Santander is responsible for the loss he suffered. And, for similar reasons to our 
Investigator, I dont think they are. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, consumers are generally liable for 
payments they authorise. Santander is expected to process authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. As a bank, they also have long-standing obligations to help protect 
customers from financial harm from fraud and scams. But those are predicated on there 
having been a fraud or scam. 
Santander has referred to this being a civil dispute between Mr P and the seller, rather than 
a scam. Ive considered this and, while I note Mr P did receive the car he paid for, I think its 
reasonable to assume the seller didnt inform him the car was cloned and mis-led him. 
Otherwise, I think Mr P wouldnt have proceeded to purchase the car. And, from the 
information provided, it seems the seller took intricate steps to disguise this from Mr P  such as providing a logbook. And so, in these particular circumstances, I think the seller was 
intent on defrauding Mr P from the outset. Because of this, I think the car sale was a scam.
As Mr P authorised the payments, and cash withdrawal, Santander were expected to 
process them and Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking 
into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Santander to 
take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive firstly thought about the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code which can offer 
a potential means of obtaining a refund following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. 
But the CRM Code didnt come into effect until 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply 
retrospectively. This means, as the two faster payments Mr P made on 3 December 2018 
were before this, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered 
whether HSBC should reimburse Mr P under any of their other obligations.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr P to Santander (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having looked at Mr Ps account usage before the scam occurred, the cash withdrawals he 
made were for relatively small amounts  below £500. So, the £10,000 withdrawn on 
1 December 2018 was for significantly more than how he typically used his account. 
Because of this, I think Santander ought to have questioned Mr P about the withdrawal 
before releasing it.
Ive therefore considered what wouldve likely happened if Santander had questioned Mr P 
about the withdrawal, or even the subsequent fund transfers. And, if they had, then I think 
Mr P wouldve explained he was purchasing a car that hed seen advertised online. At this 
point, given the potential risk of it being a scam, Santander ought to have enquired about 
what checks Mr P had undertaken to ensure he was buying a legitimate vehicle. And in 
response to appropriate questioning, I think its reasonable to think Mr P wouldve said:
He found the car on an online website that hed used before and considered 
reputable.
The seller was advertising other vehicles and they didnt have any negative 
reviews/ratings.
He considered the asking price to be reasonable for the make and model  as, while 
it was under market value, it had some minor damage. 
He did a VIN check on the car before travelling to the address listed in the logbook to 
view it.
He visited the car with a mechanic and test drove it.
The seller provided him with the sales documents from when the car was first 
purchased, the logbook and original keys. 
From this, I think Santander wouldve been satisfied that Mr P had carried out appropriate 
due diligence ahead of purchasing the car. And given the professionalism of the scam, 
evidenced by the fake logbook and the VIN check not returning any cause for concern, I find 
it highly unlikely any line of questioning by Santander wouldve given Mr P reason to believe 
he was being scammed. Because of this, even if Santander had intervened before releasing 
the transactions, I think Mr P wouldve still made them. Santander has also shown that they contacted the receiving bank when Mr P first contacted 
the scam in 2020 regarding any remaining funds. I think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances but, unfortunately, it seems funds couldnt be recovered. 
Im sorry Mr P has been the victim of a scam but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Santander is responsible for the loss hes suffered. I therefore think they acted fairly by not 
refunding the transactions in question. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman