DRN-2376372
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) take too long to let him use his full 
credit limit after hes paid some of the balance off. He feels this is particularly unfair, as hes 
paying what he feels is a high rate of interest on the balance owed.
What happened
In their response to Mr Rs complaint, Vanquis explained that they add money to a credit 
account as soon as its received. But they said they dont allow that money to be used until a 
period where the payment could be reversed has passed. Theyve said this is in line with the 
terms of the credit agreement with Mr R, as is the rate of interest hes charged. 
But Vanquis accept that the way this was written on Mr Rs monthly statements made it look 
like he could use the credit before he was allowed to. They paid him £25 to apologise. 
Mr R wasnt happy with that response, so he brought the matter to us. Our investigator 
explained how the standard system for handling cheques works. This, he said, was in line 
with what Vanquis were doing, and what theyd said would be done in their terms and 
conditions. So he didnt uphold that part of the complaint. He also felt Vanquis were acting 
reasonably to charge interest at the rate agreed with Mr R when the credit agreement began. 
Like Vanquis though, our investigator found the statements had been misleading about how 
much credit could be used. He explained other options Mr R had for getting an up-to-date 
figure for the available amount, and said a total of £100 compensation better matched the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Vanquis paid the extra £75 to carry out this remedy, but Mr R then said he didnt agree with 
the view. He repeated his complaints, and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter 
again. So its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr R feels strongly about the issues hes raised. So I feel hes going to be 
disappointed that my decision is that the business have now done enough to put things right. 
Ill explain why Ive come to that conclusion.
Ill deal with the point Mr Rs made about his interest rate first. Mr Rs commented that the 
interest rate on his credit with Vanquis is much higher than the current Bank of England base 
rate. Thats not unusual though. Its a business decision for Vanquis, and indeed any lender, 
to decide how much interest theyll charge on the money they lend. They simply need to 
make customers aware of what theyll be charged to borrow the money. Customers can then 
make an informed choice whether to accept the rate offered, or find other ways to fund 
whatever they want the money for. 
I can see Mr R is aware what his rate is, so I find Vanquis have done enough to allow him to 
make that informed choice here. Its up to Mr R whether he continues to borrow money from 
Vanquis at that rate, if he thinks he can find a better rate elsewhere. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that theres a delay between Mr R paying towards the 
balance on his credit card, and his then being able to use the available credit. Looking at the 
terms and conditions for the credit agreement between Mr R and Vanquis, this seems to fit 
with term 9.4. Ill quote the key bit, for ease of reference:
we [Vanquis] reserve the right to withhold authorisation for a transaction on your 
Account until your repayment has cleared through the banking system Please 
ensure that you allow enough time for your payment to clear through the banking 
system.
Our investigator explained how the banking system for cheques can add eight days to the 
time it takes them to be fully cleared. Im satisfied that the delays Mr Rs unhappy with come 
from the time it takes for those sorts of processes to run, rather than any mistakes by 
Vanquis. 
I appreciate Mr Rs comment that other credit providers handle payments quicker than 
Vanquis. But that doesnt mean Vanquis have to handle things in the same way. Their terms 
and conditions explained what they would do, and it looks like theyve kept to that. 
Its a commercial decision for Vanquis to operate that way, just as its a personal decision for 
Mr R whether to continue to use their service, if he thinks other providers would do better. 
But theres no mistake being made, so Im not going to tell Vanquis to do things differently.
With that said, it seems to be agreed that Vanquis statements are a little misleading about 
how much credit Mr R can use shortly after hes made a payment. The money is credited as 
soon as its received, so Mr R doesnt pay interest on what hes paid off after that point. But 
the credit cant be used until the period where the money could be taken back has passed. 
I agree the statement isnt particularly clear on this detail. And I can see thats led to Mr R 
trying to use the credit when authorisation was going to be withheld. So the question for me 
is how to put that right. 
Putting things right
As our investigator noted, the process being used has now been explained in detail to Mr R. 
So Im happy that going forward, he should know that the available to spend part of his 
statement may be different to what he will be immediately authorised to use. Im satisfied 
that the other options available to Mr R for real-time figures do enough to inform him, should 
he wish to check beforehand, how much hell be able to spend.
The only other factor here is the trouble and upset the misleading information in the 
statement has caused for Mr R. Hes shown us online transactions that were declined, which 
our investigator felt would have caused some embarrassment and upset for Mr R. And I 
understand Mr R had similar experiences in a supermarket, where his card was declined. 
I feel this does go a little beyond the £25 compensation Vanquis initially offered. But the 
impact is still limited, in the sense Mr R hasnt been put to any additional financial hardship 
here. The card was rightly declined, its just that shouldnt have been a surprise for Mr R. 
Looking at the extra £75 Vanquis have now paid, my decision is the impact on Mr R has now 
been suitably acknowledged. I appreciate Mr R thinks the service hes received is much 
worse than Ive found. But for the reasons above, the actual delay authorising his use of the credit, and the interest rate hes been charged, are the result of commercial decisions that 
Vanquis are entitled to make when lending him money. 
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited. A total payment of £100 in 
compensation is suitable to put this right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman