DRN-1683637
 
Complaint
Mrs N says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Itc Compliance 
Limited have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to Itc in 
this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs N was sold the policy when she took out a hire purchase agreement in 2007. She added 
the cost of the PPI onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy. 
It covered her in case she was unable to work because of an accident or illness.
I sent Mrs N and Itc a provisional decision on 20 February 2020, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
The demands and needs statement details that an advisor went through Mrs Ns 
circumstances with her and recommended whether she take different insurances or not. 
They recommended PPI  and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement, which 
Mrs N was free to agree or disagree with. For instance, its recorded that the advisor also 
recommended Key Insurance, but that Mrs N didnt want it, so it wasnt added on. So it looks 
like Mrs N was aware she could take or leave these insurances. The statement says she 
chose to buy PPI, and Mrs N signed below to confirm she agreed with what was recorded.
Then the credit agreement described the PPI as optional and set out its costs separately to 
the costs of the hire purchase itself  the PPI wasnt part and parcel of the lending. There 
was a section for insurance, with a box that could be ticked if Mrs N wanted PPI, or which 
could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was ticked and Mrs N signed specifically to 
confirm her insurance choices, separately to signing for the agreement as a whole. Overall, 
I think its most likely that Mrs N was made aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so long.
Itc recommended the PPI to Mrs N, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mrs N 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
And while she wouldve got back a limited refund of the PPI if she cancelled it early, I havent 
seen anything to suggest she was planning to repay it early.
Mrs N doesnt seem to have had any sickness cover from work or any other equivalent 
insurance. I understand Mrs Ns partner may have been happy to help, but there was always 
the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this insurance meant Mrs N wouldnt 
have to ask anyone else to make her payments for her if she was off sick. Further, this hire 
purchase was Mrs Ns sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Itc to 
have recommended she rely on other people to pay it. So it looks like the policy couldve 
been useful for Mrs N in case something went wrong.Its possible the information Itc gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs N chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, it looks like Mrs N was eligible for the policy and 
wasnt affected by any the main things it didnt cover. Given how long the policy could have 
paid out for, if Mrs N made a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more than 
she paid for it. And she didnt have equivalent cover elsewhere. So the policy could have 
been useful for Mrs N in case she needed to claim. And so I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out. 
Lastly, Ive considered the rules and guidance for businesses about giving back some of the 
commission paid on certain PPI policies. But that only applies to lenders, and Itc arent the 
lender here, so those rules arent relevant here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
19 March 2020. But neither Mrs N nor Itc sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint about Itc Compliance Limited, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman