DRN-2630269
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he received from The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (Royal London) to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP). Mr H says that he has lost out 
financially as a result and that the payment made to him as part of the industry wide 
Pensions Review in April 2000 was insufficient to properly compensate him for his loss. 
Mr H is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
In 1993, Royal London advised Mr H to transfer his deferred benefits from his former 
employers pension scheme into a PPP. As part of the Pensions Review ordered by the 
regulator at the time, businesses such as Royal London were required to review PPPs sold 
between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994 to determine whether the sale had been compliant. 
If it wasnt, and the consumer had transferred their defined benefits, the business was 
required to either reinstate the consumers benefits into their defined benefit scheme, or of 
this wasnt possible, to augment the value of their PPP in line with a defined calculation 
methodology. 
As a result of the review of Mr Hs PPP, Royal London offered to augment his PPP benefits 
by £994.02. Mr H confirmed his acceptance of this offer in full and final settlement on 17 July 
2000. 
Mr Hs representative complained to Royal London on his behalf in May 2020. It said the 
advice to transfer Mr Ps deferred benefits to a PPP had been unsuitable, and the redress 
paid was not sufficient to put Mr H in the position he would otherwise now be in, but for the 
unsuitable advice. 
Mr Hs representative said it wanted compensation for our client upon the basis of what 
our client's original pension plan would be worth today if the transfer had not taken place 
together with the return of all charges made under the PPP, inclusive of set-up charges and 
annual management charges together with reasonable interest.
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had carried out the review of 
Mr Hs PPP in line with the regulators requirements at the time. It said that, as this was a 
one off exercise, it wasnt prepared to review the outcome. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Royal Londons response and his representative referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She noted that, as Royal London had 
already explained, the advice Mr H received in 1993 to transfer his deferred benefits to a 
PPP wasnt suitable. 
Because Mr H was found to have been disadvantaged, he was offered redress as part of the 
Pensions Review. As this was the case, she explained that she had only considered whether 
she felt Royal London have done enough to put matters right and she had not reviewed the 
suitability of the advice to transfer to the PPP.
She explained that the Pensions Review was intended to be a one-off exercise to try and put 
right any financial loss caused by the unsuitable advice. The calculation methodology and 
assumptions about what would happen between the review and retirement age were set by 
the industry regulator. Businesses were required to use these assumptions and methodology 
when carrying out redress calculations.
Unfortunately, in Mr Hs case it appears he will be worse off in retirement, despite the 
redress he received as part of the Pensions Review, than if he had left his deferred benefits 
in his former employers pension scheme. 
Our investigator said that although she was sympathetic to Mr Hs position, she didnt think 
she could reasonably say that Royal London had done anything wrong when it calculated 
the redress due to Mr H in 2000 using the methodology and assumptions set by the industry 
regulator.
She said that based on the information she had been provided with she was satisfied that 
the data Royal London had used in its redress calculations was correct and there was 
nothing to suggest that the redress was calculated incorrectly. 
Mr Hs representative responded to say he didnt accept our investigators view. It reiterated 
that it felt the advice Mr H had received to transfer his deferred benefits to a PPP was not 
suitable. 
It said that if Mr H had not been advised to transfer his deferred benefits his wife would have 
received a spouses pension from his occupational scheme if Mr H were to pre-decease her. 
It also said Mr H felt the benefits he would have received from his occupational scheme 
far outweighed those of the Royal London scheme by more than the assessed £994.02 
and that he was of course, advised wrongly to transfer it in the first place On this basis our 
client does not agree that the pension review calculation could have been assessed 
correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Hs position and I have carefully considered the points both Mr H and 
his representative have made. Having done so I dont think Mr Hs complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
suitability of advice
It is not in dispute that the advice Mr H received in 1993 to transfer deferred benefits from his 
former employers occupational pension scheme to a PPP was unsuitable. The letter sent to 
Mr H in April 2000 following the review of Mr Hs pension, as part of the Pensions Review, 
set out: 
The outcome of this investigation shows that overall, you would have received higher 
benefits if you had not transferred out of [name of Mr Ps former employer] Pension Scheme. 
Our review has been carried out in accordance with the detailed requirements laid down by 
the Personal Investment Authority....As there is no dispute about whether the advice was unsuitable, I have not considered this 
aspect of Mr Hs complaint any further.
redress received
Mr H and his representative have said that the redress Mr H received in 2000 was not 
sufficient to put him back in the position he would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice he 
received in 1993.
As our investigator explained, the pension review was designed to be a once and for all 
process which was based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair 
methodology, using reasonable assumptions for future growth rates of both the pension 
policy, and where appropriate, augmentation policy funds. 
Its very unfortunate that the expected growth rates havent come to fruition, and I have a 
great deal of sympathy with Mr Hs position here. But this isnt a reason to undertake the 
Pensions Review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a 
business such as Royal London was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but 
also so that it knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future. 
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mr H that 
the error had been recognised and addressed at that point in time  as Ive said above, 
using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to revisit the 
matter many years later. Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at 
retirement rather than undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still 
acceptable  method of resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an 
augmentation sum. 
In the methodology businesses were required to use there were a number of assumptions. 
The most notable of which was the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the 
required benefits at retirement. Unfortunately, these projected growth rates havent been 
borne out by reality. The low interest rate environment from 2008/09 onwards resulted in the 
cost of annuities rising significantly. This means that, for many people, their pension fund at 
retirement isnt sufficient to reproduce the lost scheme benefits. 
But the position of this service is that, as the Pensions Review was designed as a one-off 
process, we wouldnt seek to undo the agreement between Mr H and Royal London even 
though the pension benefits he will receive may well be lower than expected.
redress calculation
I appreciate that Mr H feels the redress calculation carried out in 2000 must have been 
incorrect as he is now worse off than he would have been if he had left his deferred benefits 
in his former employers pension scheme. But as I explained above this service takes the 
view that the Pensions Review was designed to be a one-off process so we wouldnt seek to 
undo the agreement between Mr H and Royal London even though the pension benefits he 
will receive may well be lower than expected.
In the absence of anything to show or suggest that the data Royal London relied on when 
carrying out the redress calculation in 2000 was incorrect I cant reasonably find that the 
calculation was incorrect.However, as our investigator explained, if Mr H or his representative thinks that incorrect 
assumptions were used, or the basis of the calculation was faulty for some other reason, its 
open to him to demonstrate why and, if he deemed it necessary, commission a rerun of the 
calculation. 
But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, if we were satisfied that Royal 
London had undertaken the calculation in good faith, but that minor errors had been made, 
we would simply require it to rerun the calculation using the correct information, and the 
same methodology and key assumptions (including growth) which existed in 2000. 
In closing, Id reiterate that I am sympathetic to Mr Hs position, but for the reasons given I 
cannot uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman