DRN-3340934
The complaint
M complains that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft rejected their insurance claim 
unfairly.
What happened
M had a commercial insurance policy with ERGO, which covered their premises. 
Unfortunately, a fire broke out on the premises on 2 October 2019. The location of the fire 
was in relation to an electricity meter.
M submitted a claim but in the course of their investigations, ERGO discovered a potentially 
dangerous fault had been found during an inspection in July 2019. And while some other 
faults identified had been attended to, one which hadnt was said to be a potential cause of 
the fire.
ERGO pointed out that Ms policy requires them to document that all such defects have been 
remedied, and as they hadnt they were in breach of a policy term. ERGO said that meant 
the claim should be declined.
M explained that the reason they hadnt attended to that particular fault as promptly as some 
others was because it would have had a significant impact on their revenue. They also said 
they didnt regard the fault to have been the cause of the fire and so it was immaterial to the 
claim.
ERGO didnt agree and when an investigator here looked into the matter, they said ERGO 
had acted fairly.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the matter very carefully, I think ERGO was reasonable in their rejection 
of Ms claim.
I dont think its in dispute that M was in breach of a policy term, and while I can understand 
their reasons in relation to revenue, I dont think that means I can uphold their complaint. In 
my view, M made a risk-based assessment and decided to wait for a time that better suited 
them and their customers. I dont think its reasonable for that risk to be passed on to ERGO 
and for them to be expected to cover it.
That leaves the issue of materiality. M argues that the faulty wire wasnt the cause of the fire 
and therefore it is unfair to use that as a reason to deny the claim.
The relevant legislation in relation to such matters is the Insurance Act 2015. That says: the 
insurer may not rely on the non-compliance [of a term] to exclude, limit or discharge its 
liability under the contract for the loss if the insured satisfies subsection (3).
Subsection (3) says: The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-
compliance with the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually 
occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred.
M says they have satisfied this requirement because the fire brigade said the fault was with 
the meter, as opposed to the wiring. ERGO wanted to inspect the meter to try and establish 
the cause but regrettably it was disposed of  as far as I can tell, through no fault of either 
party here.
So, ERGO relied upon a forensic report they commissioned which said:
Approximately three months prior to the fire, the installation was inspected by [electrical 
contractors]. They identified 113 faults that required rectification, one of which could have 
been associated with the electricity meters in the cupboard. The fault identified suggests that 
the meter tails were not supported through their entire run (i.e. they were not clipped to the 
backboard and were hanging loose). This is a potentially dangerous fault as the cables could 
be accidentaly (sic) tugged, or disturbed, from the meter terminations without being able to 
inspect the meter I am unable to eliminate the cause of the fire being due to a poor 
connection at the meter terminations as a result of the cables not being correctly secured.
So, if the fault identified cant be eliminated as a possible cause I dont think I can say it has 
been shown that it couldnt have been material to the loss.
It could be said that it may have been immaterial, but I think the Insurance Act 2015 is clear 
in that its the responsibility of the insured to show that the fault could not have increased the 
risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred.
I dont think M has done that. The forensic report confirms it as a possibility and while M 
says the fire brigade told them it was the meter, theres nothing Ive seen to support that 
assertion.
Overall, while I appreciate the fire has caused significant losses to M, I dont think ERGO 
has been unreasonable in their rejection of the claim.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman