DRN-3619164
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
She says that Barclays didnt do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a 
scam and would like Barclays to refund her the money she has lost.
What happened
Mrs L saw an advert for cryptocurrency supposedly endorsed by three well known TV 
personalities. Her and her husband had had a hard time with their business due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and she was looking for a way to build up what money they had. 
She entered her details online and was contacted by an individual offering an investment 
opportunity in crypto.
Mrs L was persuaded by the individual to make several payments to purchase 
cryptocurrency  however she later realised that she had been scammed and reported this 
to Barclays and made a complaint.
About a month later, Mrs L was contacted by the scammers again  this time they told her 
that they were a specialist recovery company and knew she had been the victim of a scam, 
and offered to get her money back for her. Mrs L then made two further payments for this 
part of the scam.
Barclays upheld Mrs Ls complaint in part as it recognised it could have done more. It offered 
to refund Mrs L 50% of the money she had lost in the initial part of the scam, but not the 
money she had lost to the recovery scam.
Unhappy, Mrs L brought her complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into the 
complaint and thought that it should be upheld in part.
Barclays disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for broadly the same reasons 
as our Investigator. Ill explain why.
It has already been established that Mrs L was the victim of a scam and that she authorised 
the payments in question. So, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), 
Mrs L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, even though she was tricked by the 
scammers into instructing Barclays to make the payments. 
Mrs L made the following payments. The last two payments are the payments made to the 
recovery part of the scam. 
Date Payee Payment type Amount
17 September 2020 CB Transfer £400
17 September 2020 CB Transfer £1,500
18 September 2020 CB Transfer £10,000
21 September 2020 RB International TF £9,429.51
22 September 2020 CB Transfer £2,000
22 September 2020 CB Transfer £20,000
22 September 2020 CB Transfer £1,000
22 September 2020 CB Transfer £10,000
23 September 2020 CB Transfer £13,000
25 September 2020 CB Transfer £2
25 September 2020 CB Transfer £20,000
26 October 2020 SP Debit card £1,700
26 October 2020 SP Debit card £900
Total loss £89,931.51
Should Barclays have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Mrs L made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before 
it happened.
Mrs L authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mrs L made.
The first two payments Mrs L made were of relatively low value, and Im not persuaded that 
Barclays should have become involved at this point. I say this because as Ive explained 
above, there is a balance to be struck and I dont think that they are sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic to have triggered Barclays into taking extra steps before processing Mrs Ls 
payment instructions.
However, by the time the third payment was made for £10,000  I think that Barclays should 
have become involved.
This payment shouldve stuck out to Barclays as being uncommon considering the way in 
which Mr and Mrs M generally used their account, especially given that by January 2019, 
Santander should already have had a good understanding about how scams like the one 
Mr M fell victim to work.
With this in mind, Barclays should reasonably have contacted Mrs L to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing him in financial harm before processing it. I 
wouldve expected it to have questioned Mrs L about the payment  including what she was 
making the payment for and surrounding context and to proceed accordingly. The intention 
being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam. 
I understand that Barclays has already said that some of the payments were released by 
batch process before it had a chance to speak to Mrs L, which is why it has already made an 
offer to repay some of the money that has been lost.
I also know that Barclays did speak with Mrs L on several occasions regarding some of the 
payments she was making too, and Barclays has provided these calls to me. Having listened 
to the calls, I dont think that Barclays did enough on any of the calls provided that would 
lead me to find that it provided an effective and meaningful warning to Mrs L about the 
payments she was making. 
While some of the calls that took place did mention scams, none of them provided enough 
detail, or probed Mrs L about the payments in a way I would expect, especially when it was 
clear that the payments were going to crypto. A warning was given in one of the calls about 
scams involving HMRC and bank staff  but this wasnt relevant to the kind of scam that 
Mrs L had fallen victim to.
So, I think that Barclays missed opportunities to prevent the payments from payment three 
onwards.
Payments made for the recovery part of the scamI understand that Barclays does not feel that it should refund Mrs L the payments she made 
as this part of the scam. It says that as Mrs L reported that she had been scammed before 
these payments were made that she should have been aware that this was also part of the 
scam. But I disagree.
As Barclays should be aware, once a consumer has shown themselves to be susceptible to 
a scam but become aware of what was happened and stopped payments, they are often 
contacted again by the same scammer under the pretence of recovering money for a 
consumer. These scams can be very convincing as the scammer already has a lot of detail 
about what has previously gone on. 
Mrs L has explained that she was devastated to have lost so much money, and so was 
anxious to try and recoup her loss. So, I can understand why she was further persuaded to 
part with more money.
Barclays already knew by this time that Mrs L had shown herself to be vulnerable to scams  
and the payments were again being made to crypto  so it could have picked up on these 
payments but didnt. It wasnt until after these payments had been made that it told Mrs L 
that this was also likely to be a scam during one of the calls it has provided to me. And, if 
Barclays had intervened appropriately from the third payment as set out above, these 
payments would never have happened. So, I think that Barclays should also refund these 
payments too.
Should Mrs L bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that Barclays should have prevented the payments from payment three, I 
do need to consider if Mrs L should bear some responsibility for what happened here by way 
of contributory negligence.
Barclays says that Mrs L should bear responsibility as the rate of return promised by the 
scammer was too good to be true, and that she should have done more checks before 
parting with such a significant sum of money.
However, I am not persuaded that Mrs L should bear responsibility here. Mrs L was not a 
sophisticated investor  and was not technologically savvy either. While there were some 
reviews online that were negative, there were also positive reviews about the company 
Mrs L was dealing with too. Barclays was the expert here, not Mrs L. So, I consider that it 
should have had more knowledge on the intricacies of these types of scams.
It follows that I am satisfied no deduction for contributory negligence should be made from 
payment three onwards.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should refund Mrs L the total of all payments made from payment 
three onwards.
I calculate this figure to be £88,031.51.
Barclays Bank UK PLC can deduct the amount it has already paid Mrs L from this figure.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay Mrs L 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date of each payment until settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman