DRN-3991349
The complaint
Ms P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (trading at the time as Allied Dunbar) gave her 
unsuitable investment advice.
This complaint is brought on behalf of Ms P by a claims management company but to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Ms P as the complainant.
What happened
Ms P sought investment advice from a financial adviser on behalf of Zurich in 1998. The 
adviser conducted what they called a financial health check and recorded down with 
Ms P different aspects of her financial circumstances.
Acting on the advisers recommendation, Ms P agreed to invest £50 a month into a savings 
plan where the proceeds would be invested. This was called a Maximum Investment Plan 
(MIP).
Ms P was looking to save as according to the advisers fact find she wanted to increase 
her savings or create capital. The adviser noted that she wanted to do this to offset 
against future borrowings as and when required.
Ms P through her representative, says after being asked out of a scale of one to four, 
with four being the highest, what her attitude to risk was, she replied two. This, on 
Zurichs scale was on the cautious side of balanced. With Cautious being a rating of 1 
and Speculative being 4. She said investing in a managed fund with 75% in equities is 
not a fair reflection of the attitude to risk she held at that time. She has asked how this is 
suitable as she had no investment experience at the time.
Ms P also complained that she was not looking for life cover and only was looking to 
save. She also mentioned the performance of the fund and that the life cover payment 
affected this performance. 
Zurich replied to Ms P. It said it recommended the Maximum Investment Plan (MIP) and 
this started from 1 February 1998 at a monthly cost of £50. It said she maintained the 
monthly payments until maturity on 1 February 2008. This plan paid out at a value of 
around £7036 and shed paid in £6000. 
Zurich explained that life cover is automatically included in the plan, was only a very 
small part of Ms Ps monthly contribution and Ms P was made aware. It said Ms P had a 
balanced approach to risk as discussed in the meeting and the MIP was suitable for 
someone with that attitude towards investment. It also said Ms P ought to have known 
about the life cover not being suitable and should have made her complaint by now. It 
didnt think this part of her complaint was within our services jurisdiction to look at.
The investigator sent out three views. She first of all issued a view to say that our 
service could look into Ms Ps complaint. Zurich then gave its consent for us to look 
at the merits of Ms Ps complaint. Zurich also said it would offer to refund the cost of 
the life cover plus Bank of England base rate of interest + 1%. This was rejected by 
Ms P.
The investigator then issued a second view and upheld Ms Ps complaint. She felt the 
savings plan was not suitable for Ms P as it didnt reflect her attitude to risk. She said the 
plan invested at least 75% in equities and this was not in line with the score she gave 
the adviser in the meeting that reflected her attitude to risk. 
The Investigator recommended Zurich put Ms P back in a position she would have been 
in but for its unsuitable advice. This involved it working out the difference between a 
more cautious investment and what she had invested in. The investigator then issued a 
third view slightly altering this proposed compensation, after considering comments from 
both parties. 
Zurich on receiving the third view, then made another offer to Ms P. This time it 
offered to work out compensation as if Ms P had invested in a more cautious fixed 
interest deposit fund. This offer was also rejected by Ms P.
Ms Ps complaint has now come to me to review and decide on the merits whether she was 
given suitable advice or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Ps complaint is that she was given advice that was unsuitable by Zurich. 
I have considered two key questions when I have thought about this. The first is whether 
Ms P had the financial capacity to take on the investment that was advised and the 
second is whether the investment was right for her circumstances at the time, including 
the amount of risk she was prepared to take. 
At the time she took this advice, Ms P was in her early twenties and working. She was living 
at home with her parents and had no dependents. She had £8,500 worth of accumulated 
savings that she could rely on. She had no outstanding liabilities and sufficient spare cash 
each month to be able to afford the monthly investment amount that was being proposed. I 
find the balance of the evidence is that Ms P was in a strong enough financial situation to be 
able to invest. 
It appears that Ms P wanted to earn a greater return than she could expect to receive if she 
just paid her monthly amount in deposit-based savings. She didnt require any income from 
the investment  she already had a monthly surplus, and I havent been told about any 
unaddressed spending requirements. She was in a position to be able to invest for the 
medium term. I am supported in saying this by the fact that in the event she kept her 
investment for 10 years. I think on balance, Ms P had capacity at the time, to meet the 
monthly financial commitment of the MIP.
That said, just because I have concluded that Ms P had financial capacity to take on the 
monthly commitment doesnt automatically mean the MIP was suitable for her. It also 
needed to be matched with her attitude to risk and her objectives at the time. So, I have 
looked into this. 
I have looked through the advisers fact find form. There is a section with a question 
directly about risk attitude. It says: what is your attitude to investment? This suggests to me a conversation was had about Ms Ps risk attitude. This led to Zurich identifying            
Ms Ps investment approach as balanced  but I can see this would be on the cautious 
side of balanced. I say this because the second of four options was ticked. The four 
categories on the fact find form were listed as cautious, then two for balanced followed 
by speculative. So, I think, by choosing the lower number for balanced from those listed, 
Ms P was demonstrating a more cautious attitude, but that she was still willing to take 
some risk.
I've also thought carefully about what Ms Ps investment objectives were in 1998. As I 
have already mentioned, the adviser ticked a box in the fact find that it was Ms Ps priority 
to build her savings and that she was looking to accumulate tax free capital in ten years 
time.
Given this objective, I think it probably was reasonable to recommend a risk-based 
investment to Ms P. This offered the possibility of earning a greater return than she might 
have expected to receive on funds kept in a deposit-based savings account.
But Im not persuaded that I have seen enough to fairly say that the MIP reasonably 
reflected a level of risk that matched Ms Ps attitude to risk. Zurich cant show me how it 
assessed Ms Ps attitude to risk or explained risk to her. Bearing in mind the best available 
information I have about the likely make up of the fund recommended under the MIP, I 
think it would have exposed Ms P to more risk than she wanted to take.
There isnt sufficient evidence to show that Ms P understood the level of risk she would be 
exposing her savings to by investing in a fund that looks like it probably would have 
comprised 75% investment in equities, including overseas shares in its asset allocation. 
Although her recorded risk rating of 2 out of 4  or the cautious side of balanced  
suggests Ms P was willing to accept some degree of volatility, its not clear to me that she 
was comfortable risking her money at the level that the investment composition of the 
managed fund did.
On balance, based on what I've seen and been told, I cant fairly make a finding that 
investing in the managed fund within the MIP was a risk that was suitable for Ms P, taking 
into account her financial circumstances and recorded attitude to risk. In terms of risk, 
taking into account her limited investment experience and the indications that she leant 
towards the more conservative/less speculative end of Zurichs risk scale, I think a more 
cautious investment strategy wouldve been suitable for Ms P. I also consider that the life 
cover offered by the policy did not meet an identified need that Ms P had. So, I am not 
satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for her. Zurich needs to take steps to put 
things right.
Putting things right
To compensate Ms P fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Ms Ps investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value 
and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Zurich should pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Portfolio 
NameStatus Benchmark From To Additional 
Interest
Maximum No longer FTSE UK private Date of Date fund 8% simple per Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark. Any withdrawal from the Maximum Investment Plan 
should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms P told Zurich she wanted a balanced approach to investing but chose the more 
cautious option within this approach. So, I think she wanted capital growth with 
some risk to her capital, but not the level of risk represented by the fund Zurich 
recommended to her.
The FTSE UK private investors income total return index, I think achieves that 
aim.
The redress I have proposed would reasonably put Ms P into a position she 
would have been in if the adviser had recommended to her a fund which was 
suitable for her. I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Ms P could have obtained from investments suited to her objective 
and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ps complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd and it now needs to put things right 
as I have described above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
OmbudsmanInvestment 
Plan  
Managed Fundexists investors income 
total return indexInvestment ceased to be 
heldyear on any 
loss from end 
date to the date 
of settlement