DRN-3931969
The complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc incorrectly changed the phone number it held for her, and 
after she complaint it released details of her complaint to a third party.
What happened
Mrs H discovered Bank of Scotland had changed her phone number when she was unable 
to login to her account online. She had to visit a branch before the number could be 
corrected. She was then called by a company that was aware she had made a complaint to 
the bank, she doesnt know how this could be. Mrs H says both these issues are concerning 
and a security breach.
Bank of Scotland accepted the phone number was changed in error by its data quality team. 
It said Mrs H had to go to a branch as the necessary verification level could not be reached 
on the phone. It apologised and paid £20 to cover the cost of Mrs Hs travel. It also paid £40 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience its error had caused. It assured Mrs H her 
account had not been compromised and said it does not use a third-party for its complaint 
handling so it could not explain the call Mrs H received.
Our investigator said Bank of Scotlands response to Mrs Hs complaint was fair. The bank  
also offered to set up a Personal Security Number which would be used to help with identity 
verification going forward but Mrs H declined. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review. She says the bank   
fraudulently changed her information, she does not believe it was a mistake and she is no 
further forward to knowing who at the bank did this. She asked how did the third-party that 
called her know she had complained  she feels there must be a security failing at the bank. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland has explained that Mrs Hs number was changed by its data quality team 
and accepts that this was done in error. I understand Mrs H does not believe this, but I think 
the bank has provided a transparent explanation of what happened. I have seen no evidence 
to support Mrs Hs claim that her number was in fact changed intentionally. I find Bank of 
Scotlands response (the apology and £60 compensation) to this part of Mrs Hs complaint to 
be proportionate and I am not asking it to do anything else.
With regards the call Mrs H received after she complained, the bank has confirmed it does 
not use a third-party to manage its complaints and so cannot offer an explanation. I can see 
this is frustrating for Mrs H but based on the available evidence I cannot fairly conclude Bank 
of Scotland was in any way linked to the call Mrs H received. I say this as it has confirmed 
the third-party Mrs H named is not an organisation it has any dealings with. And whilst Mrs H 
has claimed the bank must have disclosed her information to the third party, she has not 
provided other evidence to support this claim. On balance, based on the available evidence, 
I cannot conclude the call was as a result of any failing on the part of Bank of Scotland.
If Mrs H wishes to report either issue as a data breach she should contact the Information
Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk).
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman