DRN-1936006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy Zurich Assurance Ltd failed to cancel a policy in Mr Ds name in 
2009 and have refused to refund the premiums to Mrs D who was making the monthly 
payments. Zurich said they didnt receive a cancellation request and have covered Mr D in 
good faith whilst continuing to send correspondence to Mr Ds address. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Zurich received a 
change of bank account details in 2009 from Mrs Ds bank. So, it changed the details and 
continued to take the monthly premiums in line with the instructions it received. If Mrs D 
didnt think these were the correct instructions, then she should raise this with her bank. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr D said 
he didnt need the plan and Zurich only got his change of address because it provides his 
pension. Mrs D said she didnt notice the monthly premiums being taken from her account 
until she reviewed her finances. She didnt think it was fair for Zurich to take the premiums 
from her for such a long time when she wasnt the beneficiary of the policy because they 
both felt the policy shouldve been cancelled in 2009. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In order to ask Zurich to refund the money I need to be satisfied it did something wrong by 
continuing to take the money from Mrs Ds account for Mr Ds policy. 
I note Zurich received instructions from Mrs Ds bank to continue taking the monthly direct 
debit from her account. It set up Mr Ds policy based upon this instruction and continued to 
correspond annually with Mr D (and the IFA details it had on record) making him aware of 
the policy, what he was covered for and how much it would cost every month. Im satisfied 
these letters were clear and sent to Mr D which is what I would expect Zurich to do in the 
circumstances. And I believe its likely that  on balance  some of these letters wouldve 
been received. 
So, Im satisfied that - on balance - if the policy was meant to be cancelled in 2009 the 
monthly premiums shouldve been spotted earlier. And the letters detailing what the policy 
was shouldve reasonably been queried before 2019 if the policy wasnt needed or 
necessary.
So, Im not going to ask Zurich to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman