DRN-4325215
The complaint
Mr M, helped by a representative, complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund 
him for a transaction which he disputed.
What happened
Mr M went to prison in January 2023. The same day he went to prison, his relatives 
cancelled the direct debits on Mr Ms Lloyds account.
On 17 March, there was a £530.90 payment from Mr Ms account. It was coded DEB on the 
statement, showing that it was a debit card payment. The payment went to a car insurance 
business.
On 5 April, the car insurance business credited £253.03 as a bank giro credit.
Mr M complained to Lloyds, saying his direct debits had been cancelled and the £530.90 
payment had been unauthorised. He wanted a refund, saying he was out of pocket by 
£295.87.
Lloyds refused to refund Mr M. It said the payment hadnt been a direct debit, but a debit 
card payment. In its final response, Lloyds told Mr M that if he was disputing the payment, he 
should contact the merchant direct.
Mr M didnt agree. Helped by a representative, he contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said that the payment had been a debit 
card payment, not a direct debit, so the direct debit guarantee, which Mr M had mentioned, 
didnt apply. 
The investigator considered whether or not Mr M had authorised the payment. Mr Ms 
representative had provided a copy of a letter from the car insurance business which said 
that Mr M was in breach of his credit agreement, and the business would recover £530.90 
from the card which Mr M had provided. The investigator asked Mr Ms representative for a 
copy of Mr Ms original agreement with the car insurance business, but this wasnt provided. 
So the investigator concluded it was more than likely that Mr M had provided his card details 
as part of the original agreement with the car insurance business, to be used to collect any 
overdue amounts. She considered Mr M had authorised the payment, and Lloyds didnt have 
to refund Mr M.
Mr M didnt agree. His representative said that the payment might not be a direct debit but it 
was paid as a direct debit so the payment taken by the car insurance firm was unauthorised. 
The representative said Lloyds hadnt explained why it refused to refund an unauthorised 
payment. And the representative said that the investigator hadnt been able to show there 
had been an agreement to allow the car insurance firm to take money from his account 
without his authorisation. Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered whether its more likely than not that Mr M authorised payment to the car 
insurance business.
Mr M hasnt provided a copy of his original agreement with the car insurance business. His 
representative said the investigator hadnt shown there had been an agreement. But it isnt 
correct that the absence of this document means Mr M automatically succeeds in his 
complaint. It often happens that we dont have all the evidence wed ideally like, and when 
that happens, I take my decision on whats most likely to have happened, in the light of the 
available evidence and all the circumstances of the case. 
Ive seen two letters which the car insurance business sent to Mr M. The first, dated 17 
January, said that Mr Ms bank had been in touch to let it know that the direct debit had been 
cancelled, and that this meant Mr M was in breach of the terms and conditions of his Credit 
Agreement with the car insurance business. The letter asked Mr M to get in touch 
straightaway, so the business could continue to collect payments or arrange payment of the 
account. This letter went on to say that it was a notice under section 26E of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and related to Mr Ms default sums.
The second letter which Ive seen from the car insurance business to Mr M was dated 21 
February. This said that Mr M was in breach of his Credit Agreement. It pointed out that it 
had written before, and said Mr M was now in default. It went on to say that it enclosed a 
Default Notice, and an information sheet about default notices. It said If you dont pay 
£530.90 by 7 March 2023, well recover £530.90 on 14 March from your credit/debit card 
[number] which you authorised us to use to collect any overdue amounts.
In the light of this evidence, and in the absence of any contractual paperwork from Mr M to 
counter this, I find that its more likely than not that Mr M authorised the payment. Its most 
likely that he did this by entering into an agreement with the car insurance business, and that 
there was a clause in the original agreement which authorised the business to collect any 
overdue amounts from Mr Ms Lloyds account. This means that Lloyds didnt refuse to refund 
an unauthorised payment, and it doesnt have to refund Mr M, because the payment was 
authorised.
It doesnt make any difference to the outcome that the car insurance business later refunded 
Mr M with £235.03. This was presumably a refund for the remainder of the insurance period 
when Mr M wouldnt be driving.
Finally, Ill deal with the point raised by Mr Ms representative, who has argued that it may 
not have been a direct debit but it was paid as a direct debit. I dont agree with that. The 
disputed payment taken on 14 March wasnt a direct debit. Technically, the payment taken 
was a debit card payment, not a direct debit. And even if the payment had been a direct 
debit - which it wasnt - the direct debit indemnity deals with payment errors, where the direct 
debit originator hasnt challenged the claim. The letters, which Ive referred to above, 
indicate this was a contractual dispute between the consumer and the originator, and the 
direct debit indemnity doesnt deal with contractual disputes between the consumer and the 
originator. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and do not require Lloyds Bank plc to 
refund Mr M.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman