DRN-3081451
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled an 
accidental damage claim under their home insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G noticed their water bill was unusually high. They contacted their water 
company who found a leak in a water pipe on their property. So they made a claim to Aviva 
as they were covered for accidental damage to pipes.
Aviva appointed a supplier who investigated and repaired the section of pipe with the leak. 
Shortly afterwards there was another leak. Aviva said it wouldnt repair that as their lead 
pipes were suffering from wear and tear which wasnt covered by their policy.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Aviva that theyd paid an excess of £100 in respect of the 
claim, lost their no claims bonus and still had to pay to complete the repairs. Aviva 
apologised for not making this clear to Mr and Mrs G in advance and paid them £25 
compensation in respect of this.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. 
As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy covers them for accidental damage to pipes they are legally 
responsible for. Accidental damage is defined as Damage caused suddenly and 
unexpectedly by an outside force. The first leak in this case does appear to have been 
sudden and unexpected  there was nothing to indicate a problem until Mr and Mrs Gs 
water bill increased and their water company discovered a leak. I think it was fair of Aviva to 
accept the claim for the first leak.
Old lead water pipes corrode over time which in turn leads to leaks. Avivas supplier 
explained to Mr and Mrs G why a second leak had appeared:
It is a fact that a water leak on your system will act as a pressure release. When a leak has 
been successfully repaired, the overall pressure in the system will be sustained, and in turn 
increased pressure will be put onto the next weakest point. It is common for additional leaks 
to appear after a leak has been repaired.
So I dont think Aviva treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly in refusing to repair the second leak 
and/or replace their pipework as the evidence indicates the pipework was suffering from 
wear and tear rather than accidental damage.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs G were disappointed that after paying the excess due 
under their policy and losing their no claims bonus, they still had to pay to replace their 
water pipes. They think Avivas supplier should have realised that the first leak wasnt 
accidental damage as the leak was around the back of their property where very few people 
needed to go. They say there was no damage to the path above it and there werent any 
trees close by. But I think this conclusion could only be made with the benefit of hindsight. 
Where theres a known leak, I dont usually think it would be fair for an insurer to jump to a 
conclusion about the cause without investigating further. Until its supplier had dug down to 
investigate the first leak, I dont think Aviva could reasonably have been aware that Mr and 
Mrs Gs water pipes were suffering from wear and tear and needed to be replaced. I think 
Avivas treated Mr and Mrs G fairly in paying them £25 compensation. I wont require it to do 
any more than that.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman