DRN-3090127
The complaint
Mr H complains that JD Williams & Company Limited (JD Williams), provided him with an 
increased credit limit on a catalogue shopping account that he could not afford.
What happened
In November 2015 JD Williams approved a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit of 
£200 for Mr H. It then increased that limit five times until it reached £1,250 in September 
2016. In December 2016 JD Williams agreed a payment arrangement with Mr H when he 
ran into difficulties maintaining repayments. I understand the outstanding debt was ultimately 
sold to a third party in 2017. Ive included a table showing the limit increases for ease of 
understanding:
Event Date New limit
Account opened November 2015 £200
1st limit increase February 2016 £300
2nd limit increase February 2016 £500
3rd limit increase April 2016 £700
4th limit increase May 2016 £1,000
5th limit increase September 2016 £1,250
After JD Williams rejected his complaint, Mr H brought the case to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the evidence and thought that JD Williams should not have increased 
Mr Hs credit limit on the fourth and fifth occasions, in May and September 2016 
respectively. JD Williams didnt accept that and asked that the case be passed to an 
Ombudsman for review.
The first three limit increases are no longer in dispute, and this decision wont be dealing 
with them in any detail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
JD Williams is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of these credit limit increases, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient 
checks to ensure that Mr H would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available 
to him in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could 
manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr H needed to be able to meet all his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay JD Williams for the credit limit to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did JD Williams carry out proportionate checks before increasing Mr Hs credit limit in May 
2016 and September 2016?
In its submissions to us, JD Williams set out that before increasing a credit limit, [they] 
carry out an assessment which includes checks with the credit reference agencies and 
also conducts an account review.
As JD Williams has been at pains to strenuously point out, the regulations did not, and do 
not, prescribe the nature of the checks that lenders need to carry out  or the sources of 
evidence that must be pursued. The key thing is that lenders carry out proportionate 
checks: by definition, that must mean that the checks for one customer could look 
significantly different from checks for another. Or that checks in relation to the same 
customer could vary greatly over the time, depending on the circumstances.
So the question for me is, in all the circumstances of this case, and based on what it knew, 
did JD Williams checks go far enough for these increases to render them proportionate? 
The answer is no, for several reasons.
JD Williams highlights that each credit limit increase was only small. This is true in 
monetary terms, as they ranged from £100 to £300. However, the increases do not exist in 
a vacuum, in isolation. They are the contingent parts of a lending relationship between Mr 
H and JD Williams. By the time of the fourth increase in May 2016, Mr Hs limit had gone 
from £200 to £1,000 in the space of six months. That is clearly significant and Mr Hs 
potentially liability had risen dramatically in a short time.
It would appear that JD Williams never asked Mr H about his income. Or if it did, it never 
recorded that information. It was not required to do so, of course. And I accept that it is not 
always necessary, for example, when granting a low credit limit. But the difference 
between its initial lending decision of £200 and one six months later to give a total of 
£1,000 is, in my view, substantial. A proportionate check therefore, ought to have been 
more thorough. Without understanding what Mr Hs income was, JD Williams couldnt have 
formed any reasonable conclusions about what he could realistically afford to borrow. This 
was particularly relevant when it began to consider granting him more significant amounts 
of credit. 
In March 2016 Mr H fell into an admittedly very small amount of arrears on the account. 
Whilst on its own this fact may not signify much, it is also not something which can be 
automatically discounted as irrelevant to the question of what checks were needed to be 
proportionate. In June and August 2016, he accrued more substantial arrears, albeit still 
fairly small. However, there were clear flags of potential financial difficulties, which 
undermine JD Williams choice to rely on an account review when making lending 
decisions.
So, all of these issues together ought to have led JD Williams to carry out further checks 
when choosing to increase Mr Hs borrowing to the significant levels (comparative to the 
initial credit limit it approved) involved in these decisions.What would JD Williams have found had it done proportionate checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of many months of 
bank statements to review. As already discussed and acknowledged, there is no 
requirement on a lender to obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted to 
source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so JD Williams 
could have opted to gather more information about Mr Hs financial position in a range of 
ways. However, it didnt, and, in the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely 
on the statements to demonstrate what JD Williams would most likely have discovered if it 
had completed proportionate checks.
The relevant statements show that Mr H was struggling financially and was dependent on 
borrowing just to survive. Of key concern are the following:
Substantial borrowing from high cost short term lenders in a seeming attempt to 
stay in credit on the account.
Despite that, unauthorised overdraft charges.
Returned direct debits.
Almost all of Mr Hs income going to repay high cost lending.
As Ive explained, needing to borrow to meet repayments means that any new lending is 
not sustainable for the customer. At the time of these credit increases in May and 
September 2016, proportionate checks are likely to have shown JD Williams that Mr H 
could not afford to have that level of potential borrowing. What he ultimately did buy, and 
therefore borrow, is not relevant to the fact that the increases should not have been given. 
It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr H, JD Williams must do the following:
Rework the account to remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) 
incurred on the account since 23 May 2016 on balances exceeding £700.
If after the rework the balance would have been cleared, JD Williams must refund 
any overpayments to Mr H with 8% simple interest per year*, calculated from the 
date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
If this rework means that Mr H owes no more money, JD Williams must remove 
adverse information about this account from 23 May 2016 onwards from Mr Hs credit 
file.
If after the adjustment an outstanding balance remains, JD Williams must try to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. This may involve JD Williams 
repurchasing the debt from a third party, or liaising with that third party to ensure the 
above steps are undertaken. Once the balance has been fully cleared, any adverse 
information about the account should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.*HM Revenue and Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct JD Williams Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman