DRN-1915378
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold a packaged bank account called an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) by Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mrs C took out an URCA in July 2012 which incurred a monthly fee of £15. Mrs C says she 
took out the URCA because Bank of Scotland told her it was the only way she could 
increase her overdraft, but she says it was not suitable for her.
Our adjudicator investigated Mrs Cs complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland didnt mis-
sell the URCA. Mrs C disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking about whether Mrs C was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee 
free bank account with Bank of Scotland for many years and the fee free account shed had 
continued to be available after 2012. Also fee free accounts were widely available and 
advertised by Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial institutions. 
So, I think Mrs C was aware she had a choice and chose to take out and pay for the URCA.
Mrs C says that Bank of Scotland recommended the URCA to her and advised her to take it 
out. She says that if she had been advised properly and given correct information, she 
wouldnt have taken it out. Bank of Scotland says it didnt advise Mrs C to take out the policy 
and it says it did give her correct information. 
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of her needs or circumstances to show 
that Bank of Scotland did advise Mrs C to take out the URCA. Im sure the substantial 
explanation of the accounts benefits felt to Mrs C as though Bank of Scotland was saying 
the URCA was a good idea. But this is not the same as advising her or making a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of Bank of Scotlands sales in this 
period, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mrs C on an 
information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland didnt need to check if the URCA was suitable for Mrs C, it only needed 
to provide her with enough information about it to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone insurance. And it offered better 
overdraft facilities than a current account including a fee free overdraft of up to £300. 
I dont know exactly what Bank of Scotland said or what information it gave Mrs C about the 
URCA. But I think its likely Bank of Scotland wouldve described the URCA to her at some 
length as it was trying to sell the account to her. And I think the URCA would have been of 
interest to Mrs C. 
I say this because Ive seen evidence that she had a car, a mobile phone and she travelled 
up to three times a year. She also had a substantial overdraft at the time of sale. And Bank 
of Scotland has provided evidence that she registered for the mobile phone cover at the time 
of the sale. 
Mrs C specifically complains that she was told that she needed to take out an URCA to 
increase her borrowing. But there is no evidence that she either increased her overdraft limit 
or took out a loan following the URCA sale. So, I think its more likely than not she didnt take 
out the URCA for that reason. 
So, in my view I think Mrs C knew she had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not 
and she chose to do so. I think the URCA was of interest to her and there was no 
information that Mrs C didnt receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put her off 
taking it out. So, I dont think Mrs C lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may 
have done wrong when it sold her the URCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman