DRN-3842784
The complaint
Ms P and Ms R are unhappy with Ageas Retail Limiteds handling (ARL) of their policy 
renewal, and how it provided information to them.
What happened
Ms P and Ms R held a buildings insurance policy. ARL acted as the broker when the policy 
was taken out in February 2020. They made a claim for a leak in late 2021 which hadnt 
been settled by the time the policy was due to be renewed in February 2022.
 
Ms P and Ms R say there were a number of problems with how ARL handled their policy. 
There were repeated issues with the wrong paperwork being sent, they werent made aware 
of changes to the trace and access part of their policy and that they were told to look online 
for changes to policy terms when they preferred documentation to be sent by post. Ms P and 
Ms R also say they had difficulties contacting ARL by telephone and emails werent 
responded to. They chose not to renew the policy in February 2022 and made a complaint 
about how things had been handled.
ARL issued its final response in May 2022. It said when the policy was up for renewal in 
February 2021, there was no reference to damage regarding trace and access claims in the 
policy wording. ARL said the underwriter confirmed their claim had correctly been declined, 
but ARL paid £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with ARLs response, Ms P and Ms R referred their complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt think ARL had done anything wrong. She 
said she hadnt seen any unanswered emails sent to ARL and she thought the £50 was 
sufficient compensation for the wrong policy paperwork being sent out. As Ms P and Ms R 
didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision doesnt focus on the outcome of the claim, which has been considered under a 
separate complaint against the underwriter. 
Ive started by considering the comments made about the difficulties Ms P and Ms R had 
communicating with ARL. In support of this, theyve forwarded on a number of emails. But 
these emails have been sent to both ARL and to the underwriter. And there are a number of 
similarities between the name of ARL and underwriter for the policy. So, in the context of this 
decision, Ive only considered the emails sent directly to ARL. 
Ill turn now to Ms P and Ms Rs comments about the information given to them about their 
trace and access cover. I can see theyve been sent various copies of policy terms which set 
out the level of trace and access cover offered under the policy. Ive looked back at the 
emails Ive seen from ARL, but I cant see any of these said there wasnt any cover for trace 
and access. Thats not to say Ms P and Ms R werent told they didnt have cover  I fully 
accept they may have been given some incorrect information. But I cant see in the evidence 
thats been provided, ARL gave the incorrect information. And Im satisfied they were 
provided the paperwork which confirmed they did have cover. 
I can see Ms P and Ms R say they wanted the policy documents sent to them by post. It 
looks like the request for these was sent to both ARL and the underwriter. I say this as Ive 
seen emails from the underwriter stating theyll ask ARL to send the documents. ARL says it 
usually stores documents online, but this wasnt Ms P and Ms Rs preferred format. I can see 
from the contact notes provided it sent copies of the policy documents to Ms P and Ms R 
when they were asked for. 
I can see this has been a difficult situation for Ms P and Ms R, and Im sorry to see the 
impact this had on them. However, I dont agree ARL needs to do more. There have been 
occasions where it could have been clearer about its involvement and the role of the 
underwriter. But I think the payment already made in respect of this is appropriate in the 
circumstances, and for what Ms P and Ms R consider to be the poor service they received. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman