DRN-2526127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined part of their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. In April 2019 they 
booked a trip. At the outset, their intended departure and return dates were 
27 February 2020 and 31 March 2020 respectively. The trip had multiple destinations 
and included a cruise. 
Mr and Mrs T say that their trip proceeded as planned until 8 March 2020 but was then 
disrupted due to covid-19 when the cruise provider refused them boarding. Mr and Mrs T 
revised their itinerary. Their plans were disrupted again when on 15 March 2020, the 
government of one of Mr and Mrs Ts destinations introduced mandatory self-isolation for 
14 days for anyone arriving in that country and later announced that it was closing its 
borders to all non-citizens and non-residents with effect from 20 March 2020. On           
23 March 2020 the Foreign Secretary advised all UK tourists to return home.
Mr and Mrs T booked return flights departing 24 March 2020 but were unable to board 
the flight because of the airlines requirements. They hired a car and an apartment. It 
was difficult to arrange return flights home. Mr and Mrs T managed to book a flight 
departing 10 April 2020 and returned home on 11 April 2020. 
Mr and Mrs Ts travel provider refunded unused elements of their trip, including the 
unused return flights and the additional flights they booked but couldnt use on               
24 March 2020. Mr and Mrs T claimed against their travel policy in relation to additional 
accommodation and car hire costs and their repatriation flights. 
Aviva paid the part of the Mr and Mrs Ts claim in relation to additional accommodation 
and car hire costs. It declined the part of Mr and Mrs Ts claim in relation to their 
repatriation flights. It said that as the amount refunded by Mr and Mrs Ts travel provider 
was more than the cost of their repatriation flights, it couldnt consider that part of their 
claim. It relied on a special condition in the policy, which Ill refer to in more detail below. 
Mr and Mrs T say that Aviva should pay them £1,811.65, which is the difference between 
the cost of their repatriation flights (£3,535.65) and the flights they booked on                
24 March 2020 (£1,724).
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Aviva hadnt 
treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly in declining part of their claim. The investigator noted that 
Mr and Mrs Ts travel provider had refunded the unused costs of both the original return 
flights and the flights for 24 March 2020. She said that Mr and Mrs T werent out of 
pocket, as theyd always have to pay for return flights home. The investigator said that  
as the cost of Mr and Mrs Ts repatriation flights was less than their unused return flights, 
Aviva was right to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. Mr T responded in some detail, which I 
wont set out here. Essentially, Mr T said that they were forced to pay a premium for their 
economy repatriation flights because of the crisis caused by covid-19 and he believes 
that Aviva should bear that cost of that. 
Mr T said that Aviva shouldnt take into account his original return flight because it 
initially declined his entire claim in error and their original return flights were business 
class, not economy. He said that Aviva should only consider flights of a similar standard 
that theyd booked for their trip, as indicated in the policy. 
Mr T reiterated that hes out of pocket by the difference between the cost of their 
repatriation flights and the cost of the unused flights of 24 March 2020. Mr T said that 
theyd been deprived of the business class experience on their return flight. 
The investigator considered what Mr T said but didnt change her view. Mr T asked that 
an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this was a very worrying time for Mr and Mrs T. Its clear and quite 
understandable that Mr T in particular has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive considered carefully. 
However, I trust that neither he nor Mrs T will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on 
what I consider the central issue, that is, whether Aviva treated them unfairly in declining part 
of their claim.   
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. Aviva has dealt with 
Mr and Mrs Ts claim under the cancellation or curtailment provisions, the relevant parts of 
which are as follows: 
Cancelling or coming home early
If you unavoidably have to cancel your trip or come home early, we will pay for the 
following: 
Non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to pay for 
their own unused personal travel and/or accommodation. This also includes the cost 
of pre-paid excursions and green fees;
and/or 
Additional travel costs (if you cannot use your return ticket), and/or accommodation 
costs (of a similar standard you had booked for your trip) necessary to allow you to 
come home early.The most we will pay for each insured person is:
£10,000 for personal travel and accommodation costs; []
If one of the following occurs:
[]
8. You are prevented from travelling within 31 days of your scheduled departure date or 
have to come home early because:
[]
(b) a Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against all travel 
or all but essential travel to your destination or the FCO are advising British citizens to leave 
the area in which you are staying. 
[]
Special Conditions
[]
(e) If you cannot use  your return ticket and we pay additional travel costs to allow you to 
come home early, your unused travel ticket will then belong to us.
[]
What is not covered
[]
(c) Any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from your credit/debit card provider or 
which you receive or are expected to receive compensation or reimbursement (sic).
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated them 
unfairly in declining the part of their claim relating to the costs of their repatriation flights. Ill 
explain why:
Mr and Mrs Ts policy doesnt cover them for every loss they might incur. The policy 
doesnt provide cover for the loss of the experience and benefit of a business class 
flight or the cost of inflated flight costs as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. 
In the circumstances that arose here, Mr and Mrs Ts policy provides for additional 
travel costs necessary to allow them to return home. The cost of their repatriation 
flights was £3,535.65, which was less than the cost of their original flights home, so 
there are no additional travel costs here. The original flight costs have been refunded 
by Mr and Mrs Ts travel provider. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ts original return flights were business class and their 
repatriation flights were economy, but as Ive said, the policy doesnt cover the loss of 
the experience and benefit of business class flights. And Aviva isnt responsible for 
what Mr and Mrs T consider to be the inflated price of their repatriation flights. 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy covers additional costs of a similar standard that they had 
booked originally. Mr and Mrs T say that they didnt book business class repatriation 
flights as they thought that the costs were inflated. That doesnt alter the outcome 
here, as Aviva dealt with the claim as presented to them, not the claim that              
Mr and Mrs T might have made if they had booked business class repatriation flights. 
In any event, Aviva would only pay a claim up to the policy limit. I dont think it was helpful for Aviva to refer to the special condition (e), which Ive set 
out above. That special condition refers to what happens if Aviva pays additional 
travel costs for early repatriation but thats not what happened in this case, as Mr and 
Mrs T paid for the repatriation flights. 
The cost of the unused flights booked for 24 March 2020 dont form part of              
Mr and Mrs Ts valid claim, as theyve been refunded by their travel provider. Theres 
no basis on which to direct Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between the 
cost of their repatriation flights and the cost of the flights booked for 24 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy only covers cost which they cant recover from elsewhere. 
Thats why Aviva initially referred Mr and Mrs T to their travel provider. But Aviva 
didnt consider the claim appropriately at first, as it failed to notice that parts of the 
claim couldnt be recovered from elsewhere. Its response was confusing. Aviva has 
already apologised for that and I dont propose to direct it to do any more. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman