DRN-2296107
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc paid half the early repayment charge 
(ERC) refund to his ex-partner when he took out a new mortgage after theyd sold their joint 
home redeeming the original NatWest mortgage.
What happened
Mr C had a mortgage with his now ex-partner. The mortgage was redeemed when the house 
was sold in July 2019 and they incurred an ERC of £5,250.79.
Mr C found a new house to buy with his new partner, and as the new mortgage was taken 
out (in October 2019) soon after the original one had been repaid the ERC was refundable.
On 22 November 2019 Mr C sent a message to his ex-partner saying his new mortgage had 
completed and hed been told NatWest might reimburse the ERC paid on the old mortgage. 
His ex-partner queried whether that refund was to both of them, or just to Mr C. To which he 
replied:
I think we are both entitled to some, even though I didnt fully agree with that. I will find out 
the sum and give you some.! 
I dont fully know if they take it off the mortgage or give cash back. We had to pay around 
5k to get out so really hoping they mean the whole lot. ( somehow doubt it though) 
If it was true you, I will give you 500- 1000?
The following day Mr C sent a further message to his ex-partner:
I rang again yesterday avo, and someone said 5,200. Which I was very surprised about.!
I will send a letter to them for authority to proceed.! 
I will transfer the 1000 to you after
Mr Cs ex-partner said shed rather the refund was split 70/30 (in Mr Cs favour) as that was 
how theyd split all the other house proceeds, to which Mr C said:
The mortgage I took wasnt the cheapest at the time, I went with them to try and get this 
back.! So its costing me more per month.
I took away the difference in cost then split 70/30 and that is 1020?
I was trying to be fair already, if I didnt find out about this we would never of got anything. 
They didnt offer it, I approached them after looking into it.!!!
1020 is as high as I want to go really.
Mr Cs ex-partner said she didnt want to argue about it and hadnt battled the 70/30 split for 
the house proceeds. She said shed accept £1,020 from the ERC refund.
On 29 November 2019 NatWest had a conversation with Mr Cs ex-partner as it had 
received an unsigned letter purporting to be from her saying that the full refund should be 
paid to Mr C and they will sort it out between themselves. Its seems clear from the 
messages Mr C has sent us between him and his ex-partner that he wrote the letter without 
her consent, with Mr Cs ex-partner saying:
The lady just rang me and said you havent signed your letter! I didnt want any trouble so I 
said youd written on my behalf (which I didnt know you were doing)?
I cant go into any further details about the contact between NatWest and the ex-partner as 
she isnt a party to this complaint so I have no authority (from her) to do so. All I can say, as 
Mr C is aware, is that the outcome of that call was that the ERC refund was paid out on a 
50/50 basis, with Mr C receiving £2,625.40 and his ex-partner receiving £2,625.39.
Mr C complained to NatWest. NatWest said it could have handled things better and given 
Mr C a clearer explanation of the ERC refund policy. It paid him £250 compensation, and 
offered  as a gesture of goodwill  to cover any reasonable costs Mr C would incur if he 
were to instruct a solicitor to write to his ex-partner to request the balance. Following that 
NatWest paid £820.80 which Mr C evidenced hed paid a solicitor in this matter.
Our investigator felt NatWests offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr C has said his new mortgage is £30-£40 more expensive each month, and he wouldnt 
have signed up to that if hed known what would happen with the ERC. Mr C took a rate that 
was fixed for around five years, so at his upper estimate of £40 a month, that equates to 
£2,400 over the life of the fixed rate. The ERC refund Mr C received (which he wouldnt have 
received if hed taken a cheaper mortgage elsewhere) was £2,625.40. So even after 
receiving only half the ERC Mr C is still £225.40 better off by taking the NatWest mortgage 
when ERC is compared with the monthly savings Mr C says he could have obtained 
elsewhere.
Mr C has said:
When all this started Natwest told me she would not get any money at all, now she has 
£2600 and she agreed to £1020.
I cant consider what Mr Cs ex-partner received as shes not a party to this complaint. All I 
can consider is whether Mr C has received the right amount. So it doesnt form part of my 
considerations whether she originally didnt know about the refund, or that she said shed 
accept Mr Cs offer of £1,020.
Mr Cs ex-partner was an equal party to the original mortgage. What happened personally 
between them and who actually paid what wasnt NatWests concern. All it had was a 
mortgage with two borrowers who were jointly and severally liable. Any refund due on that 
mortgage  whether that be the ERC or anything else  would always, by default, be split 
50/50. Thats only right. If the two borrowers came to any separate arrangement, they were both in agreement to, then thats up to them. But it would be highly inappropriate for NatWest 
to get involved in that.
Mr C told NatWest what hed got his ex-partner to agree to (and wrote a letter purporting to 
be from her). But when NatWest spoke to Mr Cs ex-partner directly that wasnt what was 
agreed. As I said, I cant go into any detail about that as she isnt a party to this complaint. 
NatWest could only pay the refund in a percentage other than 50/50 if it was satisfied both 
parties agreed with that. As it wasnt satisfied that was the case then it had to pay half to 
Mr Cs ex-partner.
As far as NatWest is concerned, it correctly issued Mr C with half the ERC refund and thats 
all I can consider here. Mr C has asked why NatWest offered to cover his solicitor costs if it 
didnt feel it was at fault. To explain, NatWest did that as a gesture of goodwill to try to help 
Mr C. I cant find fault with that as it was good customer service, and not something NatWest 
needed to do. Its not something I would have ordered NatWest to do, but Im pleased it put 
that offer forward to try to help Mr C.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Mr Cs ex-partner didnt agree that Mr C should 
receive all - or a higher percentage of - the refund. For that reason, Im satisfied NatWest did 
nothing wrong when it gave each party half the refund due. NatWest has said its 
communication could have been better, and for that Im satisfied the £250 compensation it 
has already paid is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider National Westminster Bank Plc made a 
fair offer in its response to the complaint. That amount has already been paid and so I make 
no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman