DRN-3146016
The complaint
Mr R complains that Equifax Limited didnt update his credit file as requested. Mr R says this 
had a negative impact on his personal well-being.
What happened
Mr R contacted Equifax in October 2020 to say that an account he held with a business I will 
refer to as H was linked to his previous address. Equifax raised a query on Mr Rs behalf. H 
said Equifax should tell Mr R to update his address with the bank so that Equifax could 
amend his credit file.
Mr R contacted Equifax in November 2020 to say hed already given H his new address and 
was receiving statements. Equifax took matters up with H. It told Equifax that Mr R would 
need to raise a dispute with H before it could make any amendments.
Mr R complained to Equifax in December 2020. After it investigated his complaint, Equifax 
agreed that it had made a mistake. It updated Mr Rs credit file and offered £150 
compensation.
Mr R doesnt think that Equifaxs offer reflects the impact the mistake has had on him. Mr R 
says he didnt want to apply for a mortgage until his address had been updated as he knew 
H would ask Equifax for a credit report. During this time there was a change in the purchase 
prices limit under the Governments Help to Buy scheme that Mr R hoped to use to buy a 
house. Mr R says this will have a lasting impact on his quality of life. Mr R considers that 
Equifax should pay him nearer £2,000 compensation.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Equifax raised disputes with H on Mr Rs behalf. Although there may have been a technical 
error on the part of Equifax, the investigator thought that Equifax updated its records after H 
told it to. The investigator thought Equifaxs offer of £150 was fair. He explained that as Mr R 
didnt apply for a mortgage, this service couldnt compensate him for something that mightve 
happened but didnt.
Mr R was unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He gave this service an email 
from H which referred to a declined loan application. Mr R says H took account of his 
Equifax credit score.
Mr R is unhappy with the length of time that it took for Equifax to investigate his complaint. 
He considers the cost of an Equifax membership was unnecessary. Mr R thinks that hes 
being penalised for being cautious about applying for a mortgage when he knew the 
personal loan had been declined.
As the original investigator had left this service, a second investigator looked at Mr Rs 
concerns. In summary, she didnt think that Equifax had made a mistake.
Mr R disagrees with the second investigator. He points out that Equifax admitted it had made 
a technical error. Mr R says that H had the correct address for him since February 2020, so 
Equifax shouldve been reporting this from May 2020 at the very latest.
Mr R says that H told him that his credit score was the only reason why it declined his loan 
application.
Mr R says that recent credit applications have been successful since he corrected his credit 
file with another credit reference agency (CRA). Mr R comments that it was much easier to 
get the other CRA to update his credit file than it was Equifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to the key issues. The rules that 
govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. 
I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling about the problems that hes faced trying to sort 
everything out with Equifax. Mistakes in the reporting and recording of credit information can 
happen. When they do, I look to whether the CRA involved  in this case Equifax  has 
taken appropriate action to put things right. 
I appreciate that Mr R was stuck in the middle of Equifax and H through no fault of his own. 
But Equifax is reliant on the data it receives from lenders and cant usually change that data 
unless the lender instructs it to. H was telling Equifax that Mr R would need to raise a dispute 
with H before any amendments could be made. This effectively left Equifax unable to update 
Mr Rs address.
It appears that much of the problem stems from fact that Mr Rs address recorded with 
Equifax has the word Flat before the number. But H left out the word Flat and just started 
with the number of Mr Rs property. The Royal Mails postcode checker displays Mr Rs 
address as starting with Flat. So, it appears that the error was due to H and not Equifax. 
As far as H was concerned it was reporting Mr Rs address correctly. But it didnt match the 
address held by Equifax. However, as soon as H confirmed to Equifax in early January 2021 
that it was reporting Mr Rs address as starting with a number, Equifax manually amended 
the record to move it to Mr Rs current address starting with Flat. 
Although there was a delay between Mr R raising his concerns in October 2020 and Equifax 
resolving the problem in early 2021, Im not persuaded that much of this was down to 
Equifax. And Im satisfied that Equifax took reasonable steps to help Mr R by raising 
disputes with H.
I appreciate Mr R wants Equifax to pay him substantially more compensation than it has 
offered so far but I dont think that its justified. I dont want to appear to downplay Mr Rs 
upset at not feeling able to apply for a mortgage when he would have liked to. But it was his 
choice to wait rather than apply and see what happened. 
As the investigator told Mr R, I cant reasonably award compensation for something that 
didnt happen. And from what I gather about the Right to Buy scheme, the regional price 
caps were introduced from April 2021 by which time Equifax had amended Mr Rs credit file.I also cant see that Mr R told Equifax about the problem with the mortgage until after he 
complained in December 2020. So, Equifax wasnt made aware of the urgency of the 
situation as far as Mr Rs wish to get a mortgage was concerned. 
Ive considered what H told Mr R about the loan application he made on 1 October 2020.  H 
said it considered three broad areas; the information Mr R gave in his application, the way 
he managed his accounts with H and information from the CRA. I cant see anything in this 
which indicates that Mr Rs application was declined due to Equifax not updating his 
address. I also note that Mr R made his loan application to H before hed told Equifax about 
the problem with his address. So, any delay there may have been on Equifaxs part when 
updating his address, didnt impact on Hs decision to lend. 
H recommended to Mr R that he wait three months from the date of his loan application 
before making a further credit application. This wouldve taken Mr R to early January 2021 
by which time Equifax had amended his credit file. It seems likely to me that if Mr R had 
made an unsuccessful mortgage application to H in the meantime, it wouldnt have been 
because Equifax hadnt updated his address but because less than three months had 
passed since H declined his loan application.  
Im glad to hear that Mr Rs situation has since improved and hes successfully applied for 
credit, including a mortgage. But for all the reasons Ive outlined above, this doesnt change 
my decision that Equifaxs offer is fair. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr R.
My final decision
Equifax Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Equifax Limited should pay Mr R 
£150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman