DRN-1203377
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1998 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Miss S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 21 years later. I say 
this because in order to get cover, Miss S had to tick for it on the application form. The 
application shows that Miss S ticked for this cover, and Miss S signed the application form 
which denotes her agreement with its contents. Ive noted that theres no language on any 
documentary evidence that suggests the credit is dependent on taking out PPI.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Miss S about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I think its likely Miss S would have had some understanding that it would pay a 
benefit if she wasnt able to work because she was sick or became unemployed. And as I 
think Miss S chose to take out the PPI, it seems like she was interested in this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ss circumstances at the time it seems that she was eligible 
for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. 
And it appears that Miss S would have benefitted from the cover. I say this because Miss S 
told us that whilst she had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six months. 
Having the PPI would mean the policy would pay out for longer than her employer would pay 
her sick pay at her full rate of pay and it would reduce her reliance on any help her family may have been in a position to offer her to repay the store card. So I think the PPI could be 
useful for her.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Miss S off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman