DRN-2232879
The complaint
The representatives of the estate of Mr K complain that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited 
failed to find any information about the late Mr Ks bond and they believe it should pay the 
proceeds to the estate.
What happened
Mr Ks estates representatives found the original policy document paperwork showing he 
took out the bond in 1977.
Sanlam said it had no paperwork relating to Mr K or this bond. Given its current 
documentation went back to 1996, this indicated Mr K must have encashed it before this 
date.
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to indicate the bond 
was still in existence. She noted that Sanlam had explained that investors could cash in 
these bonds without returning the original policy document and so the existence of this 
document didnt indicate it still held value. She also said that businesses were not required 
to keep any paperwork for more than six years after a product had been surrendered or 
expired. She therefore did not believe there was sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint.
 Mr Ks estates representatives did not agree, and said:
Sanlam inherited this portfolio of investments in 2003, before which they had passed 
through various businesses  so it is quite likely that the policy information was lost at 
some stage
If this happened, Mr K would not have received any further paperwork about the 
bond
Sanlam has not provided any detailed evidence of what actions it took to try and find 
this policy, despite this issue taking more than a year to be dealt with
The policy was neatly filed along with the rest of Mr Ks investments; he clearly 
expected the proceeds to be paid to his beneficiaries after his death
It is more likely than not that this bond was never encashed
The investigator simply accepted Sanlams unsupported evidence; the so-called 
burden of proof she required does not result in a fair outcome
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
My role is to decide if there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to safely conclude that a 
business clearly did something wrong. There is not such persuasive evidence that the late 
Mr Ks bond was never encashed.
As the investigator explained, businesses are not required to retain documentation from old 
bank accounts, investments or other financial products for more than six years after they 
cease. Indeed, under data-protection regulations they are encouraged to dispose of such 
files. 
So I do not agree there is anything suspicious about Sanlam not having documentation 
relating to a bond taken out more than 40 years. I am satisfied that it is more likely than not 
that this means the bond was encashed at some point; in practice, probably before Sanlam 
inherited this product.
In my experience, it is not unusual for people to meticulously retain all the paperwork relating 
to their historic bank accounts, investments and so on. There are often very good reasons 
for this even where an account has been closed or an investment surrendered.
It is also therefore quite common for beneficiaries to discover documentation relating to 
redundant policies and plans. This issue commonly arises with old insurance policies which 
lapsed many years previously.
So I do not find it surprising that Mr K kept a file copy of a bond he may have encashed 
many years earlier.
That said, my task to decide whether there is sufficient evidence to fairly conclude that the 
bond was never encashed and should therefore be paid out. So, it does come down to a 
burden of proof issue and thats why I cannot uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman