DRN-4279435
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the length of time it took, and the service she received, when she tried 
to make a payment from the current account she holds with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In May of this year, Mrs J tried to make a large payment from her account to her 
solicitors for a house deposit. The payment was blocked and it took almost three hours, 
and numerous conversations with various individuals at the bank, before the payment 
was released. Her solicitors had closed for the weekend by that point and so the 
payment couldnt be passed on to the property owners until the following Monday. Mrs J 
says she suffered emotional distress and anxiety during her contact with the bank, and 
over the weekend, worrying that the house purchase would fall through.
Santander accepted that it had taken longer than would usually be expected to complete 
the payment. And the service Mrs J received fell below its usual standards. This included 
being passed around various departments incorrectly, systems issues causing delays, 
call-backs not being made and a general lack of information about what was going on. It 
apologised and paid £100 compensation into Mrs Js account to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its failings. Mrs J thought the banks offer was too low, so 
referred a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted inappropriately in blocking Mrs Js 
payment but agreed that the service it subsequently provided fell short. They didnt 
recommend that Santander should increase the compensation award. Mrs J disagreed 
so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the award of compensation already made 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I do appreciate that it took almost three hours for the payment to be completed and normal 
business hours had ended by the time the money got to Mrs Js solicitor. Also that Mrs J was 
unnecessarily passed around various members of staff. But I dont think the bank was 
deliberately trying to make things difficult or be unhelpful. Sometimes things go wrong and 
Im pleased to see the bank accepted and apologised for this.
I appreciate Mrs J may have been caused some worry by the delay and poor service, but it 
seems clear that the house purchase did go ahead (Mrs J managed to make a further 
payment to the solicitor a few days later). 
Ive also borne in mind the possibility that Mrs J could have made the payment earlier in the 
day. It looks like she received a large amount of money into her current account a little over 
a week before which she transferred into her savings and then a portion of this was 
transferred back into her current account in order to make the payment which led to this 
complaint.
I dont think it was wrong of the bank to block the payment given the sum involved and its 
just unfortunate the matter wasnt resolved as promptly and smoothly as I would usually 
expect.
In all the circumstances, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs J, I 
find £100 to be fair compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman