DRN-2969413
The complaint
Miss S complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) unfairly closed her bank 
account. 
What happened
Miss S says she transferred her main banking from her previous bankers to M&S, where she 
had held an inactive bank account for some time. Miss S says she arranged this following an 
incident with her previous bank. Miss S says several months later she received a letter from 
M&S informing her they had decided to close her bank account without giving any reason. 
Miss S says after making enquiries with M&S she was led to understand the reason for her 
bank account closure was because M&S had been informed of the incident with her previous 
bank. Miss S then asked M&S to allow an extension to the closure date as she was 
arranging to re-open her bank account with her previous bank and needed more time, but 
this was refused. Miss S says this resulted in her transferring her bank balance to her 
mothers bank account and direct debits not being paid, causing her considerable 
inconvenience. Miss S says M&S have breached her data and caused her inconvenience by 
incorrectly closing her bank account. She wants her account re-opened, compensation paid, 
along with an apology and an explanation from M&S why it was closed and any 
misinformation on her bank file corrected.  
M&S says they gave Miss S sufficient notice to close her bank account and under the terms 
and conditions of the account they do not need to give a reason for doing this. 
Miss S wasnt happy with M&Ss response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available evidence but didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
She felt that M&S had acted fairly when giving Miss S notice to close her bank account. The 
investigator didnt feel M&S had any obligation to extend the closure date to accommodate 
the switch to her previous bank. In addition, the investigator says M&S didnt need to 
disclose the reason for closing her bank account. The investigator also pointed out that M&S 
and her previous bank were part of the same banking group and as such, they were entitled 
to share certain information and hadnt breached any data rules.
Miss S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I have come to a similar outcome as the investigator, further steps are 
needed to be taken by M&S here, and I will explain how I have come to my decision.
I can see it would have been upsetting for Miss S to learn her bank account was to be closed 
without any reason given. I also understand it would have been frustrating for Miss S when 
she was told M&S werent willing to extend the date set to close her bank account with them. 
When looking at this complaint I will be considering only the actions that M&S took and not 
that of her previous bankers, as Miss Ss complaint is directed at M&S. 
When making a full and impartial decision here, I will consider if M&S acted unfairly when 
closing her bank account, refusing to extend the date of its closure and if M&S breached any 
data protection rules.
Miss S has raised various issues concerning M&Ss decision to close her bank account and 
has suggested that their reason for doing this was based on discussions it had with her 
previous bankers and therefore this is a breach of her data. 
As the investigator has pointed out, while we cant comment on the actions her previous 
bank had taken, as this complaint concerns the actions of M&S, its fair to say that they are 
part of the same banking group and as such are able to share certain information when 
assessing any risks associated with providing banking services to its customers. It follows I 
am satisfied there has not been any data breach, even in Miss S thinks there was. 
Miss Ss main complaint centres around M&Ss decision to close her bank account and their 
refusal to extend the date they gave her to make alternative banking arrangements and the 
problems this caused her. Miss S believes M&Ss reason for closing the account is based on 
misinformation provided by her previous bank. While I understand the point Miss S makes 
here, the fact is M&S do not need to provide a reason for closing her bank account, 
providing they give sufficient notification, and I am satisfied this is what happened here.
I say this because I have seen correspondence to show M&S did provide Miss S with 60 
days-notice to close her bank account and this is in line with section 27 of their terms and 
conditions, where it says:
We can also end the agreement and close your accounts by giving you at least two months' 
notice.
Also : You're responsible for cancelling payments into and out of your account.
I can understand that closing Miss Ss bank account would be inconvenient for her and their 
refusal not to extend the date to do this caused her problems, especially with setting up 
direct debit payments with her new bank account. That said, while Miss S may not agree, 
M&S having made their decision to close her bank account had no further obligation to 
extend that date. 
From listening to the telephone conversations Miss S had with them, I cant say M&S told 
Miss S she needed to transfer the balance out of her account when she did, as she 
suggests. From the telephone call provided to this service of the 5th December 2020, a M&S 
member of staff explained the bank account would be closed and direct debits and standing 
orders would be cancelled, and it was Miss Ss decision to transfer her balance to her 
mothers bank account. Having said that, where I differ slightly from the view of the 
investigator here, is on the issue why Miss Ss bank account was allowed to go overdrawn 
following the withdrawal of the account balance. While during the phone call of the 5th 
December 2020, M&Ss member of staff explained there were pending direct debits and 
credits, she also clearly explains to Miss S, after being asked, that any direct debits or 
credits would be returned unpaid following the account closure the next working business 
day. So, while M&S may not agree, I am satisfied Miss S finished that phone call believing 
her bank account would be closed following her withdrawal of the balance that day. 
What actually happened was M&S allowed various direct debits and credits to pass through Miss Ss bank account between the period 7 December 2020 and 23 January 2020 resulting 
in a net overdrawn position of £67.89. Given M&S had told Miss S her bank account must be 
closed, with no extension allowable, which is their right to do, I cant say it was then 
acceptable to allow Miss Ss bank account to go overdrawn, by allowing direct debits to be 
paid when they told her this wouldnt happen. I understand from M&S that this debt hasnt 
been registered with any credit agencies and therefore no adjustments need to be made 
here. From the information I have seen the direct debits paid were regular due payments, so 
by making them Miss S hasnt been financially disadvantaged by this, other than being led to 
believe they were cancelled, which would have created some confusion and inconvenience 
to her. On balance, I am satisfied the correct course of action here is the outstanding 
balance on Miss Ss bank account should be written off by M&S and the bank account 
closed. In addition, M&S should pay £75 to Miss S for the inconvenience caused over the 
confusion regarding the direct debits and credits made to and from her bank account, after 
she believed it had been closed. 
So, while I dont uphold the body of Miss Ss complaint about the closure of her bank 
account, there are actions that M&S need to take to close the bank account as described. 
While both parties may not be fully satisfied with my decision here, I am satisfied this is a fair 
and reasonable way to settle the matter for the reasons I have already given.
Both Miss S and M&S have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Miss S and M&S until 8 September 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Both Miss S and M&S have accepted my provisional decision, and while I see no 
need to change my provisional decision, Miss S wished for some points to be clarified, which 
I will go on to explain here.
As regards to how M&S settle the redress of £75, I will leave it with the investigator to liaise 
with both parties to ensure the monies are paid to the bank account of Miss Ss choice. Miss 
S also wanted to ensure that the closure of her M&S bank account doesnt leave any 
negative impact on her credit file. M&S have already informed this service they have not 
reported this issue to the credit agencies and to be clear M&S should ensure that the closure 
of the bank account doesnt show negatively on Miss Ss credit file. 
Miss S says she is concerned that the initial closure of her previous bank account with 
another provider may impact on her credit file going forward, however, I can only comment 
here on the complaint made against M&S. If Miss S has concerns about this, she must take 
this up directly with her previous (now current ) bankers. As I explained in my provisional 
decision because M&S and her previous bankers are part of the same banking group, they 
are able to disclose certain information between one another. Given her previous bankers 
have taken her back on board as a customer I cant see any evidence to show any adverse 
information has been recorded on her credit file as a result, but as I have said if Miss S is 
concerned about that she would need to take this up directly with them.
Putting things rightI instruct M&S to write off the balance and close Miss Ss bank account without further cost 
to her or any negative impact recorded on her credit file, as a result of its closure. 
In addition, M&S should pay Miss S £75 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct M&S to write off the balance and close Miss Ss bank account without further cost 
to her or any negative impact recorded on her credit file, as a result of its closure.  
In addition, M&S should pay Miss S £75 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman