DRN-4365084
The complaint
Mr A complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) attempted too many times to take a 
loan payment from his bank account.
What happened
The issues Mr A has had with FOL stems from a loan he took of £200. Mr A was contracted 
to make four payments of £90.40 on 14 April, 14 May, 14 June and 14 July 2022. The first 
two 3payments were made as expected.
However, Mr A says that he had difficulties repaying his third payment  which was due in
June 2022. Mr A had agreed for his monthly payment to be taken by Continuous Payment 
Authority (CPA). After two attempts Mr A says under the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement, FOL shouldnt have made any more payments requests. Instead, Mr A says it 
attempted to take the payment a further 12 times.
Due to the number of attempts FOL was making, Mr A says he asked his bank to issue a
new debit card  which had a different card number. However, he says FOL updated his
card details and then took a payment on 17 July 2022 (this was the late June 2022 payment)
from money Mr A had received from a friend to help him commute to a new job. Mr A says
as a result of FOL taking this payment, he lost his job.
FOL considered the complaint and issued its final response letter which explained the CPA
was cancelled as Mr A requested on 10 August 2022. However, FOL concluded:
With the breach of terms and conditions, we would like to apologise for the error and
we have escalated this to management and the technical team to makes [sic] sure
this is rectified immediately  we can see that the funds were not collected due to this
technical error.
In order to put things right, FOL agreed to remove the interest due on the final repayment of
£28.40 and only collect the final instalment amount of £90.40. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr A referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
FOL then said Mr A didnt make that final payment and therefore the loan account
was defaulted in November 2022. It also said that while it did attempt to take the payment to 
avoid the account going into default  none of the attempts were successful.
An adjudicator then reviewed the complaint, and she explained that FOL had accepted an
error had been made and the adjudicator thought FOL didnt need to do any more than what
it had already agreed to do in the final response letter.
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment saying in summary:
There was clear evidence of a breach of the terms and conditions.
Mr A said his financial hardship was clear and the adjudicator ought to have 
questioned whether the loan was irresponsibly lent.
Mr A says he doesnt believe that providing evidence of his loss job opportunity 
would change the outcome.
He didnt accept the excuse provided by FOL that this issue arose due to a technical 
error.
Mr A said the job he was offered was a lifeline, he was unemployed when the loan 
was granted, and he is still unemployed now.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to resolve and I then proceeded 
to issue a provisional decision where I explained I was intending to uphold Mr As complaint 
in part. 
Both parties were asked to respond as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 
20 September 2023. 
Fund Ourselves hasnt responded to or acknowledged the provisional findings. 
Mr A responded and Ive summarised his response below:
He says FOL has provided mis-leading information about how it obtained his new 
card details because he didnt update his card details. 
Mr A says the terms and conditions allowed FOL to update his bank details 
automatically. 
Mr A provided further information about his lost employment opportunity, including 
that the shop is now open under new management with many of the old staff 
returning to work there. 
Mr A says that his bank informed him that FOL had indeed updated his card details. 
Mr A provided a copy of the email received from FOL which confirmed he hadnt 
requested the CPA to be cancelled - even though he had cancelled it with his bank. 
Mr A provided a copy of an email that showed there were at least 21 failed attempts 
by FOL to obtain payments towards the loan. 
Mr A confirms that he doesnt have any evidence of his job lost being directly related 
to FOL but says that it was and hes lost out on around £600 per week and he 
provided further details as to why finding employment is more difficult for him. 
Mr A says FOL should be fined for its actions. 
A copy the provisional findings follows in small font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear, that this is not an unaffordable lending complaint, this decision solely
deals with what happened when FOL attempted to take payment and the steps it took. If
Mr A is unhappy with the circumstances around the lending of the loan, he will need to take
this up separately with FOL, if he hasnt already done so.
And from the comments Mr A provided after the adjudicators assessment then his main
concern is that FOL attempted to take a payment too many times, and I agree with him
because the terms and condition and the industry regulator are clear on this point. And it is
this that this decision focusses on.
Firstly, the terms and conditions which governs the loan says (7.2.3):
If the attempt to collect the repayment failed on the repayment date or the next
business day as per clause 7.3.1 the Creditor will re-attempt to collect the repaymentusing CPA within thirty-five dates of the repayment date but will make no more than
two attempts to take the same payment CPA.
And the industry regulator in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) says:
CONC 7.6.13R
(1) Where:
(a) high-cost short-term credit provides for repayment in instalments; and
(b) a firm has on two previous occasions made a payment request, under a
continuous payment authority, to collect (in whole or in part) the same
instalment due under the agreement, which have been refused;
subject to (3) and (4), the firm must not make a further payment request
under the continuous payment authority to collect that instalment.
(2) The firm must not make a further payment request under the continuous payment
authority to collect any other instalment that is or becomes due under the agreement,
unless any request is in accordance with CONC 7.6 and in the course of a dialogue
between the firm and the customer:
Looking at the above, FOL has clearly not adhered to either the terms and conditions of the
account or CONC. From the information provided by Mr A there were at least six attempts
between 14 and 29 June 2022 to take the payment. This is in excess of what both the terms
and conditions and CONC say. Indeed, looking at CONC its clear further attempts can only
be made once there had been some dialogue and in this case, that didnt happen.
And it was also wrong of FOL to say the CPA had been cancelled from 10 August 2022.
While this was the date that the CPA was cancelled, it ought to have been cancelled long
before that date given what the terms and conditions and what CONC says.
FOL has accepted something went wrong here and said it was a technical error and this
seems like a reasonable explanation as to what has happened. Although I accept Mr A
doesnt accept what FOL has said, it isnt in this case going to be possible to find out exactly
the nature and type of technical error was.
The question for me to now consider, is given an error has been made  and FOL has
accepted this, what compensation should fairly be paid.
Mr A has said, that after the first two failed collection attempts, his CPA shouldve been
cancelled. It wasnt and he says he cancelled his card, and somehow FOL obtained his new
card details  which resulted in further attempts and a payment being taken which prevented
Mr A not being able to take on a job. Mr A says it isnt possible to provide evidence of this
job offer because the place of work is no longer trading.
I also have to consider that as a result of FOLs error a payment was taken  which Mr A
was due to make but the result of that is that his overall indebtedness to it is now smaller
than it otherwise wouldve had, had FOL correctly cancelled the payment in line with the
terms and condition and CONC.
I also have a contradictory information. Mr A says that he cancelled his card and he says
that he didnt provide FOL with his new card details. The adjudicator, in her view said
condition 7.2.6 says:
Debit card details provided by the borrower may be automatically updated by our
payment processing platform if the physical card is replaced by the bank
However, after further enquires with FOL, it explained the only way card details can be
updated is if a consumer logs into their account and changes it themselves. So, it isnt
exactly clear how Mr As card details were updated. All I can conclude, is somehow his card
details were updated with FOL.So far FOL has offered to remove around £28 worth of interest from the outstanding,
defaulted balance. But I dont think that adequately compensates Mr A for what has gone
wrong here, especially as he did appear to take steps to mitigate what was happening by
cancelling the card. And Im concluded this isnt enough to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused to Mr A.
As part of my consideration, Ive also thought about what Mr A says about him being
unemployed both now and at the time the loan was approved. Thinking about that, and what
would be the fairest thing to do in the individual circumstances of this case, in order to bring
this matter to a close, FOL should make a payment which has the effect of clearing Mr As
outstanding balance.
This would then enable a fair amount of compensation to be paid  after all there is no
dispute that Mr A doesnt owe the amount of money outstanding. And, given his current
financial situation, it will enable both parties to bring this matter to a close without any further
contact or without either side having to engage for example with a repayment plan.
Ive also thought about what Mr A says his losses are, but Ive not seen enough evidence to
show that either this offer of employment was guaranteed or how long that this offer may
have continued  given Mr A says the shop has now closed. Finally, Ive not seen enough to
be persuaded that FOLs error was the sole cause of Mr A not being able to take his job
forward. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my position on this matter, but I have to
make my findings based on the information and evidence provided by both parties and be
fair and reasonable to both parties in my decision making.
I also want to make it clear that FOL isnt required to remove the default. This is because,
after the last payment was attempted, the account fell further into arrears and no payment
plan was agreed  despite there being contact between Mr A and FOL. A default, in my
view, is an accurate reflection of the conduct of the account. However, FOL will need to
update the credit file to show the default as being recorded as satisfied.
Taking everything into account, I plan to uphold Mr As complaint and Ive outlined below
what FOL needs to do to put things right for Mr A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr A says in relation to the provisional decision. But overall, this 
hasnt changed what Im going to be asking FOL to do in order to put things right for him and 
Ive explained why below. 
Firstly, looking at the terms and condition of the account, these do suggest that the bank 
account information can be updated automatically  as outlined in the provisional decision. 
As part of my review of the complaint, I did ask further information of FOL and it explained 
that, the only way the details can be updated is if a customer logs in and updates the details. 
A screen shot was then provided, which FOL says shows this. 
In saying that, Mr A has been consistent throughout his contact with both FOL and the 
Financial Ombudsman that he didnt update his card details and FOL  using condition 7.2.6 
 could automatically update his bank details. So, it does seem to me, at least, there is the 
possibility that FOL is able to automatically update card details  because if there wasnt, 
why is there a condition within the loan terms to allow this. 
But whether FOL did update Mr As card details or not doesnt really lead me to change my 
mind about the outcome. This is because, by the time the details were updated, it had gone beyond the point where FOL ought to have continued to take payment and / or accepted the 
new card details.
I say this because CONC 7.6.13(2)R is clear, after the failed requests, no new CPA ought to 
have been collected until there had been dialogue with Mr A  which clearly didnt happen in 
this case. So, FOL did make an error with the number of attempted repayments it made and 
therefore it was wrong of it to have collected the payment in July 2022. 
I can quite understand why Mr A wants FOL fined and punished for what has happened. But 
that isnt within my remit. Any award that I may make cant be used to fine or punish the 
lender for a mistake it has made. Im also not here to determine what a jury may or may not 
award, as we are independent and an alternative to the courts. 
However, in saying that, Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said about the 
employment opportunity that he says has been lost and the trouble he has with trying to 
obtain employment. 
Im satisfied in this case, that FOL shouldnt have collected the payment in July 2022 without 
speaking with Mr A first. I know Mr A will be disappointed by this, but I cant link the payment 
taken from him with his lack of employment, especially in light of the fact that Mr A said the 
shop in question was closed for a period of time anyway and has now reopened  albeit 
under difference management.  So, I cant say with any certainty that Mr A wouldve had the 
job even after the shop had reopened. 
But thinking about my remit and the fact that the awards cant be seen as being punitive, the 
proposed outcome I made in the provisional decision to, in effect, write off Mr As 
outstanding balance and mark the default as satisfied is in my view fair and reasonable. As 
this will bring this matter to a close. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by this decision, but I want to reassure him that Ive 
read and considered everything that has been provided and Ive outlined below what FOL 
needs to do in order to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, FOL needs to take the following two steps:
FOL needs to make a payment to either itself or a third party who may own the debt 
which as the effect of clearing Mr As outstanding balance in full; and
Once this payment has been made, FOL needs to arrange for Mr As credit file to be 
updated to show the default has been satisfied.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr As 
complaint in part.
FUND OURSELVES LIMITED needs to put things right for Mr A, as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman