DRN-3418023
The complaint
Miss A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost after 
she fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
Miss A was following an individual on Instagram. The individual was from a similar 
background as they had a shared religion and culture. Miss A explains the individual had 
around 3,000 followers. The individual messaged Miss A and offered to invest in 
cryptocurrency on her behalf. Miss A said they claimed to be a freelance trader representing 
a company. The trader also told Miss A that they worked with certain well-known trading 
firms. Miss A recognised those firms. The trader said their company was on the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) register. Miss A had very limited experience in investing but saw 
positive reviews about the traders success on their Instagram profile. Miss A explains the 
trader used their shared faith to build trust and rapport. Unfortunately, Miss A wasnt 
interacting with a genuine trader linked to an authorised firm. She was really communicating 
with a fraudster. 
Miss A recalls she entered into a large amount of communication with the fraudster and was 
presented with various trading options. Miss A said the options illustrated the in-depth 
knowledge that the fraudster had. Miss A says that whenever she raised a question it was 
confidently answered. Miss A was told the investments were 100% traceable and that the 
individual only traded in the UK. 
Miss A was asked for proof of ID for security purposes and she was asked to provide her 
sort code and account number to ensure that any profits made on her investment would be 
paid into her account. 
Miss A was asked to be part of a WhatsApp group with other clients. She explains that the 
trader had a faithful word on their profile picture and referred to her as sister, which added 
another layer of trust for her. 
Miss A explained the individual would post messages daily and offered members of the 
group timeslots where they could speak and make their investments. Miss A was told that 
investments could only be made twice a month. Miss A explains the fraudster said the 
average profits were £2,000 and the cap that was put on the monthly trading suggested that 
the trader was acting for the clients best interests. 
During Miss As timeslot she decided to invest £600. The individual provided Miss A the 
bank details for the account she needed to transfer the money to. Miss A noticed the 
account wasnt in the traders name and asked why the account name was different. Miss A 
was told the trader acted on behalf of a company and the account details belonged to the 
accountant.  
On 30 April 2021, Miss A made an initial payment of £600 to the account details provided. 
She said she received hourly updates on her investment along with a graph that illustrated 
profits and small losses occurring. Miss A said the illustration was professional and mirrored 
the current climate of investments. She explains the graph that she was provided with 
showed the same information she had found online about that particular coins performance. 
Miss A said she also went onto Instagram and could see the traders stories stating how 
happy they were for clients, alongside the current coin value. The trader had also reposted 
other Instagram users stories thanking them for their services.
Later that day, Miss A received a phone call to inform her that her £600 investment had 
made an £8,000 profit, but she would need to pay a fee of £2,375 to release the funds. 
Miss A recalls that she questioned why the fee was not mentioned at the outset and raised 
concerns, but the fraudster reassured her that the fees were nothing to worry about as they 
would be deducted from the end profit. Miss A said she questioned why it was not being 
deducted from the profit that had already been made on the investment. The fraudster told 
Miss A that a fee payment needed to be made separately, but to apologise for the incorrect 
advice she would receive an additional £800.
Miss A made the requested payment of £2,375 at around 11.30pm that evening and was told 
the profits would be released in 2-3 hours. When this didnt happen, Miss A became worried 
and contacted the trader. The trader said that the finance department was closed and they 
would contact her the following morning at 10am. 
The following day on 1 May 2021, Miss A said she received a call from the trader to tell her 
that the investment had increased overnight and the profits on her account had now reached 
£14,000. The fraudster told her that she needed to pay a further fee of £2,550 to release the 
additional funds. 
Miss A said she hadnt slept all night and had been so anxious about the situation she was 
unable to eat and think straight. Shes explained she feared missing out on the gains that 
had been made and so went ahead and made the additional payment. Miss A was then told 
that the account she had made the payments to had been closed because it was too full. 
The fraudster told her she would be refunded the £2,550 but would need to make the 
payment again to a new account in the interim.
Miss A has provided some screenshots to show the fraudster started to use her faith to 
pressurise her to make the payment to the new account. Miss A told the fraudster that she 
would make the payment when the £2,550 payment she had already sent was refunded to 
her. The trader told Miss A that if the payment wasnt made within 20 minutes, she would 
lose all of the money. Miss A looked at the traders social media account and could see other 
clients had received their profits and were celebrating. Miss A explains that as the trader 
referred to her as sister, she felt protected and believed that the trader wanted Miss A to 
receive her profits. 
Miss A contacted her uncle and asked him to lend her the funds to make the payment to the 
new account. Miss A said that her uncle raised various questions and asked to speak to the 
trader. Miss A said her uncle asked her whether she had checked the FCA website to see 
whether the trader was registered. Miss A said she was unaware of this website, as it wasnt 
something she had been taught in school. Miss As uncle suspected it was a scam. 
Miss A then confronted the fraudster, who became aggressive. They told Miss A that this 
was the first time in their career that someone had made such an accusation and blocked 
her. Miss A has since found other people on social media that have also been scammed by 
the same individual.
Miss A reported the scam to NatWest on 1 May 2021. NatWest contacted the receiving bank 
and were able to recover £56 which has been refunded back to Miss A. NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. NatWest says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. 
NatWest says Miss A should have carried out checks to confirm the person she was 
speaking to was who they said they were. NatWest was not satisfied that Miss A took 
reasonable care to ensure she was making a genuine investment to a genuine payee. The 
bank felt that the rate of return was too good to be true and considered the correspondence 
from the trader did not look professional. It said the online reviews were all from the trader 
and not independent.
Miss A was unhappy with NatWests response and brought her complaint to our service. She 
was unhappy with the way the decision to decline her claim was delivered and said it was 
unprofessional. Miss A felt the bank should have identified the payments made from her 
account as unusual. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
In summary, they said they couldnt see that Miss A had carried out any checks to confirm 
who she was dealing with and considered that the rate of return being promised to her ought 
to have raised some suspicions. They also said the payments were overall not that unusual 
based on the type of transactions Miss A typically made. 
Miss A didnt agree with the outcome and felt she was targeted by the fraudster due to her 
religious beliefs. She explained this was a high value crime that is under investigation by the 
Police. Miss A added that whilst the rate of return was high from a £600 deposit, she was 
shown charts, followed by testimonials, articles and tweets which convinced her it was 
legitimate. Miss A still considered the payments were unusual and that NatWest should have 
done more to challenge the purpose of them at the time they were made. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably by not refunding 
Miss A the money she sadly lost. I know this will be disappointing news for Miss A, so I have 
explained my reasons below. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the transactions. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
NatWest should have reimbursed Miss A in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has 
signed up to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss A from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
It is not in question that Miss A was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt enough, 
in and of itself, for Miss A to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Miss A too. 
The CRM Code
The circumstances where a firm may choose to not reimburse a customer that has been the 
victim of an APP scam are limited, and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to 
meet their requisite level of care as set out in the CRM Code. 
The exception under the CRM Code that applies to this case is: 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
NatWest has argued that Miss A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payments 
she was making were connected to a genuine investment. Taking into account all of the 
circumstances of this case, including Miss As personal characteristics such as her age and 
her status as a University student, alongside the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns 
NatWest has raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Miss A was making are enough 
to support its position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
I dont think Miss A had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were connected to a 
genuine investment and that the person she was interacting with was a legitimate trader. 
I think Miss A should have done more than she did to question the situation and to satisfy 
herself that it was legitimate before sending money.  
From what I have seen, I consider the returns Miss A was being told about were too good to 
be true and ought to have caused her to have had some doubts about what was being 
offered right from the outset. The fraudster told her that she could expect a return of around 
£2,000 against an initial investment of £600. Whilst I accept that cryptoasset markets are 
fast moving, it doesnt appear Miss A had any reasonable explanation for how such large 
returns would be delivered so quickly. Miss A made the second payment of £2,375 because 
she had been told the profits from her initial investment of £600 had reached £8,000. I think 
Miss A should have questioned in her own mind the plausibility of an investment reaching 
more than 13 times its initial value in around seven hours. 
At the point of the final payment of £2,550, Miss A had been promised money that she hadnt 
yet received, and she had been told that her profits from her initial investment of £600 had 
now reached £14,000. The initial investment had grown over 23 times its original amount in 
around 24 hours. Im not persuaded that a promise of such high returns within such a short 
period of time was plausible and I think it ought to have prompted Miss A to ask further 
questions and to check the legitimacy of what she was being offered, especially before 
sending further funds. 
Miss A has explained she had very limited investment experience at the time she fell victim 
to the scam. As an inexperienced investor, Im mindful that Miss A may not have had an 
abundance of knowledge of what checks to do to try and protect herself. But Miss A has 
confirmed she didnt make any attempts to verify the investment before deciding to go 
ahead. Miss A was introduced to the investment through a social media platform, then 
correspondence moved into a group on a messaging app. Although Ive not seen all the 
communication between Miss A and the fraudster, she has provided us with some of the 
messages. From those Ive seen, I dont find the tone and informal language used to be in 
line with what Id expect of a genuine trader representing an investment firm. I think Miss A 
should have questioned why a legitimate investment trader would conduct their business 
through social media channels and at unsociable hours outside of atypical office opening 
hours. I also think Miss A proceeded to make payments against her own better judgment. At 
one point she tells the fraudster that she would ideally just wait cos I dont wanna lose a 
further 2550 [sic] and that its a very large amount thats why Im concerned. I think Miss A 
was apprehensive and had some awareness that there was a degree of risk in what she was 
involved in. 
I appreciate Miss A has said the fraudsters social media profile was convincing, due to its 
large number of followers and the testimonies and video stories of satisfied clients  but Im 
not persuaded this, in and of itself, was enough for Miss A to accept that things were 
genuine. Given the nature of the platform used, it wasnt really possible for Miss A to verify 
the truth of what she was seeing just in that platform alone. As such, I dont think it was 
reasonable for her to place such a heavy reliance on Instagram as a means of judging the 
investment, especially given the ongoing red flags that I think were present in this case. 
Miss A noted at the time of making the first payment that the account name didnt match the 
details she was expecting and she has told us that the concept of paying a fee to access 
profits was something that had not been mentioned at the outset. 
I consider that Miss A accepted was she was being told on face value without giving the 
situation enough critical thought. Her trust in what she was being told was sadly misplaced. 
I have considered what Miss A has explained about having confidence in the situation 
because of the shared faith and her expectation that she was interacting with someone that 
shared those principles and values. But the trust Miss A felt for the community is not enough, 
in and of itself, to say that Miss A did not need to satisfy herself any further, especially when 
she had picked up on indicators that did not feel right. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Miss A has told us about the anxiety she experienced 
both at the time of making the payments and in the aftermath of the scam. The CRM Code 
does refer to customers being reimbursed, despite exceptions applying, if the individual was 
vulnerable to the extent that they were unable to protect themselves from the scam. But from 
what Ive seen and from what Miss A has told us, I cant fairly say that applies to the 
circumstances in this case. I do not dispute that Miss A was involved in a situation that 
spiralled quickly. But Miss A did identify things about that situation that didnt seem right that 
she did not act upon any further, so I dont think I can fairly conclude that Miss As 
vulnerabilities put her in a position where she was less able to protect herself from suffering 
harm to this scam. 
Is there any other reason NatWest ought to refund Miss A? 
Ive thought about whether NatWest did enough to protect Miss A from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should 
provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the assessment of 
whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether 
compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
I am also mindful that when Miss A made these payments, NatWest should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).Miss A has pointed out the payments were unusual for her and says the scam could have 
been prevented if NatWest had intervened in them at the time. Having looked at Miss As 
bank statements in the lead up to the scam, I can see that some of the payments were for 
more than she typically spends. But I dont think the payment amounts in and of themselves 
stood out enough for me to be able to say that NatWest should have been concerned that 
she was at risk of financial harm from fraud. The payments would have appeared fairly 
unremarkable overall. So I dont think NatWest should have identified an APP scam risk in 
each payment journey or that it needed to provide Miss A with an effective warning before 
each payment was made.
Once NatWest was made aware of the scam, it acted quickly to try to recover the funds 
Miss A had sent, but only £56 remained. Taking everything into account, I think NatWests 
actions in this particular case were appropriate and proportionate to the payments Miss A 
was making. 
I have considered Miss As concerns about the customer service she received from the bank 
when it was considering her claim. Having reviewed the available contact notes I am unable 
to agree that Miss A wasnt aware of the status of the claim  she was in regular contact with 
the bank, albeit there was no meaningful update the bank could give about the outcome of 
the claim until it had completed its investigation. Miss A raised the claim on 1 May 2021 and 
the bank gave its answer on that claim on 28 May 2021. Miss A raised a complaint about the 
banks position on 2 June 2021 and it provided its final response on 22 June 2021, within the 
15 business days in which a business is expected to look into a complaint. I understand that 
coming to terms with being the victim of a crime and the loss of a large amount of money is 
incredibly stressful and I can see how having to wait for an answer from NatWest would 
have exacerbated that feeling. But I dont think there was any undue delay in this case.  
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss A and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent the money in good faith and 
has been left with a loss. But I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for the actions of a 
fraudster. I can only look at the banks position on Miss As fraud claim and its assessment 
under the CRM Code. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the bank does not 
have to refund Miss A under the CRM Code. Im also satisfied the bank processed Miss As 
payments correctly and that it did all it could to help her once it knew what had happened.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWests position on Miss As fraud claim, and its assessment 
under the CRM Code, was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that NatWest 
has no obligation to reimburse Miss As losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman