DRN-4444248
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to manage his pension plan 
properly or provide him with annual statements during which time the value fell significantly. 
He wants compensation for his losses.
What happened
Mr B says he had three different pension plans with Aviva, one he contributed to and two 
older plans. He wanted to consolidate the plans and used an adviser for this. His plans were 
transferred in May 2023, and he says he was shocked that the transfer value of one of the 
older plans (a s32 transfer plan) was around £11,688 less than the value Aviva had last 
advised around four years before. 
Mr B complained to Aviva saying it had been charging fees but hadnt managed the portfolio 
well given the fall in value. He said it had failed to provide him with valuations or any 
warnings about the poor performance of his plan since 2019. Aviva looked into Mr Bs 
complaint. But after eight weeks said its investigation hadnt been completed, so he could 
refer his complaint to our service if he wanted to. Which he did. 
Our investigator asked Aviva for its file and looked into the complaint. Aviva then provided a 
final response letter to Mr B. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had emailed annual 
statements as normal in 2020, 2021 and 2022 to the email address it held for Mr B. It said it 
hadnt received any non-delivery replies and had used the same email address for the 2019 
statement which Mr B did receive. It said the reduction in value was due to fluctuating 
investment returns, which it wasnt responsible for as it only administered the plan. And it 
was Mr Bs responsibility to check the investments remained suitable. It said the statements 
sent to him recommended he take financial advice about this. 
Our investigator issued his own view of the complaint, and he didnt uphold it.
He said there was no evidence Aviva had made an error. He said it had correctly sent the 
annual statements to the email address it had for Mr B, without any indication that these 
werent being delivered. He said the fall in the value of the fund before Mr B transferred was 
caused by adverse investment market conditions. He said markets had been volatile since 
2019 due to the impact of the Covid pandemic, the Russian invasion of Ukraine and rising 
interest rates. He said Aviva didnt manage the underlying investments and could only make 
changes if instructed to do so by Mr B or his financial adviser. 
Mr B disagreed. He said if Aviva didnt manage the pension fund how had it been able to 
change the investment funds previously and then;
extract a third of my pension pot when in fact according to the investment listing I 
had from Aviva  all my funds were invested in BlackRock which was paying good 
dividends the whole time. 
He said he didnt believe our investigators statements regarding the functioning of the 
money markets. He sent a graph showing the performance of BlackRock who in 2022 had;
declared a phenomenal 7,700% increase in their investment. Why has that reflected 
negatively for me.
He said Aviva had taken too long to look into his complaint and that our service had adopted 
a laissez faire approach and hadnt answered his questions about the poor performance of 
his pension. 
As Mr B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mr B has made in coming to my decision and I realise how 
strongly he feels about the issues he raises. So, Ill explain why I dont think it is reasonable 
to say Aviva has made any error or treated him unfairly. As there are several aspects to Mr 
Bs complaint, Ill consider these in turn. 
Time taken by Aviva to consider the complaint
I understand Mr Bs frustration here. But how a business has dealt with a complaint isnt 
normally something our service can consider because it isnt a regulated activity. So, this 
isnt something I can award compensation for. I can see that Aviva did tell Mr B he could 
refer his complaint to our service for an independent review after eight weeks if it was unable 
to conclude its own investigation within that time. 
Failure to provide statements
Aviva has shown that it sent the statements to the email address it held for Mr B, one to 
which it had successfully sent statements to previously. It appears he had changed his email 
address at some point and theres no evidence he updated Aviva with it. Mr B would have 
been aware he wasnt receiving statements and he could have contacted Aviva to query this 
or obtain a valuation of his plan at any time. So, I dont think Aviva made any error here. 
The investment funds held
Aviva wasnt providing Mr B with advice, and this was made clear on the statements he had 
received. These suggested he seek financial advice and review the arrangement. So, its 
clear from this that Aviva wasnt going to review the investments for Mr B and it couldnt 
change any investment without him instructing it to do so. 
Mr B has said that Aviva had changed funds previously and had switched him into these 
poorly performing funds. And that is true, Aviva had made changes to the fund holdings. But 
this was under an automatic 10-year lifestyle switching programme selected by Mr B when 
he first took the plan out. 
This meant that what are generally considered to be riskier investments like shares and 
property would be progressively switched to fixed interest and cash type investments in the 
10-year period before the selected retirement date of the plan. Which was 2019 in this case. 
This was set out on the annual statements sent to Mr B and the exercise had been nearly 
completed by the time he received the 2019 statement. The idea behind lifestyling switches was that risk would be reduced and the assets held 
would reflect movements in annuity rates as the retirement date approached. But there were 
no guarantees. Like any investment strategy this needed to be reviewed to accommodate 
any change in circumstances. Such as Mr B deciding not to take the benefits in 2019, or 
changes in investment conditions. As Aviva wasnt providing Mr B with advice, he would 
either need to do this himself or liaise with a financial adviser. As noted, the annual 
statements sent to him made this clear. So, there is no evidence Aviva has made any error 
here.
The investment returns
The annual statements show the fund value increasing from 2019 to 2020 before falling in 
2021, with a sharper fall again in 2022. There was a further reduction in value before the 
transfer was made in May 2023. 
The investment funds held were managed by BlackRock (a fund management company 
independent of Aviva) and were the Sterling Liquidity Fund, which increased in value 
slightly between the 2019 and 2022 statements. This is basically a cash deposit fund. There 
was a larger amount in the Over 15 Year Gilt Fund which, unfortunately, fell in value by 
around 20% over the same period. 
I can see that this fund actually performed very similarly to the sector average. That is the 
average performance of funds investing in the same type of underlying assets. This type of 
fund mainly invests in UK Government debt (Gilts) and are generally considered to be of low 
risk over the medium to long term. But the capital value will tend to fall if interest rates rise, 
or in the expectation that they will rise in the future. Or in response to economic or political 
shocks, such as occurred during Liz Trusss brief premiership in 2022. Unfortunately for Mr 
Bs investment that is what has happened over the time period involved.  
So, there is no evidence Aviva has taken anything other than its agreed management 
charges from Mr Bs fund. The value reduced in line with the value of the underlying 
investments held. And whilst the investment was managed by BlackRock it wasnt itself in 
BlackRock shares, which is what are shown on the graph Mr B sent to our investigator. This 
does show a total return, including dividends, of 7,700%  although this was between 
October 1999 and December 2022 not between 2019 to 2023. An investment in BlackRocks 
shares is a very different thing from an investment in a fixed interest fund managed by it and 
it isnt fair to directly compare the two. 
However, Mr Bs graph also shows a fairly significant fall from a peak in around November 
2021 to December 2022. And BlackRocks share price fell by around 25% in that time, with 
the peak to trough fall in the interim greater than this. This does further demonstrate that 
investment markets were volatile over the period. That was outside Avivas control, and it 
wasnt its responsibility to manage the investments directly or advise Mr B to make any 
changes.  
So, whilst it is unfortunate that the value of Mr Bs pension plan declined, I dont think Aviva 
has made any error, and that means I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman