DRN-4292944
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy  that HSBC  UK Bank  Plc won't  refund  money  he paid to a third party.
What happened
On 26 July 2023, I issued my provisional decision on this matter. I wanted to give both sides 
a chance to provide any further evidence or arguments before I issued my final decision. 
That provisional decision forms part of my final decision and is copied below.
What happened
Mr L became  acquainted  with a person  that I'll call C. C said that he was very short  of 
money  and needed  to pay off a debt urgently  or risk losing  his businesses.  C asked  
Mr L if he could  lend him £25,000.  Mr L agreed  and took out a loan for that amount  
with HSBC,  before  paying  it to C.
C made  some,  albeit  late, repayments,  but those  soon  stopped.  Mr L says  he only 
lent the money  because  he was unwell  at the time and he claimed  C had no intention  
of repaying  it in full.
Mr L reported  the matter  to HSBC.  It said that he had a civil dispute  with C. Our 
Investigator  didn't  agree.  They  were  of the view that C had made  a false  claim  - that 
he'd lose his businesses  if he didn't  receive  the money.  And,  the Investigator  thought  
that the money  hadn't  been  used  in the way Mr C claimed  it would  be.
They  also argued  that there  was strong  evidence  that C was of bad character  - he'd lost 
a serious  civil claim  in another  country  and there  were  questions  about  his financial  
status  reported  in the media.
The Investigator  was satisfied  that Mr L had fallen  victim  to a scam  and, because  he 
was vulnerable  at the time,  HSBC  should  refund  his loss under  the provisions  of the 
Lending  Standards  Board  Contingent  Reimbursement  Model  CRM  Code  ("CRM  
Code")  which  requires  its signatories  to reimburse  victims  of authorised  push  
payment  scams  in all but a limited  number  of circumstances.
HSBC  didn't  agree.  It said it wasn't  even  sure that C and the person  reported  in the 
media  were  the same  person  and it wasn't  for it to prove  how the loan was used.  It 
also pointed  to the fact that some  repayments  had been  made.
Finally,  it said that the bad character  evidence  was from years  prior and didn't  amount  to 
credible  evidence.
As no agreement  could  be reached,  the case  was passed  to me for a final decision.
What  I've provisionally  decided  - and why
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
It's first important  to state  that Mr L is generally  responsible  for transactions  he's 
made  himself.  It's also not disputed  that the loan agreement  is between  him and the 
bank  and he is responsible  for maintaining  contractual  payments.
Neither  is HSBC  liable  because  C defaulted  on the loan or because  Mr L was 
vulnerable  when  he applied  for it. HSBC  will only be responsible  for his loss if the 
circumstances  of that loss are covered  by the CRM  Code.  But, for its provisions  to be 
relevant,  Mr L must  have  fallen  victim  to a scam.  In this case,  in my view,  that means  
the evidence  must  support  a finding  that C deceived  Mr L into lending  him money.  
Such  a finding  would  essentially  be one of criminal  wrongdoing.  That's  not a finding  
that should  be made  lightly.
The evidence  Mr L has for such  a finding  is quite  limited  and largely  relies  on some  
suggestions  of bad character,  his failure  to repay  the loan and an unpaid  civil 
settlement  in another  country.
Mr L acknowledges  that he reported  the matter  to the police,  but they said it was a 
civil dispute.  In fact, Mr L has attempted  to pursue  C through  civil channels  - sending  
and receiving  responses  from C's legal  representatives.  While  I've seen  the letters  
Mr L sent to C, I have  not seen  the responses,  other  than an excerpt  in which  C 
claims  that he asked  Mr L for a loan because  he needed  money  urgently.
A letter  dated  29 April 2022  from Mr L's solicitor  to C states:
'you explained  to our client  that you required  £25,000  or you would  "end up losing  
everything".  You did not disclose  the purpose  of said funds  during  this call but stated  
that you felt bad having  to ask our client  to borrow  money  ... As you appeared  very 
emotional  and distressed,  our client  agreed  to loan you £25,000  which  he obtained  
from HSBC  shortly  after the video  call on 29 October  2021'
In a further  letter,  it is claimed  that C made  a slightly  more  specific  claim  - that he'd lose 
his businesses  if he didn't  receive  the money.
It's not clear  whether  it was untrue  that he owned  the businesses  in question  and 
could  lose them.  But, in any case,  it's arguable  whether  either  formulation  of the 
statement  could  reasonably  amount  to a fraudulent  misrepresentation.  The phrase  
"end up losing  everything"  may simply  have  been  a hyperbolic  way of expressing  that 
C was in debt and was in desperate  need  of money  to repay  those  debts.  It's also 
evident  from the 29 April 2022  letter  that no specific  debt or obligation  was mentioned  
by C during  the call.
It is for Mr L to demonstrate  that what  C said wasn't  true. I haven't  seen  any evidence  
that C didn't  use the money  in the way he said he would  - to pay off an urgent  debt.  
Much  of the evidence  Mr L has provided  is of C's bad character  and failure  to pay a civil 
settlement,  but that only seems  to support  the idea that C's financial  position  was poor.
I've also reviewed  the correspondence  between  Mr L and C after the loan was granted.  I accept  that C seems  to have  made  promises  about  repayment  that he 
hasn't  kept.  I don't  know  whether  his claims  about  having  his accounts  frozen  or the 
sums  apparently  in them  are true. But, I'm afraid  that failed  promises  to pay do not 
persuade  me that the loan was obtained  by deception.
It's not possible  for me to know  whether  C intended  to repay  the debt in full. But it's 
clear  that he maintained  contact  after the money  was received  and made  some  
repayments.  Again,  the fact he failed  to repay  the debt in full may simply  have  been  a 
reflection  of his poor financial  position.
That's  not to say I rule out the possibility  that the loan was obtained  dishonestly,  but 
there  simply  isn't enough  evidence  to support  such  a finding.  I'm afraid  that only a 
police  investigation  may be able to establish  criminal  wrongdoing  (or otherwise)  on 
the part of C. That means  I can't  consider  these  circumstances  under  the provisions  
of the CRM  Code  and I don't  intend  to ask HSBC  to refund  the lost money  or write  off 
the loan.
As I'm not persuaded  that Mr L fell victim  to a scam,  I don't  think  HSBC  had any 
obligation  to try and protect  him or try and recover  his money.  But, in any case,  I've 
listened  to Mr L speaking  to HSBC  prior to the £25,000  payment  being  released.  He 
was calm,  claimed  to have  known  C for a long time and said that the payment  was for 
medical  expenses.  He said he'd take all responsibility  for the payment  if something  
went  wrong.  I understand  Mr L may have  been  unwell  at this time,  but I can't  see any 
reason  for HSBC  to have  been  concerned  that Mr L was vulnerable  or at risk of 
financial  harm.
I'm sorry  that Mr L has lost out here.  I don't  doubt  what  he's said about  being  taken  
advantage  of and I accept  that he may not have  agreed  to provide  the loan under  
different  circumstances.  But, for the reasons  I've explained,  I can't  see any grounds  
to hold HSBC  responsible  for his loss.
My provisional  decision
For the reasons  I've explained,  I do not intend  to uphold  this complaint.
Mr L submitted further evidence and arguments in response to my provisional decision. He 
said that Cs financial position was not poor  as hed been provided with a screenshot of his 
bank accounts which showed they had considerable balances. Mr L also provided a 
screenshot of instant messages in which C claimed hed be able to repay the loan in full 
once he returned to the U.K.
He also provided the full correspondence between C and Mr Ls solicitor (Id only seen an 
excerpt previously). That consisted of Cs account of events  including an explanation as to 
how, in his view, the loan had come about. In addition, Mr L acknowledged that he couldnt 
prove how C spent his money or that he used it to pay off an urgent debt. He suggested that 
this was something that I ought to be able to establish.
Finally, he questioned what due diligence HSBC had done on Cs account and whether it 
had adequately assessed his risk profile.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ls further submissions, but Im not persuaded to change my 
decision. 
Both screenshots Mr L provided in response to the provisional decision have previously 
been submitted in evidence. The context around the screenshot showing Cs apparent bank 
account balances was that C, seemingly several months after the loan was granted, claimed 
to have money in another country that hed been unable to access for six months. I dont 
know if this was true, or indeed whether the screenshot is real, but I suggested that Cs 
financial position might have been poor at the time Mr L agreed to take out the loan. That 
screenshot doesnt persuade me that it wasnt. Neither does the screenshot showing that C 
promised to repay the loan in full on his return to the U.K., it again just demonstrates that C 
claimed to have access to money in the U.K., not that he actually did or didnt need the 
money L lent him to pay off an urgent debt, as he claimed.
The response by C to Mr Ls solicitor does little to change my mind either. Thats not to say 
that I accept Cs account of events as being honest, complete and truthful. I recognise that 
there appears to be some contradictions between Cs account of events and the instant 
messages Ive seen (particularly around repayment terms). But it does little to illuminate the 
key issue here  whether C obtained the money from Mr L fraudulently. And, for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I dont find that the evidence supports that view.  
I understand Mr L cannot prove how C spent the money he was loaned. He doesnt have 
access to Cs bank statements. Im unable to share information about Cs account with Mr L, 
other than to say that theres nothing Ive seen which contradicts Cs version of events. 
As for the final points raised by Mr L, Im unable to consider matters relating to the operation 
of Cs account as part of this complaint. There are limited circumstances under which our 
service can consider a complaint brought by a consumer about another persons account. 
But such matters would need to be considered as a separate complaint and, given that Ive 
concluded that Mr L didnt fall victim to a scam, any such complaint is likely to be limited in 
scope. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman