DRN-2015524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a Level Term Assurance (LTA) 
policy.
 
What happened
In September 2002, Mr and Mrs E took out an LTA policy in a meeting with Lloyds. The LTA 
was set up with a sum assured of around £31,000 for a term of 17 years, with a monthly 
premium of £20.
In late 2019, Mr and Mrs E complained to Lloyds. They were expecting the policy to pay out 
a lump sum on maturity, but this didnt happen. Mr and Mrs E felt the policy wasnt clearly 
explained to them when they took it out. 
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs E had been provided with documents confirming the details of the 
policy at the time of sale. These made it clear there was no cash value. It was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs E were seeking personal protection in the event they died within the term of their 
policy. The LTA was suitable to address that need. Mr and Mrs E had the benefit and 
security of knowing that a cash lump sum would have been paid if a claim had been made 
while the policy was in force.
Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into Mr and Mrs Es concerns but didnt think their complaint should be upheld. He felt 
the paperwork showed Lloyds had made a recommendation based on Mr and Mrs Es 
requests. It also showed there was no cash value at any time and the policy would pay a 
lump sum in the event of death during the term of the policy.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with our investigators view. Mr E said he thought they would stop 
having to pay premiums at the end of the 17 year term. But he expected the policy to carry 
on and pay out when he or Mrs E died. He felt theyd paid a lot of money and wouldnt get 
anything in return. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs E, so it was required to check it was suitable 
for them. It also needed to provide them with clear information about the policy so they could 
make an informed decision about taking it out.
I cant know exactly what was said in the meeting. But Lloyds has provided a copy of the 
personal summary and recommendations document from September 2002.  Mr and Mrs E 
have both signed this. So, I think its likely to be a fair reflection of what was discussed.
This says Mr and Mrs Es priority was to receive advice relating to making financial 
provision in the event of (their) death. It goes on to show that the advisor recommended 
single LTAs for Mr and Mrs E with critical illness cover.
 
Its explained that the LTA would provide a cash lump sum in the event of your death or on 
diagnosis of a specified illness (an optional benefit available at an additional cost) at any 
time throughout the term of the policy. There is no cash-in value at any time and you should 
maintain payments throughout the term of the policy otherwise your cover will cease.
As Mr and Mrs E were only able to commit £20 per month for premiums, the advisor 
recommended they proceed with a joint LTA with a lower sum assured. Its also noted that 
Mr and Mrs E declined critical illness cover because they didnt want to further reduce the 
sum assured.
I think Lloyds recommendation to take out the policy was reasonable, given what was said 
about their requirements and what they could afford to pay at the time. I also think Lloyds 
clearly explained that the LTA would only pay out if one of them died during the term of the 
policy.
The policy schedule shows an expiry date of 24 September 2019 with a last period due 
date of 23 August 2019. Theres no mention of a lump sum or any suggestion that the cover 
would continue beyond the expiry date. 
Mr and Mrs E signed to confirm theyd received relevant Key Features Document(s)/ 
Brochure(s) at the time of sale. Lloyds hasnt been able to provide copies of these. But its 
sent us a brochure and key facts document dated December 2002. And I think the 
documents Mr and Mrs E received are likely have contained similar wording. These explain 
that theres no cash-in value and the plan will end with no payment being made, if there isnt 
a claim by the end of the term.  
Mr E says he suffers from short-term memory loss and dyslexia. Its possible this affected his 
ability to read and understand the paperwork. But I havent seen anything to suggest Lloyds 
was aware of Mr Es medical conditions at the time. I also havent been told of any reason 
Mrs E wouldnt have been able to understand what was in the documentation.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs E, who feel that they havent 
received anything in return for the premiums they paid. But the purpose of the policy was to 
provide protection in the event of one of them passing away during its term. Fortunately, this 
didnt happen, so they didnt need to make a claim. But they benefited from the peace of 
mind that policy would have paid out if one of them had died during the term.
Overall, I think Lloyds has acted fairly and the recommendation was suitable for Mr and    
Mrs E. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman