DRN-2368235
The complaint
Ms S complains that Urban Jungle Services Ltd (UJ) auto renewed her home insurance 
policy without her permission. 
What happened
Ms S contacted UJ via the phone and spoke to an agent. She asked about a short-term 
home insurance policy and was told that there were two that UJ offered one of six months 
and the other 12 months. Ms S said that she needed the policy for around seven months but 
was happy to pay for the 12-month period. As the purchase process couldnt be completed 
over the phone, Ms S agreed that she would take out the policy online. 
Ms S took out cover for home insurance effective from September 2018 for a year. During 
the online process, there was an auto- renew box that required Ms S to untick the box to 
ensure that the policy wouldnt be auto-renewed. Ms S didnt untick the box and the policy 
auto-renewed in September 2019 with the £40 premium deducted from her account. 
She contacted UJ to obtain a full refund and to ensure that the policy was cancelled. UJ 
refused to refund the premium pointing out that when she bought the policy online, Ms S was 
required to untick the box for the policy not to be auto renewed. It said that it had sent 
renewal emails to Ms S and it had advised her that she had a 14-day cooling off period, if 
she didnt wish to auto-renew and a full refund would be paid to her. But as she didnt 
contact UJ, the policy auto-renewed.  
Ms S wasnt happy with this outcome and raised a complaint. In its final response, UJ 
maintained its position as before. So, Ms S referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that the auto renew information on the online process was prominent and so 
wouldnt be hard to miss. She also accepted that UJ had sent renewal notices that informed 
Ms S when the policy would auto renew. Finally, she felt that UJ had acted in accordance 
with the terms of the agreement and so she couldnt uphold the complaint.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigator. She said that she didnt approve the automatic 
renewal as she didnt require it nor did she agreed to pay the renewal premium. So money 
had been taken from her account without her permission. Ms S asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms S, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents and the comments from both parties. Ms S had taken 
out a short-term home insurance policy. The main issue of this complaint was whether UJ 
auto renewed the policy without her permission.
It isnt disputed that Ms S initially contacted UJ by phone to enquire about the short-term 
policy. I have listened to the call. I accept that Ms S said that she only required the policy for 
a few months. The agent didnt mention that the policy would auto-renew unless Ms S 
specifically opted out. But, as Ms S said that she would complete the application online, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for the agent not to have mentioned this. 
I have been provided with a copy of the insurance schedule, the payment details page as 
well as the renewal notices that were sent to Ms S. I can see that on the payment details 
page there was a section that details the auto renew and invites the user to untick the box to 
opt out. 
On the insurance schedule, there was a section detailing UJs terms relating to automatic 
renewal. This outlined that UJ would automatically renew the policy on its end date, using 
the original payment method, unless the policyholder opted out. It also indicated that renewal 
notices would be sent at least 21 days before the renewal date and before any payment was 
taken. 
Ms S accepts that she received the renewal notices but chose not to read the emails as she 
felt that she had no reason to open them. Consequently, I dont think that it is reasonable or 
fair to conclude that UJ hadnt provided enough information for Ms S to be aware of the 
procedure regarding the automatic renewal. Nor had it failed to adequately notify Ms S of the 
renewal.
I also think that had Ms S chosen to read the renewal emails this wouldve given Ms S the 
opportunity to stop the policy automatically renewing. Taking all of this into consideration, I 
cant agree that these warnings werent clearly displayed. And I think UJ did enough to 
highlight the term. 
In addition, the insurance schedule, as well as the renewal notice emails outlined the 14-day 
cooling off period, which I can see allowed Ms S time to decide if a policy would meet her 
needs and if it didnt, Ms S wouldve been entitled to a full refund. Ms S didnt contact UJ to 
cancel the policy and said that she didnt read the renewal emails. So, I cant fairly ask UJ to 
refund the premium as I think it correctly took the payment. 
In the circumstances, I dont think that UJ made an error in automatically renewing the policy 
and deducting the premium. So, I cant reasonably or fairly ask UJ to do anything more to 
resolve this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman