DRN-2096930
The complaint
Mr D complains about Claim Hunters Ltd (CHL) and the success fee they are chasing him 
for. Mr D believes they falsified information and didnt have authority to make a claim on his 
behalf.
What happened
On 21 January 2018, Mr D completed several questionnaires to enter an online competition 
ran by a third-party website, who Ill refer to as W. Included in these questionnaires was a 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) questionnaire for CHL.
CHL received this questionnaire and submitted PPI checks for the lenders Mr D listed. Most 
of these checks returned unsuccessful. But lender L confirmed to CHL that theyd identified 
PPI on Mr Ds account. CHL say they sought additional authorisation from Mr D in August, 
which he provided. So, they submitted a PPI claim to Lender L in October. 
In November, Mr Ds claim was successful, and he received a net refund of £1,881.04. CHL 
didnt receive a copy of this final response letter detailing the amount Mr D would receive. 
They chased CHL for an update in February 2019 and received a copy of the response 
shortly after. So, they invoiced Mr D for their success fee totalling £630.70.
Mr D was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint. He didnt think hed authorised CHL to 
submit a claim on his behalf and that hed contacted lender L directly to pursue his claim. 
And he felt CHL had falsified information by using a Letter of Authority (LOA) that he hadnt 
signed. So, he didnt think CHL had acted fairly when invoicing him for a success fee and 
wanted it to be waived.
CHL didnt agree. They thought they had the necessary authority to submit a claim on Mr Ds 
behalf. And they explained Mr D had signed the LOA electronically by inputting a virtual 
signature and ticking a box that agreed to their terms and conditions. So, they didnt think 
theyd falsified any information. Because of this, they felt theyd acted fairly when invoicing 
Mr D for their success fee and didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr D remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained hed seen the 
pages Mr D wouldve used when completing the questionnaire on website W. And he 
thought this made it reasonably clear Mr D was instructing CHL to submit PPI claims on his 
behalf. Hed also seen lender L refer to CHL in their final response which satisfied him that 
their submission had resulted in a successful claim and because of this, he felt CHL had 
acted fairly when invoicing for their success fee. He also explained he didnt think 
information had been falsified based on the evidence hed seen. So, he didnt think CHL 
needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He maintained CHL had falsified information and that the signature 
included on the LOA wasnt his. He felt this supported his view that CHL had created and 
falsified the document when they were only authorised to complete a free PPI check. So, he 
didnt think the fees were payable as CHL werent authorised to make a claim on his behalf. 
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience this complaint has caused Mr D. I can 
understand why Mr D wouldve been both confused and upset when he received an invoice 
from CHL as hes explained he wasnt aware they were working on his behalf. I appreciate 
Mr D feels he secured his PPI refund through work he completed directly with lender L, so 
doesnt believe CHLs success fee is due. But for me to agree, Id need to be satisfied that 
CHL had no authority to make a claim on Mr Ds behalf. Or, that any work they did complete 
had no impact on the success of Mr Ds claim. And although I have considered Mr Ds 
comments around falsified information, I dont think that is the case in this situation.
Mr D initially felt he hadnt signed up to use the services of CHL at all. But in his comments 
for me to consider, Mr D recognised he had completed a questionnaire but felt this was for 
CHL to complete a free PPI check only. So, Ive considered whether Mr D was reasonable to 
assume this.
Ive seen the web pages Mr D wouldve seen when he completed the questionnaire on 
website W. After the questionnaires had been completed, a form of authority was displayed 
with an option to add a virtual signature underneath. This authority explained that Mr D was 
authorising CHL to act on my behalf in relation to my claim for compensation arising out of 
the mis-selling of insurance or financial products by you (lender) to me.
And for Mr D to submit the questionnaires and be entered into the prize draw of the online 
competition, Mr D had to tick a box agreeing to CHLs terms and conditions. Directly 
alongside the box to tick, it explained that Mr D was agreeing to a fee being recoverable by 
CHL for any claim that was successful. The terms and conditions were also available just 
above the tick box in a scroll box. And Ive seen these terms and conditions which explain 
under the section Scope of work that CHL would correspond with the organisation or 
individual that sold your policywith the aim of securing a successful claim on your behalf. 
So, Ive seen no evidence that suggests the questionnaires and authority Mr D completed 
were for a free PPI check only. I think the information Mr D wouldve seen made it 
reasonably clear that he was entering into an agreement for CHL to undertake PPI claims on 
his behalf and that a fee would be payable if the claims were successful. 
But Im aware Mr D thinks the authority CHL used to pursue his claims was falsified. So, Ive 
considered this at length. CHL have confirmed the signature Mr D wouldve inputted in the 
box online wouldve been lifted from this application and imported onto a LOA so it was able 
to be sent to Lender L. Mr D hasnt disputed that he completed these questionnaires and as 
Ive explained above, Im satisfied Mr D completed the application process after the 
questionnaires. Ive seen the first LOA CHL held was dated 21 January 2018, the same day 
he completed the questionnaires. So, I think its reasonable to assume the signature 
included on the LOA was the signature Mr D submitted online. So, I cant say this 
information was falsified.From what Ive seen, Mr Ds main concern relates to the second LOA CHL hold, dated 21 
August. Mr D doesnt believe he signed this LOA, and so doesnt think this was valid. CHL 
have said Mr D followed a link on a text message which re-authorised them to continue. And 
theyve explained its their process to take the same signature initially provided and again 
import this onto a new LOA. So, Ive thought about whether I think is what was most likely to 
have happened and whether this was reasonable.
Ive seen CHL sent a text message to Mr D on 21 August at around 9pm. This text message 
asked Mr D to sign a new LOA and provided a link for him to follow that would complete this 
process. Ive seen CHLs system notes which provided a system update the following day, 
notifying CHL a new LOA had been completed. CHL confirmed the website link they sent to 
Mr D was accessed around 9.30pm on 21 August. So, I think its most likely that Mr D did 
follow the link sent to him by text. And by doing so, he authorised CHL to continue. 
I do appreciate Mr Ds concerns regarding the signature included on the LOA. CHL have 
confirmed they only take a signature from a customer once. So, the signature on the second 
LOA is the same as the first and I dont think Mr D wouldve been required to sign a second 
document. But I dont think this means the LOA was falsified. By following the link, I think Mr 
D re-authorised CHL to continue. Although I appreciate Mr D hadnt signed a printed copy, I 
dont think this in itself invalidates the authority CHL held. Had Mr D not wanted CHL to 
continue, I wouldnt have expected him to follow the link. And Ive seen no evidence to show 
Mr D contacted CHL at any point to make them aware he didnt want them to act on his 
behalf any further. So, I think CHL have acted reasonably by proceeding to submit a claim.
To ensure the fees CHL have charged are fair, Ive then considered whether the work they 
completed led to the refund Mr D received. Mr D feels he provided information to lender L 
directly, and its this work that led to the refund.
Ive seen CHL submitted a claim to lender L in early October. Ive seen lender L replied to 
CHL acknowledging the claim and making CHL aware an acknowledgement letter and PPI 
questionnaire had been sent to Mr D directly because of CHLs submission. So, I think its 
likely Mr D completed this form and sent it to lender L directly, without the involvement of 
CHL. But I dont think this means CHL arent entitled to charge their fee. At this point, I think 
Mr D shouldve been aware CHL were working on his behalf. So, if he was unhappy at 
completing this form himself, I wouldve expected him to contact CHL and ask them to 
submit them for him. But I cant see that he did. It was lender Ls decision to contact Mr D 
directly, even though they acknowledged CHL were acting as his representative. 
And Ive seen in lender Ls final response sent in November 18, CHLs reference was 
included. And when CHL chased lender L for a copy of this response in February 2019, it 
was sent to them as lender L recognised they were the acting representative.
Without CHLs initial PPI check, and their complaint submission, I dont think Mr Ds 
complaint wouldve successful. I recognise information he provided may have supported his 
claim, but I dont think its fair to hold CHL responsible for lender Ls decision to contact him 
directly, and Mr Ds decision to continue with this direct contact. The agreement Mr D 
entered into with CHL is a no win no fee agreement, meaning a set fee is chargeable when 
a claim is successful. This agreement isnt dependent on the amount of work a company 
completes, only that the work they did do resulted in a successful claim. And in this situation, 
I think it did. So, I think CHL have acted fairly when charging Mr D a success fee in line with 
the fee information set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement. And because of 
this, I dont think they need to do anything further.
Im aware this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. And I understand due to the length of 
time thats elapsed, Mr D may no longer have the refund he received to pay the success fee. But Ive seen CHL have offered Mr D the opportunity to discuss an affordable payment plan 
and this is something I hope remains a reasonable option.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Claim Hunters Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman