DRN-1686011
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs B. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs B was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs B has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
mainly because I dont have strong enough evidence to show that AXA didnt give Mrs B a 
real choice about taking the PPI. 
The form, which Mrs B signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by ticking 
a box  and the box has been ticked. Mrs B has said pressure was put on her to take the 
PPI and that it was made clear that her application for the store card would be successful if 
she took the PPI. The problem is that it all happened about 23 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
fair it would be to rely only on what she now remembers  it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember the detail of what happened so long ago.  I would need other 
supporting evidence  which I realise would be difficult for Mrs B to get. But I cant fairly 
uphold her complaint on this point. 
Ive thought about other ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold, but I dont think 
these apply in this case. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Bs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs B to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs B clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs B. So, in those circumstances, I think about whether better information is likely 
to have made a difference. But in Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, even if shed been 
given all the necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her 
decision. (This is assuming she was given a proper choice, which I accept she says didnt 
really happen  Ive explained my thinking on that issue, above.) I say this because:
Mrs B would have been eligible to make a claim (she has told us she was working 
part-time, but more than the minimum 16 hours a week needed to qualify under the 
policy).  
its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or 
redundancy pay. 
its not clear she had many alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit 
account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she did, she could have kept that 
in reserve for longer. 
it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy. 
So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information 
probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mrs B took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman