DRN-3330300
The complaint
Miss K complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited unfairly accepted her as the guarantor on a 
loan taken out by the borrower. Miss K said 1Plus1 Loans didnt properly carry out 
affordability checks or assess the signs that she was already over indebted. 
What happened
Miss K was given a loan by 1Plus1 as follows: 
Date Amount Term (months) Monthly 
RepaymentTotal 
Repayable
21/08/2020 £3,000 60 £114.38 £6,862.80
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ks complaint. After looking at the information 1Plus1 
Loans had seen when doing its affordability checks our investigator didnt think that Miss K 
had a reasonable level of disposable income left once all of her bills, credit commitments 
and regular monthly outgoings were taken into account and 1Plus1 hadnt allowed properly 
for all the usual spending Miss K actually incurred each month. Our investigator felt that the 
loan was unaffordable for Miss K and didnt think that 1Plus1 shouldve provided it. Our 
investigator set out the steps 1Plus1 needed to take to put things right. 
Miss K would like to see her complaint settled in the way our investigator suggested. 
1Plus1 disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it disputed the figures that 
our investigator had used when assessing affordability and said it was still satisfied that 
Miss K had sufficient disposable income to be able to make the loan repayments. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
1Plus1 Loans had responsibility for ensuring that the loan repayments were affordable and 
sustainable for Miss K before agreeing that she could be guarantor for this loan. This meant 
that 1Plus1 Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss K could afford to make all the loan payments in the event she had to. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are guaranteeing.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation, 1Plus1 Loans still needed to think about whether there was any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to accept Miss K as guarantor. For example, if 
it shouldve realised that she was already over-stretched financially or struggling with debt.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 1Plus1 Loans did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Miss K.
1Plus1 Loans asked Miss K about her income and expense. It verified her income 
electronically and also carried out credit checks and it looked at information shown on her 
bank statements. 1Plus1 Loans told us it also took into account statistical information to 
compare Miss Ks expenditure against national data showing typical spending for someone 
in the same situation. 
1Plus1 Loans recorded a figure of £1,136 net salary per month plus benefits of £976 and 
after doing its own background checks, it boosted the amount of Miss Ks expenditure  and 
this led to 1Plus1 reducing the amount it was prepared to lend to Miss K. 
When looking at what she could afford, 1Plus1 Loans said it had included a safety buffer of 
an extra £100 in its affordability calculations to allow for unexpected costs. So when it 
worked out after doing all this that Miss K should still have an average amount of £106 each 
month to spend on discretionary items over and above her essential spending it felt that the 
monthly repayments of £114.38 for this loan were affordable for Miss K.  
I think a proportionate check in these circumstances did require 1Plus1 Loans to ensure it 
had a detailed understanding of Miss Ks finances, given that she was signing up to 
guarantee the loan for the next five years if the loan ran to term. I say this because the 
monthly cost presented a high risk of becoming unaffordable or unsustainable over the term 
of the loan. 
1Plus1 Loans could, of course, decide for itself how to undertake proportionate checking and 
it has said that the information it relied on to assess affordability was an exact replica of her 
actual banking data and taken directly from Miss Ks bank statements  which she had 
supplied covering the months prior to the loan. 1Plus1 Loans has sent me its affordability 
calculation and Ive also looked at Miss Ks bank statements from around the time of this 
loan which I think provide useful insight into her finances at the time. 
I dont need to say more about the checks it did because the main reason Im planning on 
upholding this complaint is that I dont think 1Plus1 Loans thought carefully enough about 
what the information it had gathered showed about Miss Ks overall financial situation and 
the likelihood of her being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think 
1Plus1 Loans made a fair lending decision when it lent to Miss K based on the information it 
had gathered.
I can see from looking at her bank statements that Miss K was making full use of her 
arranged overdraft limit of £300 during the three months running up to her signing up to 
guarantee this loan. Typically her account was overdrawn, often close to the account limit and she was in credit only briefly around the time her wages were paid or the benefits she 
received were credited to the account. This meant, in effect, that Miss K was reliant on 
continuing to use borrowed money from the bank to meet her day to day spending needs.
I've taken into account that 1Plus1 Loans has said she could have boosted her income by 
making only the minimum monthly repayments owed on cards as she was paying more than 
she was contractually obliged to. But I think its fair to say that making minimum monthly 
repayments on cards effectively extends the debt potentially for years and it adds very 
significantly to the long term cost of that credit  repayments at that level are insufficient to 
make any meaningful inroads into card balances. Miss K wanted to reduce the outstanding 
balances more quickly. So I dont think it was fair for 1Plus1 Loans not to allow for this when 
assessing the affordability of its loan.
I think its also clear that the amount of income paid by Miss Ks ex-partner could vary. So 
basing affordability of a loan that Miss K was going to be liable to pay for the next five years 
on the assumption that the full amount was guaranteed doesnt seem to me to be fair and 
reasonable.
All in all, I think 1Plus1 Loans shouldve realised that Miss Ks finances were, in actual fact, 
already under significant stress and that the reality of her situation was that this additional 
debt would be unmanageable for her. The fact that 1Plus1 Loans reduced the amount it was 
prepared to lend doesnt mean this loan was fairly provided. 
If 1Plus1 Loans had factored into its affordability calculations the amounts it saw Miss K was 
actually spending out of her account each month this wouldve resulted in Miss K having little 
or no disposable income left. I dont think the £100 buffer was enough to offset this given 
that Miss K was persistently stuck in overdraft in excess of this amount. And an additional 
outgoing of £114.38 wouldve likely led to her exceeding her arranged overdraft limit and/or 
reducing her card repayments. Or to put things another way, she would be reliant on 
unauthorised (or at best additional) borrowing in order to make these loan repayments or 
otherwise she would need to maintain other credit balances in order to be able to prioritise 
paying this loan. I think both those options- effectively needing to use other credit to repay 
additional borrowing - would have likely been detrimental to Miss K. And looking at her 
monthly expenditure, I think its fair to say that there was limited scope for her to cut back on 
other spending throughout the loan term  keeping in mind that a figure approaching half of 
her overall monthly income (according to the figure 1Plus1 Loans relied on) included benefits 
that were paid based on her income and circumstances and specifically intended to help 
cover other costs  not repay additional debt.  
So, for all these reasons, I cant reasonably say that 1Plus1 made a fair lending decision and 
I dont think it should have agreed to provide this loan to Miss K.
I appreciate the time 1Plus1 Loans has spent setting out its position in some detail and 
I acknowledge that 1Plus1 Loans has taken a different view to me. In coming to my decision 
Ive thought carefully about everything 1Plus1 Loans has said, including its detailed 
responses to our investigators view. But this doesnt affect my overall view. I think it was fair 
for 1Plus1 Loans to use Miss Ks guaranteed wages when assessing affordability even if 
Miss Ks average income could be boosted by overtime earnings as there could be no 
assurance that this would always be a possibility, especially bearing in mind that the loan 
term goes beyond what I think would be a reasonably foreseeable length of time. And the 
fact that the payments from Miss Ks ex-partner seemed to have continued consistently at 
the higher level isnt enough to make me think this means it was fair overall to accept her as 
guarantor for the loan. Miss K made the loan repayments in place of the borrower. As I dont think that Miss K 
should have been accepted as the guarantor for this loan, Im satisfied that she has lost out 
as a result of what 1Plus1 Loans did wrong. So, I think 1Plus1 Loans needs to put things 
right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss K has responded to my provisional decision. I have heard nothing further from 1Plus1 
Loans and the deadline for responses has now passed. So I think its reasonable for me to 
proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Miss K for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
1Plus1 Loans should take the following steps:
release Miss K from any obligations she has under the Guarantee and Indemnity 
agreement she signed and then terminate it, 
refund any repayments Miss K has made towards the loan, with 8% simple interest* 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement,
Miss K shouldnt have been party to this loan so I dont think its reasonable that her 
credit file should be affected by it. This means that 1Plus1 Loans should remove any 
information it has recorded on Miss Ks credit file concerning the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
1Plus1 Loans should give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ks complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman