DRN-3884604
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the way in which Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) settled a pet insurance 
claim.
Ms J is being represented by Mr D on this complaint. 
Any reference to Allianz includes all its agents.   
What happened
Ms J took out an annual pet insurance policy for her pet cat, who I will call N. 
On 11 March 2020, Ms J took N for a check-up at the veterinary clinic she had been using 
since 2017. This showed that N needed to have dental treatment and recommended a full 
blood test, a general anaesthetic for dental scale and polish, dental x-rays and extractions. 
Ms J was advised that the estimated cost for this would be between £500 to £800. 
On 13 March 2020, Ms J requested pre-authorisation for the planned dental treatment from 
Allianz. Initially, the pre-authorisation was declined by Allianz, but after a further review, Ns 
recommended treatment was pre-authorised.
The treatment was scheduled for 17 July 2020. N was put under general anaesthetic and as 
per the vets normal practice, and as per the request of Ms J, they contacted Mr D. This is 
because, prior to the treatment, Ms J had asked the vet to contact Mr D first so he could 
review the dental x-rays himself before allowing the vet to proceed with any extractions. 
Mr D wasnt able to come into the practice in person due to the Covid-19 restrictions that 
were in place at the time. The vet would have therefore been required to save all the 
relevant x-ray images, email these to Mr D for review and then to await his response before 
proceeding. The vet explained to Mr D that he could not justify extending the general 
anaesthetic that N was under at the time, and, in his professional opinion thought the 
request was inappropriate and would put Ns welfare at risk. The vet didnt think Mr Ds 
opinion regarding the x-rays was required in his own decision-making as a veterinary 
surgeon. The vet explained that his priority was N and he contacted Mr D (who was acting 
on behalf of Ms J) to seek his consent regarding Ns teeth extractions. He also explained to 
Mr D that without consent, he would need instead consent to limit the anaesthetic time as 
much as possible and needed confirmation to wake N up. 
Mr D questioned the need for the extractions and requested to see the x-rays again. Mr D 
was given the option to consent to N being woken up and seeking an alternative opinion 
from another veterinary practice or proceed with the extractions. Mr D gave his instructions 
as per the outlined initial pre-authorised treatment. 
The extractions were carried out and the cost exceeded to more than that which was 
estimated at between £500 to £800. The vet has said this was because consent was given 
to extract as many teeth as were deemed potentially painful. He explained the surgery was 
more difficult and prolonged than anticipated given the severity of the periodontal disease. 
Unhappy with how the treatment had been conducted and the subsequent higher cost of the 
pre-authorised dental treatment for N, Ms J made a complaint to Allianz. The final cost of the 
treatment was £2,029.65. Allianz settled the claim directly with the veterinary practice as per 
its invoice. The excess was payable directly to the practice by Ms J and was £497.93. Ms J 
disputed this with the practice, and this was ultimately waived by it. Ms J said Allianz acted 
unfairly by paying the claim for an amount that wasnt the agreed, pre-authorised estimate 
but significantly higher and this was unlawful. 
Allianz responded. It said it hadnt done anything wrong in settling the claim as per the vets 
invoice. The policy terms and conditions has cover for veterinary fees up to a maximum of 
£6,000 for each policy year. The invoice Allianz received was for a full dental examination, 
x-rays and extractions. The treatment was pre-authorised and that was what was ultimately 
carried out so there was no need for Allianz to question or challenge the cost. Allianz 
confirmed the pre-authorisation was for the dental treatment itself and not the cost of the 
treatment. The only time Allianz would challenge the invoice would be if the treatment was 
inappropriate. It said, from the information available, it wasnt Allianzs responsibility to query 
the treatment.  
Ms J brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and concluded that 
there wasnt any evidence to show Allianz made any errors in assessing and settling the 
claim. She also didnt think Allianz failed to follow the processes applicable to policy holders 
and to Ms J. And she didnt think Allianz had acted unreasonably in accepting Ns claim for 
dental treatment. 
Ms J disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I can see Ms J feels strongly about both Allianzs response to the claim as well as our 
investigators findings. She has provided comprehensive responses to both. Id like to 
confirm that by not repeating each and every point here, Im not in any way demeaning those 
responses. Additionally, Id like to reassure her that while I wont be responding to each and 
every point, I have read all the submissions carefully.
It is also important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a 
free alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms J. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
I also confirm Im not a medical professional. In order to reach any decision on Ns medical 
condition, it is necessary for me to rely on the information provided from those experts who 
have seen and treated him.The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Ms Js policy terms and conditions. I note that the claim was for Ns 
dental treatment. I can see under the section Conditions for Veterinary Fees and 
Complementary Treatment, there is cover for dental treatment. 
There are no exclusions for dental illness or injury under Ns policy. Im therefore satisfied 
the event that led to the claim is covered under the policy. I note also theres no dispute from 
either party about whether the claim is covered. 
Has the claim been handled fairly?
Ive carefully considered all of the information provided by both parties. Ive also listened to 
all the call recordings provided and also looked at Ns medical history provided by the vet 
which includes notes of Ns check-ups from 2017 up to 2020 (when the claim was pre-
authorised). 
The crux of Ms Js complaint is that while the claim was pre-authorised for an estimated 
amount of between £500 to £800, the final cost of the treatment was more than that amount. 
Ms J believes Allianz unfairly agreed and paid the increased amount and this wasnt the 
agreed pre-authorised amount. 
I appreciate Ms Js comments. However, while the estimated cost of Ns dental treatment 
was between £500 to £800, this was an estimate. Allianz pre-authorised the dental treatment 
as per Ns policy terms and conditions, it didnt pre-authorise the cost of that treatment. This 
isnt unusual in policies such as this one and its normal insurance practice to pre-authorise 
the treatment rather than the cost as its not always that clear cut as to what the cost of the 
treatment would finally be. I note the maximum cover for veterinary fees on the policy for N 
was £6,000 for the policy year and that included dental treatment. So, as the final cost was 
just over £2,000, it doesnt seem unreasonable to not have queried this amount as its within 
the policy limits. 
I can see from the information available that the cover pre-authorised was for a full dental 
examination, x-rays and extractions. And the evidence shows this was the treatment given to 
N. So, there was no change from the pre-authorised treatment to the actual treatment. To 
confirm again, I dont think it was unreasonable that Allianz therefore didnt query the final 
invoice  even though it was for more than the initial estimated cost as it was still within the 
limit as per the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive considered also that Allianz consulted its in-house vet and its claims validation team. 
This is what I wouldve expected as Ms J had raised concerns regarding how the claim had 
been paid. Allianz confirmed there was no evidence to suggest the claim had been paid 
unreasonably. Having looked at how the concerns have been investigated, I think this was 
carried out fairly and in line with what would be expected. 
To explain, Allianz, reviewed the pre-authorised treatment. The claim and the invoice were in 
line with the pre-authorised treatment and also within the policy limits for veterinary fees. I 
appreciate that the final cost was more than was estimated but that is not unusual and there 
was no requirement for Allianz to query this because the final invoice was within the policy 
limits for veterinary fees and more importantly, the dental treatment N received. Im satisfied 
therefore that Allianz followed its processes in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
There were no exclusions under the policy, N had the appropriate cover and therefore the 
claim was settled as such. 
Ms J says its unfair practice for Allianz to pre-authorise treatment which could potentially end up being significantly more than initially estimated. Based on the evidence available, I 
dont agree, and Ive provided above my reasons as to why I dont agree. But for 
completeness and to reiterate, Allianz followed its processes, and I cant see that it treated 
Ms J unfairly in doing so. It accepted the claim as it was one that was covered under the 
policy, it was within Ns policy limits and looking at everything, there has been no financial 
detriment caused to Ms J. This is because the claim was settled as it should have been and 
the excess that was due was waived by the veterinary practice also. So, in terms of Allianzs 
actions in settling the claim, Im not persuaded it did anything wrong. 
I understand that theres a dispute with regards to the conduct of the treating vet and what 
treatment was deemed necessary at the time. I appreciate there has been an impact to N as 
a result of the extractions that were carried out by the vet. But that isnt something that I can 
look at nor is it something we can look into at this service. The actions and conduct of the 
veterinary practice have to be directed to the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS). 
Our services remit goes only as far as looking into how Allianz handled the claim and 
whether it did what it should have done. Ive carefully considered this, and I dont think 
Allianz has handled the claim unfairly or unreasonably. Its also not this services role to ask 
a business to change its policies. If Ms J has a concern on Allianzs policies and practices, 
she will need to direct this to the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
This service can only look into the merits of the complaint and the individual circumstances 
of it. 
Ms J disputes that the consent given to the vet by Mr D, on behalf of Ms J, was informed. 
Ms J has quoted case law and would like our comments on this. Ive considered this and I 
confirm I wont be commenting on it except that the case law isnt relevant to this complaint 
Im looking at here. Its about medical negligence and as Ive said above, this is something 
that should be directed to the veterinary practice or the RCVS. 
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account and looking at the circumstances of this claim, Im not 
persuaded that Allianz settled the claim unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont 
require Allianz to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman