DRN-3891306
The complaint
Mr A is complaining that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Hitachi Personal Finance) 
hasnt fairly supported him in respect to a dispute he has for an installation of a kitchen. He 
brings the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In July 2019 Mr A entered into a contract with a third-party company  who I shall refer to as 
W  to buy a new kitchen. W was also contracted to fit and install the kitchen. The cash price 
of the kitchen was £11,166.15 and he agreed to pay a further £2,515 for W to install it. He 
paid a deposit of £1,354.63 and took out a separate fixed sum loan agreement provided by 
Hitachi to pay the balance. Part of Ws order form also included a requirement to carry out 
some electrical work at a further cost.
Under the terms of the finance agreement, Hitachi would activate the agreement when the 
kitchen is installed, upon which payments were then to be deferred for six months. If Mr A 
settled the finance in full in that time, he didnt have to pay any interest.
W delivered the kitchen in December 2019, but didnt provide the extractor fan and delivered 
some incorrect parts. In January 2020 W delivered the extractor fan, but Mr A said it wasnt 
suitable. So he arranged to replace it at a W store. Furthermore, some of the parts delivered 
were still incorrect.
Mr A looked to arrange with Ws contractor fitter to get the new extractor fan and remaining 
parts fitted, but there were delays in doing so  initially due to the contractor missing 
appointments and then further delays owing to Covid-19. 
Mr A also highlighted that there were some significant electrical issues as a result of the 
work done by the kitchen fitter.
Mr A also complained that, in January 2020, W informed Hitachi the kitchen had been fully 
installed, so Hitachi activated the finance. As a result, the first payment became due in 
July 2020.
Mr A was unhappy with the way W was resolving his concerns so he referred his complaint 
to the Furniture Ombudsman (FO). The FO arranged to inspect Mr As kitchen and 
highlighted a number of faults. It said the kitchen wasnt installed to a satisfactory standard in 
certain areas and it said there were remedial works that needed to be done to bring the 
aesthetics up to the required standard. It highlighted around 17 issues it said needed to be 
rectified. It recommended W paid £400 in compensation, plus a further £120 for the cost 
Mr A paid to rectify one of the electrical issues. 
Mr A didnt accept the FOs findings and asked Hitachi to step in as the finance provider. 
Hitachi said it wasnt liable for the electrical issues as these were in relation to work carried 
out separate to the main contract with W. It said it and W were bound by the FOs findings. 
However, it offered him £450 to put things right. And it highlighted W was willing to carry out 
the remedial work.
Mr A didnt accept Hitachis offer and referred his complaint to this service. And, in summary, 
he raised the following:
The kitchen was supposed to be installed at the beginning of December, but wasnt for a 
number of months after. He said this meant they didnt have full use of it for Christmas.
He had to continually chase W and the fitter to get the work completed and he said the 
fitter failed to turn up to some of the appointments.
The fitter left the kitchen in a dangerous state with the electrical work.
Hes lost faith in W and doesnt want W to do the rectification work.
He doesnt think £450 is fair compensation.
He thinks W fraudulently told Hitachi the kitchen was completed, which meant Hitachi 
released the funds from the finance agreement. He thinks Hitachi should have recovered 
the money back from W.
Hes unhappy Hitachi started to charge interest on the finance. He asked it to put the 
matter on hold while this service completed its investigation, but it wasnt willing to do so. 
He thinks its unfair hes incurred charges on the finance when the kitchen still wasnt 
installed.
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I think there are two things I need to consider in this complaint:
1. Is Hitachis offer to resolve Mr As Section 75 claim fair?
2. Is it fair for Hitachi to have charged Mr A interest?
Is Hitachis offer to resolve Mr As Section 75 claim fair?
Mr A partly paid for the kitchen through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 sets out that 
in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Hitachi is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Under the contact with Mr A, W had agreed to supply and install a kitchen. Legislation  in 
this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the contract that W had 
to supply a kitchen that was of satisfactory quality and then fit it with reasonable care and 
skill. W was also required to fit it within a reasonable time.
Ive reviewed the report compiled by the FO and its clear there are numerous issues from 
the installation. So Im satisfied the kitchen wasnt fitted with reasonable care and skill. 
Furthermore, not all parts were delivered on time. As a result of this, Mr A didnt have a 
functioning extractor fan for a number of months. So I dont think W supplied all aspects of 
the kitchen within a reasonable time.
Hitachi has offered £450 in compensation and to pay for a third party to carry out the 
rectification work. I understand W has offered to supply any parts that need replacing free of 
charge. The issue for me to decide here, is whether Hitachis offer to put things right is fair. I 
think it partly is. Ill now explain why.
Firstly, I note Mr A has referred to issues with the electrical work the kitchen installer did, but 
the schedule of works makes it clear that the electrical work didnt form part of the contract 
for the kitchen installation. It also clearly sets out that this work was a separate invoice. I can 
also see that Mr A paid separately for this too. So I dont think Hitachi has any liability for 
anything that may have gone wrong with the electrical work, so I wont comment on this any 
further in this decision.Section 75 gives Mr A a like claim against Hitachi if there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by W. So, I must give consideration to what losses Mr A would likely be 
able to recover in court against W when considering what the like claim might look like. Im 
mindful when doing this that courts dont typically tend to make awards for non-financial 
losses such as distress and inconvenience for breach of contract apart from in limited 
circumstances (which I dont think would be likely to apply here).
As I said, the CRA implies a term that a service must be provided with reasonable care and 
skill, but it also sets out Mr As rights where this doesnt happen. Essentially, Mr A has the 
right to two things:
1. Require the merchant  W  to repeat the service  i.e. fix the issues that have arisen; 
and
2. Request a refund  up to the full amount paid.
Hitachi has agreed to pay for a third-party company to do the work to put things right. But it 
thinks its fair that W provides the replacement goods rather than the third party to provide 
them. I think this is fair. Mr A has said that his trader wont guarantee the work unless he 
provides the goods. But I dont think this is a fair reason to require Hitachi to pay an inflated 
cost to put things right. And Im not persuaded W providing the goods would invalidate any 
installation or rectification guarantee the third-party trader would ordinarily give. It needs to 
be remembered that its standard practice for a company such as W to provide the goods 
and a third-party trader will install them. And this doesnt invalidate any guarantee or 
warranty a trader may provide. Ultimately there would be two separate contracts here  a 
supply contract provided by W and an installation contract provided by the third-party trader. 
The supply contract wouldnt have any bearing on the quality of the service provided by the 
third party.
So, taking all this into consideration, I think its fair that W provides the goods free of charge 
and Mr A then finds a reasonably priced contractor of his choice to carry out the rectification 
work. I think Mr A should provide up to three quotes to do the work from a trader of his 
choice and Hitachi can decide which is most suitable. If Mr A is unable to provide a suitable 
quote, Hitachi should arrange for the work to be done. 
Ive now thought about whether the £450 in compensation is fair. As I said, Hitachi isnt liable 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr A has suffered. But, given the issues Mr A faced with 
the installation, I think hes entitled to a price reduction on the amount he paid to install the 
kitchen.
I think its important to note that Mr A paid an amount for the kitchen goods itself and a 
separate amount to install it. I havent seen anything to suggest there were issues with the 
quality of the goods W supplied  merely with the way they were installed. And this is 
confirmed by FOs inspection. So I think Mr A is only entitled to a price reduction off the cash 
price of the installation  £2,515.
Ive reviewed the photos of the kitchen and the FO report. It seems to me that the issues 
were largely aesthetic  i.e. the issues didnt impact the way Mr A was able to use the 
kitchen. I can understand how upsetting it would have been for Mr A to have paid the 
amount he did for his kitchen and to have had the number of issues he did. But I also have 
to take into account that he did have the kitchen installed and has been able to use it in the 
way intended. So I think its fair that he pays for this.
However, Ive also taken into account that the kitchen was due to be installed at the 
beginning of December 2019. But W didnt deliver the extractor fan and also provided 
incorrect parts. Ultimately, I understand the kitchen wasnt fully installed for around a further six months. I acknowledge part of this was down to the impact of Covid-19. But, had the 
correct parts been provided when they should have done, Mr A wouldnt have suffered these 
delays.
I do think Mr A is entitled to a reduction in the cash price for the installation. £450 equates to 
around 18% of the cash price, but I dont think this is sufficient. I think Mr A is entitled to 
around a 30% reduction. So I think Hitachi should increase this offer to £750. 
Is it fair for Hitachi to charge interest?
Mr A feels its unfair that hes had to pay interest on the finance agreement while there were 
still issues with the kitchen. He also thinks W acted fraudulently in telling Hitachi it had 
installed the kitchen.
I should first set out that, while Hitachi has joint liability under Section 75, the finance 
agreement and Ws supply agreement are separate agreements. Mr A isnt paying Hitachi to 
use the kitchen, but his payments are to repay the money he borrowed to finance the 
purchase of a new kitchen. Hitachi has fulfilled its contractual responsibility to pay W, on 
Mr As behalf, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Hitachi to require Mr A to repay the 
finance and to charge interest in line with the terms of the finance.
I acknowledge Mr A is unhappy the finance agreement was activated and he believes W 
acted fraudulently in telling Hitachi it had installed the kitchen, given he hadnt signed a 
completion satisfaction form. However I dont agree. Hitachi hasnt been able to provide the 
covering letters that were sent to Mr A explaining when an agreement will be activated. But, 
from experience, Hitachi wouldnt require a satisfaction note from W prior to activating the 
finance as the finance can be activated when the kitchen is installed. And I dont think the 
presence of a few snagging issues to be fair grounds to say W isnt entitled to be paid for 
the work. Ultimately, W had carried out a significant substance of its contractual requirement 
to supply and fit the kitchen. So I dont think its unreasonable it was paid for this.
But, even if this wasnt the case, Im conscious that Hitachi provided Mr A with a further 10 
month interest free payment deferral. And, while I understand why he was reluctant to do so, 
it was ultimately Mr As decision to not pay the finance. So, taking everything into 
consideration, I cant say it was unreasonable for Hitachi to start charging interest on the 
finance agreement when it did.
Mr A didnt accept my provisional decision and, in summary, raised the following points:
It was his understanding that the finance agreement wouldnt be activated until he signed 
the completion satisfaction form. He said the installer didnt return to complete the 
installation which is why he didnt sign the form. He says Hitachi told him that it was 
activated in error and shouldnt have been activated without a signed completion 
satisfaction form. He maintains that the installer fraudulently signed the form to get paid 
for the work he did.
He acknowledged Hitachi deferred the payments for 10 months, but he said this was in 
line with its offer to defer payments until the matter was resolved, which it still isnt. He 
said he wasnt prepared to pay for a service he hadnt received. Hed estimated the 
interest charge to be around £50 per month which he said he was prepared to risk to get 
the matter resolved. He didnt understand how the interest was calculated and said hes 
been stung by such a high interest charge.
He didnt receive an electrical certificate, appliance guarantee or workmanship guarantee 
as per our W installation customer documentation.
He doesnt agree that it would cost Hitachi more for his contractor to purchase the goods from W, rather than for W to supply them directly. He said the quote was based upon 
Ws January 2022 list price.
He doesnt think its possible to find a contractor to rectify the work as he said that, when 
he tried before, contractors said they werent interested in rectifying other peoples work.
He says the issues with the kitchen arent just aesthetic and maintains that there were 
structural issues and unnecessary massive cut-outs in the carcasses which he said 
allowed a rat to enter the larder unit.
Hitachi responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr As comments into consideration, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did 
in my provisional decision.
I dont think Mr A has raised anything significantly new to what hes raised before. I 
appreciate Mr A feels strongly about whats happened and he doesnt agree with what Ive 
said, but Im satisfied that my provisional decision sets out why I reached the decision I did 
and also fairly addressed the points Mr A raised. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I shall 
make the following additional comments:
Mr A disputes that the issues were largely cosmetic and hes highlighted that his family 
did suffer a lot of distress and inconvenience as a result of what happened. But, as I set 
out in my provisional decision, I dont think Hitachi is liable for any distress and 
inconvenience W  or its agents  caused him. And I remain of the opinion that a £750 
price reduction is fair compensation.
I acknowledge Mr As comments that Hitachi said the agreement shouldnt have been 
activated. But for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont the issues that 
were present with the kitchen gave fair grounds to say W wasnt entitled to be paid for 
the work carried out. I dont think its unreasonable that Hitachi doesnt have to have a 
signed completion satisfaction form to activate the agreement. If it had to wait for this in 
every case, it would enable a consumer to delay the activation of the finance by refusing 
to sign the form, even if the work was fully completed. Im not saying thats the case 
here, but, ultimately, I dont think its unreasonable that the agreement can be activated 
without a signed satisfaction form.
Mr A says he didnt receive the appliance certificates and guarantees, but I think he 
needs to contact W directly to request these.
I note Mr A says theres no difference between W supplying the replacement goods 
directly to his contractor supplying them as the quote was based Ws own list prices, but 
I dont agree. The list prices include a level of profit and Hitachi would be paying to 
purchase the goods, but W has offered to provide the goods free of charge. So I cant 
reasonably say its unfair for Hitachi to say W should provide the goods and Mr A can 
arrange for them to be installed.
I note Mr A says he cant get a contractor to carry out the rectification work, but my 
provisional decision sets out what Hitachi should do in this instance  i.e. it should 
appoint a contractor to carry out the work. Its for Mr A to decide which avenue to 
undertake.
Ultimately, I remain satisfied that the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that Hitachi 
increases its compensation offer to £750. And I dont award anything further. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to increase its compensation offer to £750. It can use 
this to reduce the amount owed on the finance agreement if Mr A hasnt already paid it off. If 
Mr A has paid the finance, which I understand he has, it should also pay 8% simple interest 
(less tax if appropriately deducted*) from the date Mr A paid off the finance until Hitachi pays 
it.
* If Mitsubishi thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman