DRN-3542719
The complaint
Mr K complained that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) didnt act fairly when it retained 50% of 
the premiums paid when he was dual insured on his home insurance.
What happened
Mr K bought a home insurance policy with a new insurer, but he said he hadnt realised his 
policy with AXA had automatically renewed so it resulted him being dual insured. In other 
words, he had two polices when he could only receive the benefit from one.
AXA have offered to refund Mr K 50% of the premiums he paid. However, the new insurer 
wouldnt refund any of the premium as it told Mr K he wasnt part of the Association of British 
Insurers  the new insurer told Mr K his old insurer (AXA) should refund all the premiums. 
So, Mr K has complained to AXA that it will only provide a 50% refund.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think Mr K was aware that AXA 
were going to re-new his old policy so would never have made a claim on that policy, so he 
thought AXA should refund all the premiums plus 8% simple interest for the time hed been 
without the money. AXA were also asked to pay £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. AXA disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 26 May 2022. I said:
Its understandable that Mr K didnt want to pay for two policies when he could only be 
indemnified once. The circumstances of this complaint appear accidental. Mr K stated the 
auto-renewal of his policy was not the subject of his complaint. If there was no mis-sale of 
the policy or no business mistake, and the case was purely an accidental mistake by Mr K, 
then Id expect normal industry practice to be followed. Thats for both businesses to refund 
50% of their respective premiums. This is because, in the event of a claim, both insurers 
would have 50% liability for it  so it follows they should receive 50% of the premium to 
match the risk theyre taking.
AXA has explained that the renewal documents were sent to Mr K in the same way they do 
as part of the annual renewal process. AXA said the renewal documents included a 
statement If our cover still meets your needs there are no changes that you need to tell us 
about, theres no need to contact us, your policy is set to automatically renew on 31/10/2020
and well collect the amount using your latest payment card a week before this date.
With this evidence, I think it is an accidental mistake. Mr K was sent the renewal 
documentation that said his policy would auto-renew. Payments wouldve been taken from 
one of his accounts for the policy. However, Mr K accidentally put himself in a position where 
he was dual insured. As I dont think AXA have done anything wrong here, I think the normal 
industry approach should apply. As AXA has followed this approach, I think it has been fair, 
so I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr K could consider making a complaint to his new insurer, to recover 50% of the premiums 
paid to it.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr K didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said I argue that there was a business 
mistake in that [it] didn't send any correspondence about a renewal. Obviously if I'd seen any 
renewal documents from them I would immediately have been alerted, as I proactively 
purchased a new policy in 2019 (from N) and in 2020 (from M). [It] renewed my
policy twice, both times without my knowledge.
Mr K continued the investigator was right that because I was unaware of the AXA policy, I 
would not have claimed on it. So, Mr K said my decision was incorrect in saying both 
insurers would have 50% liability in the event of a claim.
Mr K said the ombudsman already knows that the other insurer has said it is not obliged to 
pay a 50% refund as it is not a member of the ABI, so he thinks its odd I have suggested 
Mr K makes a complaint against them.
Mr K said he hasnt yet received the 50% refund from AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. Mr K said AXA auto-renewed his policy twice without his knowledge. 
However, I have seen evidence AXA sent Mr K the renewal documents and money will have 
been taken out of Mr Ks bank account. I think Mr K ought to have been aware of the 
renewal. Even if Mr K wasnt, I wouldnt think AXA has acted unfairly. As the policy was set-
up on an auto renewal basis and AXA followed a reasonable process in doing this. 
Therefore, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
As I set out in my provisional decision the normal industry approach should apply here. I 
stand by my comment that Mr K could make a complaint to his new insurer to recover the 
50% of the premiums paid to it, as this would be the normal industry approach.
Mr K said AXA hadnt refunded the 50% premiums. I can see it offered to do this and so Im 
assuming it didnt as Mr K raised a complaint. AXA still need to pay this refund (if they 
havent already).
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require AXA Insurance UK 
plc to do anymore (but for the avoidance of doubt, if it hasnt paid the 50% premium 
refund it offered, it still needs to do this).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman