DRN-2632737
The complaint
Mrs G complained because JP Morgan Europe Limited refused to refund her for a 
transaction she said she didnt make.
What happened
Mrs G had a Post Office card account  provided by J P Morgan. Her pension was paid into 
the account, and every few weeks she went to a Post Office and withdrew cash. On 25 
March 2019 she went to a Post Office and withdrew £600 in cash. 
Two days later, on 27 March, she went to a different Post Office to check her balance. She 
said this was a large Post Office, and things were chaotic because not all the tills were open. 
This meant that people buying groceries were in the same queue. 
Mrs G said there was a young child in the next queue screaming. The cashier asked Mrs G if 
she could serve the mother and child before Mrs G, and Mrs G agreed.  This meant Mrs G 
had to wait several minutes while the cashier was absent. Shed already put her card into the 
card machine on the counter, but couldnt remember whether she had also put her PIN in 
before the cashier left. Mrs G left the branch with a balance slip timed at 11:44:54, which 
showed her balance of £4,884.83.
When Mrs G received her statement dated 24 April, she saw that there was a £600 
withdrawal on 27 March as well as the one on 25 March. She said hadnt taken out £600 on 
27 March, and she complained.
JP Morgan didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. In its final response, it said that the branch had 
supplied transaction reports which confirmed that the disputed transaction on 27 March had 
been completed successfully. It said the correct funds had been given, together with a 
receipt. There had been no reported system failures that day, and no balance discrepancies 
to tally with Mrs Gs claim.
Mrs G wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator looked into Mrs Gs complaint carefully. He asked JP Morgan multiple 
questions about how its systems work, and what happened on the day. He told Mrs G that 
he wasnt suggesting he didnt believe what she was telling him, and what she believed to be 
true. But he said he had to balance this with the electronic and other evidence provided by 
JP Morgan. 
The investigator explained that the Post Office electronic records showed that at 11:44:01 on 
27 March, there was a withdrawal of £600 with a balance enquiry.  At 11:44:31 there was a 
balance enquiry alone.  Both transactions were authenticated using Mrs Gs card and PIN. 
At 11:45:52, the records show cashier completed the £600 cash transaction. JP Morgan 
told the investigator that the actual removal and counting of the cash could have happened 
at any time during the transaction. The investigator explained that he had to put weight on 
the fact that the request for cash, and the balance enquiry, had both been made using Mrs 
Gs card and PIN.
So the investigator said he couldnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with this. She said that whenever she took cash out of her Post Office 
account, the paper slip she was given showed both the withdrawal amount and the balance. 
But the paper slip which she had from 27 March only showed her balance. Mrs G said this 
showed that she hadnt taken out any cash that day. She said that no money had been given 
to her and there was no way her card had been put in twice. She asked for an ombudsman 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the regulations say
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place on 27 March 2019 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, JP 
Morgan) must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part. The 
regulations say that the next stage is to consider whether or not the card holder (here, Mrs 
G) authorised the transaction.
What this means for Mrs Gs complaint
To consider authentication, Ive looked closely at the electronic evidence provided by JP 
Morgan.  Electronic evidence is generated by the computer, and cant be interfered with by 
the cashier involved. The computer also records whether it was a genuine card which was 
used, and how any activity was authenticated. Here, the electronic evidence shows that:
- a £600 cash withdrawal was authenticated using Mrs Gs genuine card and correct 
PIN at 11:44:01, and 
- a balance enquiry was authenticated using Mrs Gs genuine card and correct PIN at 
11:44:31.
So the disputed transaction was technically authenticated. Ive then gone on to consider the 
second part of what the regulations say, which is whether or not Mrs G authorised the 
disputed transaction.
Mrs G has been very clear and consistent in what shes said, and the phone call recordings 
show she is very alert. Ive taken her evidence seriously when she said she didnt withdraw 
any cash on 27 March. Shes also pointed out that shed taken out £600 only two days 
earlier, so she didnt need to withdraw any more money. This fits the pattern of the previous 
statements that I have  withdrawals of a few hundred pounds about once a month. So it 
would have been out of character with the other withdrawals for that to happen.
Mrs G has also said that the fact that her receipt doesnt show a cash withdrawal, only the 
balance, proves that she didnt take out cash that day. Im not persuaded by this argument, 
because there should have been two receipts for the authenticated transactions  one 
showing a cash withdrawal and balance, and the other showing what Mrs G has ie just the 
balance. 
Ive also considered whether Mrs G should have known there was a problem when she took 
this balance receipt away with her on 27 March. But I dont think she should. We dont all 
know the exact balance of an account. And Mrs G told us that the Post Office branch was chaotic and very busy when she went in. So I consider it was reasonable that she didnt 
know about the problem until her statement arrived some weeks later.
Against that is the clear computer evidence which shows that Mrs Gs genuine card and 
correct PIN were entered. It seems strange that the two transactions were only 30 seconds 
apart. Its also odd that a balance enquiry should have been requested so soon after a cash 
withdrawal which  as Mrs G correctly identified  would have shown her balance as well as 
the cash withdrawal. JP Morgan has told us that even though cash withdrawals show the 
remaining balance, customers often request a balance slip immediately after making a cash 
withdrawal. But Mrs G clearly knew that a withdrawal slip included a balance, so Im not 
persuaded by JP Morgans argument here.
Ive looked in detail at the procedures which we requested from JP Morgan, to see what 
might have happened. Ive also noted that CCTV was only kept for 28 days. So it was no 
longer available when Mrs G received her statement and complained about the transaction. 
Ive considered whether there might somehow have been either a mistake by the cashier, or 
if the cashier took the money. 
First, Ive thought about whether it could be relevant that there was chaos in the branch, and 
that the cashier went to serve the customer with the screaming child when Mrs G had 
already entered her card. Mrs G couldnt remember whether she had put her PIN in when 
the cashier went away. If she had done, and the cashier asked her to enter it again when 
she came back, that would explain the two PIN entries. But there is only a 30 second gap 
between the two entries. Going away to serve another customer, doing so, and returning, 
would have taken the cashier longer than that. So I dont think going away to serve the other 
customer can explain what happened.
Ive also considered whether, when she returned to the till and started to deal with Mrs G, 
the cashier might have asked Mrs G to enter her PIN a second time, perhaps saying it hadnt 
worked. This could have been either a mistake, or attempted fraud. But in the context of this 
investigation, with the focus on the PIN being entered on two occasions close together, I 
think its likely that Mrs G would have remembered the cashier asking her to enter the PIN 
twice.
If something like this did happen and it was a mistake, it would have been discovered at the 
end of the day because the till wouldnt have balanced, and it would have been sorted out 
then.  And if the cashier took the money and didnt give Mrs G the first receipt (showing a 
withdrawal as well as the balance), he or she would have been taking a big risk. First, Mrs G 
would have noticed if the cashier had removed £600 when she was there. And as the branch 
was busy, it would also have been difficult for the cashier to remove money unseen after Mrs 
G had left. And although Mrs G didnt know the exact balance of her account, and many 
people dont, it was always possible that someone as alert as Mrs G would indeed have 
known exactly what her balance should have been, and would have complained 
straightaway.
So although I accept that Mrs G is genuine about her complaint, I cant see any scenario that 
would explain the computer evidence. That computer evidence shows that Mrs Gs genuine 
card was in the Post Office machine, and her correct PIN was entered twice at 11:44:01 for a 
£600 withdrawal and balance enquiry, and at 11:44:31 for a balance enquiry. I cant see any 
way around this technical information, so its not open to me to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman