DRN-2064815
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to advise her she could reduce the 
interest rate on her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs F took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2014. She took a three year fixed rate, which 
expired in 2017. When the fixed rate expired, Mrs Fs mortgage reverted to Nationwides 
standard variable rate, which it calls the standard mortgage rate (SMR). 
In 2019, Mrs F took a new rate. She took a tracker rate. Nationwide doesnt apply early 
repayment charges (ERCs) to its tracker rates.
Mrs F complained. She said she had decided not to take a fixed rate when the old one 
expired in 2017, because she was considering either reducing the mortgage balance or 
moving to a new property. So she didnt want to take the risk of an ERC. But she said she 
had spoken to Nationwide several times between 2017 and 2019 about her plans, and it had 
repeatedly failed to advise her that she could take a tracker rate without an ERC. If shed 
known about them she would have taken one  and saved, she estimated, around £10,000 
in interest in the meantime.
Nationwide didnt think that it had done anything wrong. It said it told Mrs F that her fixed rate 
was about to expire, and what new rates it had available. It said it reminded her that she was 
on the SMR and could request a new rate on the annual statement each year. It was up to 
Mrs F to request a new rate if she wanted one, and she hadnt done so.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly, so Mrs F asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Fs previous fixed rate came to an end in March 2017. Prior to that, the January 2017 
annual statement advised her that the fixed rate was coming to an end. And it told her how 
to get in touch if she wanted to take a new rate.
Nationwide wrote to her again in March 2017. It again told her that the fixed rate was coming 
to an end, and how to apply for a new one. And this letter also gave illustrations of some of 
the rates available. This was in the form of a table of fixed rates, and a separate table of 
tracker rates. The table showed that the tracker rates did not have ERCs.
Its not in dispute that Mrs F knew her fixed rate had expired. But her complaint is that she 
didnt want a fixed rate, because she was uncertain about repaying her mortgage or moving 
house and didnt want to risk an ERC. She says that Nationwide should have told her about 
the tracker rates without ERCs  and had it done so, she would have taken one.
As Ive said, Nationwide did tell her about ERC-free tracker rates, in the letter that it wrote to 
her when her fixed rate came to an end. Im satisfied that it did enough at that point. It gave 
Mrs F sufficient information in a clear, fair and not misleading format so that she could make 
up her own mind about what to do. There was no obligation for Nationwide to pro-actively 
advise her to take a particular rate. I therefore dont think it would be fair for Nationwide to 
retrospectively offer Mrs F a tracker rate to take effect from the end of the old fixed rate.
It was only in late 2019 that Mrs F did take a tracker rate. So next Ive considered whether 
there were any points between then and March 2017 when Nationwide could have fairly 
been expected to have advised her about the tracker rates.
Mrs F says that she spoke to Nationwide in 2017. It doesnt have any records of such a call.
The first recorded contact is in 2018. Ive listened to calls Mrs F had with Nationwide in 
March 2018 and again in September 2018. On both occasions, Mrs F contacted Nationwide 
to find out what the impact on her monthly payments would be if she either overpaid her 
mortgage, or moved house and borrowed more money.
In the March call, Mrs F said that she was aware she was on the SMR and was planning to 
take a new fixed rate once she had decided what to do. That was a reasonable position for 
her to have taken, and I wouldnt expect Nationwides call handler to advise her about 
alternative things she could have done instead when that wasnt what Mrs F was asking 
about.
In the September call, Mrs F first spoke to a generalist call handler, before being passed to a 
mortgage specialist. She again outlined that she was considering either staying in the 
property and reducing the mortgage balance, or moving house and borrowing more. She 
asked for illustrations of the effect of reducing the balance by either £80,000 or £100,000. 
The generalist call handler gave her those figures. There was also a discussion about the 
mortgage rate, and the call handler told Mrs F that she couldnt make overpayments above 
10% without an ERC if she took a new interest rate. This was true of fixed rates, but it wasnt 
true of variable rates. But the call handler also said she wasnt a specialist and offered to put 
Mrs F through to a specialist to discuss new interest rates. Mrs F agreed.
Once passed through to the specialist, Mrs F didnt ask about interest rates. She only asked 
about the impact of moving house and taking new borrowing. Its clear from the recording 
that her focus wasnt entirely on the conversation  she was also dealing with her child, and 
having a disagreement with another adult in the background  and was keen to bring the call 
to an end. 
So I do think the generalist call handler should have been clearer about what was available, 
and whether Mrs F could take a tracker rate without risking an ERC or impacting her 
possible plans. But she did also make clear that she wasnt an expert in that area, and 
offered to put Mrs F through to a specialist who would be better placed to answer her 
questions. Mrs F didnt ask the specialist about new interest rates. 
I dont think there was an obligation on the specialist to enquire in detail into Mrs Fs situation 
and give her advice about all the options open to her. He wasnt carrying out a holistic 
mortgage review; he was simply answering the questions Mrs F rang up to ask. And she 
didnt ask him about interest rates.
Mrs F also visited a branch in April 2019. Mrs F says she went in to ask about interest rates, 
and again Nationwide failed to advise her that it had ERC-free tracker rates. There isnt a 
recording of the conversation that took place then. Nor are there any notes. Nationwides 
adviser produced a disclosure document and a decision in principle for a possible larger mortgage on a new property, so I think its likely that was the focus of the discussion.
Finally in September 2019, Mrs F contacted Nationwide again. This time, she specifically 
asked about what interest rates would be available to her  she was advised about, and took 
a tracker rate. 
I do understand why Mrs F  having taken a tracker rate in 2019  wishes that she had taken 
one earlier in 2017 or 2018, which would have reduced her interest rate and her monthly 
payments. But Nationwide isnt required, under the rules of mortgage regulation, to invite her 
to apply for specific rates or carry out a detailed mortgage review  unless she asked for 
one. 
It should have let her know that her previous fixed rate was expiring and how to apply for a 
new rate, and it did that. It also told her that it offered both fixed and tracker rates, with and 
without ERCs, when it wrote to her at the end of the fixed rate. And it told her how to apply 
for a new rate if she decided she wanted one. After that, when Mrs F got in touch in 2018 
and 2019, it answered the questions she put to it and gave her the information she asked 
for. She wasnt given entirely accurate information on one call in 2018, but was advised that 
she needed to speak to a specialist to be sure  and didnt follow that up. 
The regulators rules require Nationwide to tell customers when their payments change, and 
in all respects to communicate in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. Nationwide told 
Mrs F what her payments and interest rate were, and how to change them if she wanted to 
do so. On balance, I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly, and so I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman