DRN-2740206
The complaint
Miss G has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Privilege Car 
Insurances service following a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2018 Miss Gs car was damaged while parked and unattended. She claimed 
on her policy and UKI deemed her car a total loss. The driver who damaged Miss Gs car 
wasnt ever identified. UKI settled Miss Gs claim for the loss of her car. Miss G didn't add 
another car to her policy and UKI cancelled it. It asked Miss G to pay the outstanding 
balance for the premium, which was around £591.
Miss G didn't think UKI had dealt with her fairly. She brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She thought UKI had dealt with the matter reasonably. Miss G 
didn't agree so her complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Miss Gs policy was intended to run from May 2018 to May 2019. She paid for it in monthly 
instalments. Her car was deemed a total loss in December 2018 and I understand she had a 
courtesy car until January 2019. It seems Miss G thinks that UKI should have cancelled her 
policy shortly afterwards and that, as she was no longer insuring a car, she shouldn't have to 
pay the remaining monthly premium instalments. But I think Miss G is mistaken.
It might help if I explain that, like all motor policies I'm aware of, Miss Gs policy says that if 
UKI pays a claim on it then she will have to pay the full years premium. That's the case even 
if the policy cancels before it was scheduled to come to an end. So, as UKI paid Miss G for 
the total loss of her car, she was required to pay UKI the outstanding balance of her 
premium, regardless that she didn't add another car to the policy between January and 
May 2019. And, after deducting the monthly instalments Miss G had already paid from the 
total amount due for the full year, Miss G still owed UKI around £591. So it told her thats the 
amount shed have to pay. I think that's fair.
Miss Gs told us that UKIs calculations of how much she owes isn't right. But she hasn't 
explained why she thinks the figures are wrong. And I can't see any mistakes in UKIs sums. 
So, without some evidence - beyond Miss Gs comments - that the figures are wrong, I think 
its reasonable that UKI asks Miss G to pay the balance of the premium which is outstanding. 
Miss Gs said that when she spoke with UKI it told her she'd only have to pay one more 
premium instalment, of around £88. The implication being it's not fair that its now asking her 
to pay £591. But Ive listened to the relevant call and I think Miss G might have 
misunderstood what UKI had told her. Miss G phoned UKI in February 2019. At that time, 
shed paid her premium instalment for January 2019 but hadn't made the February payment. 
So, when she made the call, shed only missed one monthly premium instalment, which was 
why UKI told her the amount outstanding was only one months payment. But it did explain 
to her that, as it had paid a claim on her policy, she would need to pay the remaining 
balance of the full premium. That is she would have to continue to pay her monthly 
instalments until the policy was scheduled to come to an end in May 2019. And in those 
circumstances I think its fair for UKI to charge Miss G the premium balance owing. 
Miss Gs also concerned that UKI has referred to her claim as being a fault incident when 
she wasn't in any way responsible for the damage to her car. But its common practice 
across the insurance industry for insurers to record any claim where they can't recover their 
outlay - that is what theyve paid to settle a claim - as a fault claim. The term fault, when 
describing an insurance claim, doesnt always mean a policyholder is responsible or to 
blame for an accident or an incident. It just means the insurer hasnt been able to recover all 
of its costs from someone else. So as UKI has had to pay out on Miss Gs claim, and it 
hasn't got all of the money its paid out back, its recorded it as a fault claim. And I think that's 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Also, while the complaint has been with us Miss Gs raised additional points, including a 
complaint that UKI hadn't pursued CCTV from the night her car was damaged. Shes also 
not happy that someone had bought her car and put it back on the road after UKI deemed it 
a total loss, but UKI is still referring to the claim as a fault incident. However, as those 
weren't points Miss G had put to UKI before complaining to us, and UKI hadn't responded to 
those issues, I don't intend to comment on them here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman