DRN-3947753
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) wrongly 
failed to register his account with them as satisfied following completion of his individual 
voluntary arrangement (IVA).
What happened
Mr W held a credit card with Barclaycard. He entered into an IVA, which he completed in 
April 2020. He says that his insolvency practitioner informed his creditors of the discharge of 
that IVA, at which point the debts should have been marked as satisfied. He says that this 
was done by every creditor other than Barclaycard.
Barclaycard says that it was not informed of the discharge of the IVA until Mr W emailed it in 
September 2022. It agrees that it failed to act upon this information promptly, but says that 
the debt was marked as satisfied in October 2022. It has offered Mr W £75 to reflect this 
delay of a month.
Mr W says that Barclaycard were informed at the same time as his other creditors. He has 
offered a screenshot of his portal with the insolvency practitioner in support of this. He also 
points out that all of his other creditors were provided with, and acted upon, the information. 
He argues that it is unlikely that Barclaycard were missed.
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard had treated Mr W fairly. They thought that the 
evidence supported the argument that it had not been informed of the end of the IVA until 
September 2022, and that £75 fairly reflected the delay in acting upon this.
Mr W did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter to Mr W from his insolvency practitioners did not say that they would write to 
creditors, and in fact suggested that he himself ought to write to the credit reference 
agencies to confirm the position. I think that, had he done so, the fact that Barclaycards 
account was not showing as satisfied would have come to light sooner.
The fundamental question here is when Barclaycard were informed that the IVA had ended. I 
have considered what Mr W says about the portal screenshot, but I do not think that it 
supports his argument. It shows that a report and notice of completion were generated. I 
have seen the report cover letter, which was addressed to him. As I have noted, it does not 
suggest that anyone else is being copied or that the relevant information has been forwarded 
to any other party.
Mr W argues that the fact that the other creditors have marked their accounts as satisfied 
supports his argument. It may be that something different happened in relation to these 
creditors  but I have to consider the individual circumstances of this complaint against 
Barclaycard. Having done so, while the evidence may show that other creditors were 
informed in a particular way, I havent seen that Barclaycard were notified in this way. 
Without any evidence to show that Barclaycard would have been aware of the completion of 
the IVA before Mr Ws email  it wouldnt be fair to expect them to have done anything 
differently here.
I note that, in an email chain provided by Mr W, the insolvency practitioners confirm that 
Barclaycard would have been informed of the completion in October 2022. There is nothing 
to suggest that it would have been automatically informed of this any sooner.  In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that the first time Barclaycard was 
informed of the IVA completion was Mr Ws email of September 2022. 
Barclaycard did then fail to act upon this information, as it did not recognise the importance 
of the attachments. This led to a delay of around a month. I agree that this caused additional 
distress and inconvenience to Mr W, but consider that the £75 already offered adequately 
reflects this. While I have considered carefully Mr Ws arguments about the financial impact 
this whole episode has had upon him, I do not think that this followed from any unfair or 
unreasonable actions by Barclaycard. 
My final decision
Barclaycard has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle this complaint. I think this offer is 
fair and so Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should now pay Mr W £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman