DRN-2725925
The complaint
Ms M complains Lloyds Bank plc carried out a credit search against her without her 
consent in July 2019.
 
What happened
Ms M says she looked at her credit file in mid-2020 and found Lloyds had run a 
mortgage related credit check against her in 2019. She says she didnt give Lloyds 
permission to do that and thinks it was carried out because shed made a complaint 
about Lloyds to this service about her mortgage application being declined in 2017.
Ms M says Lloyds had carried out previous unauthorised credit checks on two previous 
occasions.
Lloyds initially said it couldnt find any evidence of a check being carried out. It said its 
internal investigation found it had no records to show that a mortgage quotation had 
been done, it had had no reason to complete a search and it hadnt completed any 
mortgage quotations or mortgage related credit searches in relation to Ms M since 
2017.
Ms M sent Lloyds a screen shot of the credit file which showed Lloyds had carried out a 
search on 23 July 2019 and that the Application Type was Mortgage Quotation. Lloyds 
apologised to Ms M the search was showing and for the concern it had caused her, 
arranged for the credit search to be removed and sent Ms M compensation of £150.
Ms M told Lloyds shed accept that payment as an interim payment. But she didnt think 
Lloyds had gone far enough to address her concerns. She thought Lloyds had used her 
data without her permission in carrying out the credit check. She wanted an explanation of 
the lawful basis on which the check had been done, which Lloyds didnt give her. She 
brought her complaint to this service.
Lloyds said it wasnt able to provide us with an explanation of what had happened 
despite looking into things. Our investigator felt that Lloyds had done enough to put 
right what had happened, but Ms M disagreed with our investigators findings.
In response to our investigators view Ms M made the following key points:
Ms M doesnt think Lloyds has provided this service with all the information it has
about what had happened despite its assurances. She thinks, had it done so, it 
would have found evidence of a mortgage quotation having taken place since, in 
summary, there would have been a digital footprint.
Ms M is concerned there may have been fraudulent activity involving her details. 
She thinks Lloyds was relaxed in how it handled her complaint and failed to 
advise her how to protect her data or of the steps she says it would normally 
advise its customers to take to protect their data. She thinks this is because 
Lloyds knew about the circumstances surrounding the mortgage quotation and 
previous unauthorised checks.
Ms M thinks that Lloyds carried out this check to assess her eligibility for a 
mortgage so it could defend itself in relation to another complaint this service 
was investigating.
Ms M remains unhappy Lloyds has used her data in breach of data 
protection legislation.
And she is also unhappy Lloyds paid the £150 compensation it offered her into 
her bank account on the same day it wrote to her with its apology without letting 
her know it had done so. She doesnt think Lloyds response to her complaint 
reflects the upset, inconvenience and loss of confidence she says Lloyds 
behaviour has caused her.
I recently issued a provisional decision an extract of which follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say firstly that I appreciate how strongly Ms M feels about what happened, 
especially given the previous experiences shes explained shes had in her dealings 
with Lloyds.
I can only consider here the complaint Ms Ms made about the credit check that was 
carried out in July 2019 as that is what she complained to Lloyds about in July 2020, 
although I can take into consideration the wider circumstances in assessing the impact 
of what happened on Ms M as a result of her discovering the search on her credit file.
Ms M is understandably concerned Lloyds hasnt provided what she considers to be 
an adequate explanation about why the mortgage quotation was carried out. This 
service has investigated this further with Lloyds since our investigator issued their 
view.
Lloyds has now found that the credit check was triggered in relation to another 
complaint that Ms M had brought to this service - as Ms M thought it might have been. 
Lloyds has explained it was looking into its decision to decline her application for a 
mortgage in 2017 in response to this services request for further information. It wants 
to assure Ms M there hasnt been any fraudulent activity.
On the basis of the explanation Lloyds has provided and the evidence overall, I dont 
think Lloyds has acted fraudulently. And I agree with our investigator that Lloyds took 
appropriate steps to put things right by apologising and rectifying Ms Ms credit file. I 
agree too that it would have been better for Lloyds to have offered Ms M compensation 
to see if it was acceptable to her before making payment.
However, it is surprising Lloyds wasnt able to give Ms M the explanation for the credit 
search it has now been able to provide to this service. Had it done so, its quite 
possible Ms Ms complaint could have been avoided altogether. I think what happened 
had quite an effect on Ms M. She was clearly upset about what had happened, 
particularly bearing in mind this had happened before.
Bearing everything in mind, I intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint and to direct Lloyds 
to pay her £300 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered. This includes the £150 it has already paid to her, so Lloyds will have to pay 
an additional £150.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have both accepted my provisional decision. So, for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Lloyds has agreed to pay Ms M a total of £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused, to include the £150 it has already paid to her.
My final decision
I direct Lloyds Bank plc to pay to Ms M compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience 
inclusive of the £150 it has already paid to her, which means Lloyds Bank plc must pay her 
an additional £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman