DRN-3330404
The complaint
Company P has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. It isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under its motor insurance policy and the final settlement paid. 
What happened
Company P entered into a lease agreement for its new car in March 2021 for a period of 48 
months. And it took out a motor insurance policy through Aviva for the car. Unfortunately, the 
car was involved in an accident in October 2021. Aviva looked into the claim and wrote the 
car off and as the car was leased Aviva paid the lease company the remaining balance on 
the finance. 
P complained to Aviva as it thought it lost out because it had paid a large deposit or 
instalment up front. And it thinks Aviva should refund this to Company P in addition to what 
Aviva paid the lease provider. But Aviva didnt agree so P complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Company P and upheld the complaint. He thought that 
it was fair for Aviva to pay a proportion of the deposit P paid based on how much of the 
agreement was left at the time of claim, plus 8% simple interest and £100 compensation. 
P accepted the position outlined but Aviva didnt agree, so the matter has been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld. Ive 
focussed on whether it was fair for Aviva to only pay the remaining finance on Ps car in this 
decision. But I dont think Aviva acted fairly, Ill explain why. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The policy limited Avivas liability to what was still remaining on the lease agreement. So, 
although the market value of Ps car was more than the amount remaining on the finance 
Aviva didnt have to pay the full market value of the car under the terms of the policy. But as 
Aviva is aware this Service always looks at whether insurers apply terms fairly and in the 
particular circumstances of this case I dont think it has.  
Company P took out a market value insurance policy and although Aviva can limit its outlay 
here I think this could lead to an unfair outcome in this case. I say this as when Company P 
took out the lease agreement it paid a large sum upfront, which is common when cars are 
leased, and so there is the potential for P to lose out when the car was written off early in 
circumstances like this  as the initial payment is non-refundable. And in this case Company 
P paid an additional seven months of lease up front. 
Company P had to pay a fixed amount for the lease hire over the lease period. So the size of 
the deposit has a direct impact on the amount that P had to pay in monthly payments during 
the lease term. Had P paid a smaller upfront payment it wouldve had to pay more in monthly 
repayments over the lease term. This would also mean that P wouldve paid less towards the 
total amount owed over the total lease when the car was stolen. 
In effect, this means that Aviva has had to pay less because of the fact that Company P paid 
a larger upfront payment. As such, I think a strict application of the above term would be 
unfair in the circumstances of this particular case, especially as the loss is within the limit of 
what would have been paid if the full market value of the car was paid following the claim.
Given this I think a fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for Aviva to pay Company P a 
proportionate amount of the deposit based on how long was still remaining on the lease 
agreement when the car was stolen. So Im in agreement with our investigator and I think 
Aviva should pay the difference between what Company P actually paid (taking into account 
the initial upfront payment) and the pro-rata cost of what the lease wouldve cost Company P 
up to the date of the incident. 
Ultimately, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think Avivas application of the policy term 
was unfair in this particular case. And as our investigator outlined Company Ps lease was 
due to run for 48 months, but had only run for seven months at the point of claim so it seems 
fair for Aviva to pay Company P a pro-rata refund of the initial payment so that it only pays 
for the portion of lease used. And £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. And I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to:
pay Company P a pro-rata refund of the initial upfront payment so that it only pays 
the portion of the lease that it used (the first seven months);
adding 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement;
and £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman