DRN-2163020
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (CFS) unfairly recorded a default 
about his account with credit reference agencies. He also complains about poor service 
provided by Creation Financial Services Limited.
Mr B is represented by Miss B.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with CFS. He says the account fell into arrears in January 
2018. He made an arrangement with CFS and started to make the agreed payments. He 
says his income subsequently fell, and CFS agreed to freeze the interest on the account. But 
he says CFS recorded a default with credit reference agencies in August 2018.
Mr B says the default has been recorded unfairly. He says he didnt receive any default 
notice or other letters. And he says that despite making several requests for statements, 
CFS has failed to provide these to him. He complained to CFS.
CFS investigated his complaint. It said that after his account went into arrears the agreement 
between it and Mr B ended. This meant online access was no longer available on the 
account. It agreed it hadnt sent him a default notice. So, it said it would remove the default 
and offered to pay him £150 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hed experienced.
Mr B didnt accept this offer. He thought he should get more compensation. He said hed 
been unable to obtain finance because of the default thatd been registered. So, he referred 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said a default could be registered when 
arrears had built up to an unacceptable level. Although he didnt think Mr B couldve cleared 
the arrears on his account within six months, CFS hadnt sent him a default notice. And it 
had agreed to remove the default it had registered. Our investigator thought this was fair and 
reasonable.
Our investigator also considered what Mr B had said about the level of compensation hed 
been offered. He said hed looked at Mr Bs credit file and he wasnt persuaded the 
registration of the default was the sole reason why Mr B hadnt been able to obtain finance. 
So, he thought that CFSs offer to pay him £150 by way of compensation was fair and 
reasonable. 
Our investigator also considered the poor service Mr B had received. Hed asked for 
statements on several occasions, but these hadnt been provided and his calls hadnt been 
returned. So, our investigator upheld this part of Mr Bs complaint and said CFS should pay 
a further £100 by way of compensation.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the default still hadnt been removed. He also thought £100 
wasnt enough for the time hed had to spend trying to get things resolved. 
Because Mr B didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B experienced financial difficulties and he asked CFS to assist him. When a customer 
falls into financial difficulties wed expect the business to treat him sympathetically and 
positively. So, Ive considered the actions CFS took in this case.
Mr B says CFS agreed a repayment plan with him. He says when his income fell CFS 
agreed to freeze the interest on his account. 
CFS acknowledges it agreed a repayment plan with Mr B. But it says this was after it had 
made a business decision in March 2018 to end the agreement with him because hed failed 
to make his payments on time. It says when it ended the agreement it placed a specific block 
on his account because of the financial information hed provided. And it says thats why 
further interest and charges werent applied.
Ive looked at the statements for Mr Bs account. Ive noted CFS didnt apply any fees or 
interest after February 2018. So, I think this supports what CFS says about placing a specific 
block on his account. Ive also noted, after May 2018, Mr B started to make a payment of 
£100 each month. I think this is the repayment plan hes referring to. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has published Principles for the reporting of 
arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies. These state that where 
there is an arrangement, such as that agreed with Mr B, a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of the arrangement are broken. The credit report will show that 
an arrangement is in place.
So, because Mr B had made an arrangement and was keeping to its terms, CFS shouldnt 
have recorded a default.  CFS has now accepted it shouldnt have recorded a default. It says 
it shouldve issued a default notice first and it didnt do that.  
In these circumstances, Id expect CFS to remove the default it registered. It did tell Mr B it 
would do that. But Mr B says this still hasnt been done. Ill comment further about this later 
in this decision.
Mr B says because the default was registered, hes been unable to obtain credit. And hes 
provided evidence to support the fact that a credit application was declined.
Its important to note that different lenders approach the provision of credit in different ways. 
In the evidence hes provided to our service Mr B says the lender has referred to 
unsupportive information at credit reference agencies and he says this is directly related to 
the default CFS had registered. 
Ive looked at the credit file report Mr B has provided. I can see, as our investigator said, 
there is other adverse information recorded on his credit file. And, as Ive mentioned above 
CFS correctly recorded there was an arrangement in place for his account with it. So, 
although I agree that the default CFS had recorded didnt help his application for finance, Im 
not persuaded that it was only because of this information that his application for finance 
was declined. And, in these circumstances, I dont think CFS should have to compensate 
him because the credit application was declined.Mr B says the compensation hes been offered is not enough and he says CFS should be 
fined. But, its not our role to punish or fine a financial firm where it makes errors. Our role is 
to consider the action the firm took to try to put things right. 
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied CFS agreed to remove the default. And its 
offered to pay Mr B £150 by way of compensation for what happened when it registered the 
default without issuing a default notice before it did this.  I agree with our investigator that 
£150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr B 
experienced as a result of CFS not having issued a default notice before registering the 
default.
CFS should now make arrangements to pay this money (£150) to Mr B.
Mr B says CFS still hasnt removed the default from his credit file and hes provided us with 
some information from the credit reference agency where CFS has said the information 
recorded is correct and should remain unchanged. 
Id just point out that whilst CFS agreed to remove the default, it didnt agree to remove any 
other information it had recorded at credit reference agencies about the account. It is the 
case that Mr B had made an arrangement with CFS which it correctly recorded with credit 
reference agencies. And, as our investigator pointed out, despite the fact that Mr B was 
making payments in line with the arrangement, there were still significant arrears on the 
account.
CFS told our service in July 2020 it had asked for the default to be removed but it could take 
up to 28 days to complete this process. And, it confirmed to us on 26 October 2020 itd 
instructed its team to put this through again, if it hadnt already been completed. CFS also 
explained to our service that due to current circumstances credit reference agencies are 
experiencing some delays. So, that might explain why the credit file hadnt been updated.
I can see why there might have been delays with updating credit reference agency records. 
Despite this, I wouldve expected the default to have been removed by this stage. I can see 
there has been some recent progress with amending the credit reference agency 
information. But, if it hasnt done so already, CFS should take immediate steps to ensure 
that it removes the default its registered at credit reference agencies about Mr Bs account.
Ive also considered what Mr B has told us about the poor service hes received. I can 
understand why CFS might not have been able to provide online access to statements after 
the account fell into arrears and the arrangement was put in place. But I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect CFS to provide Mr B with ongoing information about the state of his 
account including details of payments and the outstanding balance. He says hes asked for 
this information on several occasions. But he says CFS hasnt provided the information he 
requested.
Mr B has told us hes received a statement in July 2020. CFS says it cant automatically 
issue this information to Mr B every month. It says it will do it upon request. 
As mentioned above, I think its reasonable for Mr B to expect to get information about his 
account. I dont think CFSs failure to send him regular statements meant that he couldnt 
make payments under the arrangement. But Ive taken what Mr B has told us about CFSs 
failure to send him information, about his payment history and outstanding balance, when he 
asked it to, into account when determining whats fair and reasonable compensation in this 
case.Having considered everything here, I agree with what our investigator said. In addition to 
removing the default and paying £150 by way of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, CFS should pay Mr B a further £100 by way of compensation for the poor 
service hes received. I think thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Creation Financial Services 
Limited. 
I now require Creation Financial Services Limited to:
take immediate steps to remove the default it registered with credit reference 
agencies about Mr Bs account; and
pay Mr B £250 (in total) for the poor service he received and for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman