DRN-3436357
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) declined a claim he 
made on his home insurance policy for a stolen bicycle.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr G called the police to report a break in at his property. He reported various 
items were stolen including an expensive bicycle. Mr G also put a claim in with his insurer, 
Hiscox, as he had cover specifically for the bicycle. Initially he told police that a former tenant 
could have used a spare key  but the lettings agent later confirmed that all keys were 
accounted for. The crime scene investigator, according to Mr G, said the most likely way 
entry had been gained was through a method known as lock slipping.
Hiscox declined the claim, saying there was no evidence of forced or violent entry to Mr Gs 
property  which was one of the policys exclusions. It also said the police report didnt make 
any reference to lock slipping. Mr G raised a complaint but Hiscox maintained its position  
so he referred things to us for review.
An investigator here considered everything and didnt think Hiscox had acted fairly by 
declining the claim. In his view, the lock slipping method seemed the most likely way the 
thieves had got in. He also referenced the courts interpretation of forced or violent entry as 
entering a property in a way that was not customary  which he thought was the case here, 
though there was no visible damage. 
Hiscox didnt agree, and said that it didnt think entry had been gained both forcefully and 
violently  as it believed there would be some damage evident if that had been the case. The 
insurer also pointed to the policy wording that required normal security protections to be fully 
operative and in force for the claim to be covered. As Mr G hadnt deadbolted one of his 
doors Hiscox thought that term hadnt been satisfied. The investigator maintained his view 
that the use of force and violence wouldnt necessarily cause damage. He also thought 
normal security measures were in place, as both doors were shut and locked at the time.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint and for much the same reasons as the 
investigator gave.
Hiscox has referenced another decision, where the ombudsman said evidence of damage 
would have been expected if there had been a violent entry in the circumstances of that 
case. Ombudsmens decisions are made on the individual facts of a particular complaint. 
They cant set precedence, unlike court rulings. The courts have considered the question of 
what constitutes forced and violent entry in a number of cases  and Ive reviewed the 
relevant case law. One important judgement said both force and violence could be involved 
where entry was gained by the exercise of force in a manner that was not customary in 
order to overcome the resistance of the usual fastenings and protections in the premises. 
Our approach is in line with the courts, and means that if a thief has used a picklock or some 
other instrument to unlock a door wed usually consider that to be violent  even if it 
resulted in no physical damage. Thats because a level of force over and above what would 
usually be necessary has been used. Ive applied that approach to the facts of this case.
The insurer has said there are other equally plausible scenarios, apart from lock slipping, 
that could account for the theft  such as the door to the property being unlocked at the time 
of the incident. But I find it less likely that both front doors, which lock automatically when 
shut, were left open by Mr G. I also find its less likely, given he moved into the property in 
2018, that a previous tenant waited that long before attempting re-entry with a retained key. 
In the circumstances I see no reason to doubt Mr Gs recollection of what the crime scene 
investigator told him  particularly as the types of locks on his doors are more susceptible to 
being slipped. That method wouldnt usually cause damage to the door either. 
As the term covering forced and violent entry is an exclusion in the policy, it would be for 
the insurer to show it applies. I appreciate the terms try to place the onus back onto the 
policyholder  but I consider Mr G has shown as far as he reasonably can that an insured 
event took place. In this case, I dont agree there are other equally plausible explanations. 
Going by what the police have said, Im satisfied there was a theft  and I find the lock being 
slipped to be the most likely way entry was gained. I deem that qualifies as forced and 
violent entry, as it was gained by a manner not customary and with force above what was 
usually necessary. So I dont consider that exclusion has been fairly applied by Hiscox in the 
circumstances. 
Hiscox has said the deadbolt not being used at the time of the theft meant normal security 
protections werent fully operative. The terms dont elaborate on what the insurer considers 
to be normal security measures  Ive only seen mention of the dwelling needing to be built 
of brick, stone or concrete and roofed with slates or tiles. Mr G wasnt asked about the 
security measures at the property either, before the risk was accepted, and there werent 
any endorsements on the policy stipulating which locks must be used. So Ive applied my 
own judgement of what I consider would amount to normal security measures, and 
reasonable care, in the circumstances. 
Having thought about it carefully, on balance I find that two doors, each locked, amounted to 
a normal level of security and reasonable care in the circumstances. Therefore Hiscox, to my 
mind, hasnt sufficiently established that exclusion should fairly apply. The deadbolt was also 
on the inside door, and once through the first door I doubt the thief would have been 
deterred by it, even if it was engaged. Thats because the inside door was mostly glass 
panels with a wood frame, so it could have been quickly breached  whilst the thief remained 
out of public view. So Im not persuaded it being locked would have prevented the loss here.  
I cant see any other reason why the claim wouldnt be covered by the policy, and Hiscox 
hasnt made that argument. So, for the reasons given above, Ive decided Hiscox unfairly 
declined Mr Gs claim  and so the insurer should now settle it in line with the remaining 
terms. To compensate Mr G for the delay in paying out on the claim, Hiscox should add 8% 
simple interest yearly onto any settlement amount. That interest should be calculated from 
the date the claim was first raised, until payment is made. If Hiscox considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell  
Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
Mr final decision is I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Hiscox Insurance Company Limited, and 
direct the insurer to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms  and pay interest on the 
settlement amount as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman