DRN-2044474
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his request for a new
account card.
What happened
Mr K told Nationwide on 26 November 2019 that his account card had been stolen. He says
he contacted Nationwide again as he didn't receive the account card and says he was
without it for nearly three months. Mr K says he was caused inconvenience and had to
attend a branch to withdraw money. He says he tried to set up an emergency transfer to
another account but says Nationwide didn't transfer the money. Mr K says the compensation 
offer of £40 isn't enough and should be £300.
Nationwide says it ordered a new card on 26 November 2019 and told Mr K he should
receive it within five working days. It says Mr K contacted it again on 5 December 2019 as
he hadn't received it, and so it ordered another card. Nationwide says Mr K told it on 17
December 2019 the card hadn't arrived and ordered a new card to be sent to a branch which 
Mr K collected on 3 January 2020. It accepts it didn't process the transfer as it should and 
has apologised and offered Mr K £40 compensation.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and says he should be paid £450 compensation. Our
investigator upheld Mr K's complaint and thought Nationwide could have done more to help
him at an earlier stage. The investigator thought Nationwide ought to have realised there
was a problem when Mr K called on 5 December 2019 and could have arranged for the new
card to be sent to its branch as there had been a similar issue in the past. The investigator
recommended Nationwide increase its compensation offer to £200 as he thought Mr K had
been caused inconvenience and more could have been done to help him.
Mr K doesn't agree with that view and neither does Nationwide. Nationwide says Mr K could
still withdraw money in branch and says it's not its usual policy to arrange for cards to be
collected in branch.
My Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said that I thought Nationwide had made a fair 
reasonable compensation offer. 
I said I could see that Nationwide ordered a new card for Mr K when he called it on 26 
November 2019. I appreciated there may have been some confusion about how long that 
would take. But I thought the key point was that Mr K didn't receive it, and so he called 
Nationwide again on 5 December 2019. I didn't think at that point Nationwide acted unfairly 
by ordering a second card. I said that Nationwide wasn't responsible for the delivery of mail, 
so I couldn't fairly hold it responsible for Mr K not receiving the account cards. That is 
something Mr K will need to take up with the business that delivers the mail.I appreciated the investigator's view that Nationwide could have arranged on the second call
for the card to be sent to its branch. But I was satisfied at that stage only one card had been
sent and Nationwide acted reasonably by cancelling the first card and ordering a new card.
I was also satisfied that when Mr K told Nationwide he had still not received the new card, it
acted fairly by arranging the new card to be sent to a branch.
I accepted that Mr K was caused inconvenience by not having the account card but I couldn't 
fairly hold Nationwide responsible for that. And I didn't think it ought to have taken previous 
address issues into account unless Mr K told it there was a specific problem that would 
prevent him from receiving his mail. I also don't think Mr K was without the card for nearly 
three months as he told us, and find that it took just over one month for him to have the new 
card and to receive Nationwide's response to his complaint.
I thought there wasn't any doubt Nationwide made a mistake by not processing the transfer 
as it said it would. I was sure that would have caused Mr K inconvenience. But was satisfied 
that Nationwide  fairly apologised for that mistake and offered what I thought was a fair and
reasonable offer of £40 compensation. I thought that offer reflected the level of Nationwide's
mistake and that Mr K didn't suffer any financial loss as a result of it.
I said I was satisfied that during the time Mr K was without his account card he was still able 
to make cash withdrawals from his account. And Mr K  told us he had another account which 
I thought it likely he was able to use in this period. I said that as I couldn't see any credits to 
his Nationwide account after 3 December 2019. And he was close to his overdraft limit in 
any event, so wouldn't have been able to have withdrawn much more money from his 
account even if the account card had arrived in December 2019.
Overall my provisional view was that Nationwide made a fair and reasonable offer of
compensation for not completing the transfer when it said it would. But I thought it was not
responsible for the mail problems and offered a reasonable alternative, to send the card to a
branch, at an appropriate and reasonable time.
Nether side had replied to my provisional view
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. Mr K's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman