DRN-3573323
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold a Select Account (SA) sometime before 2001 by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R says that she was not made aware that a fee free account was available when she 
took out the SA.
Lloyds says that Mrs R knew she had a choice and chose to take out the SA.
The exact date of the SA sale is not known. The SA wasnt available from Lloyds before 
1997, and both parties agree Mrs R had one in 2001. So, the sale must have taken place 
between 1997 and 2001.
I wasnt present in the sale, so I cant know what was said over 20 years ago. I can only look 
at the evidence available today.
Both parties agree that Mrs R opened her account with Lloyds in 1990. So, she must have 
held a fee free account for seven years before the SA. And fee free accounts were widely 
available and advertised from Lloyds and other financial institutions throughout the period of 
the sale. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs R knew she had a choice about whether to 
upgrade her account to a SA and she chose to do so.
As our adjudicator said, there isnt any evidence to suggest that Mrs R was pressurised or 
misled into taking out the SA or that it was unsuitable for Mrs R. And Mrs R has said that she 
was aware she had it and was paying for it.
There were many benefits of the SA which Mrs R couldve used. The main benefit prior to 
2001 was the car breakdown service and Mrs R says she had a car from about 1986. So, I 
can see why it may have been of interest to her.
She also couldve closed the account at any time but didnt.
So, although I know that Mrs R will be disappointed, in my view, I think its more likely than 
not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the SA to Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman