DRN-2973454
The complaint
I Ltd, represented by Mr B, complained because Advanced Payment Solutions (APS) 
refused to refund it for a transaction which Mr B said he didnt make.
What happened
I Ltd is a micro-enterprise. Mr B is the sole director.
On 24 October 2020, Mr B rang APS just after 4am and reported his card stolen. He said he 
didnt have his wallet or any of his cards, as they had been stolen. There was a transaction 
for £2,740 timed at 12.42am that morning, which Mr B said he didnt authorise.
He told APS that hed just woken up and noticed he didnt have his wallet or any of his bank 
cards. He said theyd been stolen the previous night when hed been out. He thought his 
drinks had been drugged because he couldnt remember anything, including how he got 
home. Mr B said he hadnt kept a written record of his PIN. 
APS investigated but held I Ltd liable for the transaction. Mr B complained, and wanted to 
know how APS had reached this decision, when the transaction had been made over 100 
miles from where hed been. He asked APS for the full address, invoice number or receipt 
for the disputed transaction.
In its final response, APS said that the card had been present and the correct PIN had been 
used for the transaction. It said that although Mr B had said he thought hed been drugged at 
the time, computer records show that Mr B had accessed online banking immediately before 
and after the transaction. So Mr B had been aware of the transaction, and APS held I Ltd 
liable on the basis of gross negligence for disclosing his PIN. APS also said it would be 
happy to supply evidence if the police wanted to investigate.
I Ltd, represented by Mr B, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Mr B told our  investigator hed been shopping and drinking on 23 October. The next 
morning he woke at home and was sick. He had his wallet and cards, but his phone had 
been broken. Mr B said he had a drugs test carried out at work, and it had been positive for 
a number of drugs and he believed his drinks had been drugged. 
Our investigator didnt uphold I Ltds complaint. She said that Mr B had said he hadnt written 
down his PIN. Nor had he used the card in the pub, so it wasnt likely someone had seen the 
PIN by looking over his shoulder. And there had been no failed PIN attempts. The 
investigator pointed out that Mr Bs PIN had been changed a few months earlier, when Mr B 
had told APS there had been a fraud against his account  so it wasnt likely that the PIN 
had been easily guessed. She considered that Mr B had authorised the disputed transaction.
I Ltd, represented by Mr B, didnt accept this. Mr B said he hadnt given anyone authority to 
make the payment. He said he wanted this service to prove how the transaction happened. 
He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Mr B said he wanted this service to prove how the disputed transaction happened. But 
the role of this service isnt to prove how something happened. Its to look at all the available 
evidence, and decide whats most likely to have happened, taking into account all the 
circumstances of the case.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in October 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, APS) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the evidence showing that I 
Ltds genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payment 
was authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence. So Ive gone on to consider who authorised the disputed transaction.
Who authorised the disputed transaction
The computer evidence shows, among other things, that:
- the genuine card was used for the disputed transaction, and that it was physically 
present at the time. 
- the correct PIN was used, and there were no prior failed PIN attempts. Mr B told both 
APS and this service that he hadnt written down his PIN. Mr B hadnt requested a 
PIN reminder by text, and there had been no opportunity for a fraudster to have 
looked over Mr Bs shoulder when he was carrying out any previous transaction 
immediately before the disputed one. There are 10,000 possible combinations of a 
four-digit PIN number, so it couldnt have been guessed by anyone who had stolen 
the card.
I consider that this evidence means its much more likely than not that Mr B carried out the 
transaction himself, or let someone else use I Ltds card and provided the PIN number. I Ltd 
has only one director, so there was no-one else authorised to use its  account.
But Ive gone on to look at other factors too.
There were nine mobile banking logins between 11.20 pm on 23 October and 1.29 am on 24 
October. The disputed transaction took place at 12.42am so whoever logged in all those 
times would have known about the transaction. There were two more mobile banking logins 
at 4.03am and 4.20am.  All of these logins used a device confirmed as Mr Bs. Mr Bs phone 
hadnt been stolen, and he said he hadnt given out his mobile details. Mr Bs app could only 
be accessed by fingerprint, facial recognition or password. This doesnt fit well with Mr Bs 
version of events, where he said he left the pub around 11pm on 23 October and didnt 
remember anything else until he woke the next day. After the disputed transaction, I Ltds account still had over £1,000 in it. I find its most 
unlikely that any fraudster who had the genuine card and knew the correct PIN would have 
stopped after the £2,740.50 withdrawal  theyd have gone on to empty the account.
Ive also borne in mind that Mr Bs account of what happened has varied. When he reported 
the disputed transaction to APS, he told APS that when he woke up on 24 October, hed 
noticed that his wallet and all his bank cards had been stolen. But he told this service that 
when he woke up that day, he still had his wallet in one of his bags, with all his cards too. 
Taking all of these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr B carried 
out the disputed transaction himself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman