DRN-2822990
The complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) gave him 
misleading information about a credit card account transfer.
What happened
Mr H says he asked AESEL if it could transfer a credit balance to his bank account which he 
says it said it could. He says based on that information he took out a cash transfer from a 
different credit card provider and transferred the money to his AESEL account. Mr H says he 
was then told AESEL wouldnt transfer the money to his bank account and for money 
laundering reasons. He says he has paid over £373 in a fee to transfer the money and would 
like AESEL to transfer the money. Mr H says his actions were legal and says he was misled.
AESEL says it reviewed Mr Hs online conversation with it and says it didnt mislead him. It 
says Mr H asked if he had a credit balance what were his options. AESEL says it wasnt 
asked what the position would be to deliberately put an account in credit by performing a 
balance transfer. It also says it can only return an overpayment to source.
Mr H says he has now been able to use the credit balance and brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it and didnt think it our role to comment on AESELs process 
and that it was up to it to decide how to deal with credit balances. The investigator didnt 
think Mr H had been misled in the online conversation.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says the money from his other credit card was traceable 
and says AESEL ought to have explained its policy and conditions when he made contact 
with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
We are not AESELs regulator and so its not our role to tell it what its policy and procedures 
are on this type of issue. I am sure Mr H will appreciate that AESEL is subject to regulatory 
requirements and so is entitled to decide how it meets those requirements. It follows that I 
cant comment on what Mr H says about the traceability of the payment into his AESEL 
account or the legality of his actions.
The key issue here is the online conversation between Mr H and AESEL. I have looked 
carefully at it and can see Mr H says, If I have a credit balance on my credit card what are 
the options to transfer the money, so the balance is back to zero and AESEL replies and 
says We have the option to transfer the credit balance in your bank account. Im satisfied 
that Mr H didnt ask about what he intended to do, namely transfer money from credit card to 
another and then transfer the money to his bank account. I also think it likely that the AESEL 
advisor was answering a fairly generic question and it likely the advisor thought Mr H was 
referring to the usual ways a credit card account becomes in credit, by an overpayment or a 
refund. So, I dont think AESEL misled Mr H or gave him incorrect information and I also 
think Mr H ought to have been clear about what he was asking and why.
Im satisfied that Mr H made the decision to transfer the money onto his AESEL account and 
that it was entitled to tell Mr H that it wouldnt transfer the money to his bank account but 
would sent it back to its origin. I cant fairly hold AESEL responsible for the cost in those 
circumstances. In any event Mr H has told us he was able to use the money.
Overall, I find AESEL dealt fairly Mr Hs complaint and didnt make a mistake. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman