DRN-3233893
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, accessed his account 
and moved funds from his account without authorisation.
What happened
Mr B noticed that Barclays had accessed his credit account and moved funds without his 
authorisation. Mr B wasnt happy about this and felt that a security breach may have 
occurred, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Bs complaint. They apologised to Mr B for any trouble or upset he 
may have incurred and explained to Mr B that a credit balance refund had been incorrectly 
processed to his account, by error, which had then been corrected. Barclays also confirmed 
to Mr B that there hadnt been any form of security breach on his account. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Barclays response to     
Mr Bs complaint  including the apology and the explanation of events  was already a fair 
resolution for what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr B must have been concerned to have noticed significant money 
movements from his Barclays accounts, which he hadnt himself authorised.
Barclays have explained that Mr B received a large reimbursement into his credit account 
which left his account with a credit balance of approximately £3,000. In such circumstances, 
Barclays policy is to transfer that credit balance to their customers current account, and this 
is what they did. However, a further amount of approximately £4,000 was credited to Mr Bs 
account by mistake. Barclays have confirmed that this was a case of human error which, 
when it was recognised, was corrected.
This explanation seems reasonable to me, and it would be expected that if Barclays had 
moved money into or out of an account in error that they would take the steps necessary to 
correct that error and return the account to the position that it should be in.
Mr B has asked how Barclays staff could access his account without him being present to 
provide his passwords and security information. However, while Barclays, as the account 
administrators, do require the provision of passwords and security information when 
interacting with people outside of Barclays  such as Mr B  to ensure that the person that 
theyre speaking with is authorised to access the account, it isnt the case that Barclays 
themselves need this information to access an account administered by them.
Im aware that Mr B feels that because Barclays have accessed his account that there has 
been a security breach on his account. But a bank is permitted to access the accounts of its 
customers to perform administrative actions, such as the ones that Barclays undertook in 
this instance. Furthermore, I havent seen anything to suggest that anyone other than 
Barclays staff members accessed Mr Bs account, and as such Im satisfied that no security 
breach occurred in this instance.
Mr B is also unhappy that he didnt receive the initial complaint response letter that Barclays 
sent and that he had to request for this letter to be resent. But Barclays have been able to 
demonstrate that they did send their complaint response to the address they hold for Mr B, 
which I note is the address that Mr B has himself provided to this service. As such, it seems 
plausible that the reason Mr B didnt receive the initial complaint response letter was for 
reasons outside of Barclays control, such as the possible non-delivery of the letter by the 
postal service, for which I dont feel I can reasonably hold Barclays accountable.
Finally, Mr B doesnt feel that Barclays responded to the secure messages that he sent to 
Barclays in a timely manner. I can appreciate how this must have been frustrating for Mr B, 
but it must be recognised that the events under consideration here took place at a time when 
Covid-19 was having a significant impact, both on society as a whole, but also on 
businesses such as Barclays, who often had to deal with shortages of available staff as well 
as large scale changes in working practices necessitated by the pandemic.
Because of this, while I acknowledge that Mr B didnt receive responses to his secure 
messages in as timely a manner as would be usually expected, I feel that consideration has 
to be given to the impact of Covid-19 on Barclays efficiency at that time, and as such I dont 
feel that any form of compensation is warranted because of this point in this instance.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr B here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I realise this might 
not be the outcome that Mr B wanted, but I hope he can understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman