DRN-4032529
The complaint
Complaint 
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Wakam wont provide a partial refund for the period 
they were dually insured. Mr and Mrs M held a home insurance policy with Wakam,. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M discovered that after buying a home insurance policy with Wakam, it 
continued paying for a home insurance policy with another insurer. 
Mr and Mrs M asked Wakam to provide a refund of 50% of the premium it paid - and it has 
asked the other insurer to do the same. 
Wakam didnt agree. So Mr and Mrs M asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld and Wakam should provide 
a refund of 50% of the premium for the period they were dually insured. And she thought 
Wakam should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its decision.
Wakam didnt agree. In summary it says just because other insurers agree to this, it doesnt 
mean it should. If it had received a claim, it would have paid it in full as it wouldnt have been 
aware of the dual insurance. As a business, there are costs associated with setting up and 
running a policy so its unfair to expect it to provide a refund due to the customers error. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to dual insurance has been clearly set out by the Investigator and so I dont; 
intend to repeat it word for word in my decision. There is a distinction between indemnity 
policies and benefit policies. With indemnity policies where something has been lost or 
damaged, and needs replacing or repairing, the insurer will pay out an amount for the loss 
and damages the consumer has suffered in order to put them back in the position they were 
in prior to the event. And it usually can only be put right once by the insurer. With benefit 
policies, if something goes wrong  i.e. the consumer loses a limb - theyll pay out a fixed 
amount (or benefit) to the consumer. Generally, a policyholder can have multiple benefit 
policies as they can benefit from them more than once.
Its understandable that policyholders wont want to pay for two policies when they can only 
be indemnified once. And in general, our position is that its reasonable for them to be put in 
a position where theyve paid one premium to be covered once. 
If there was no mis-sale or other business mistake, and it was purely a case of accidental 
dual insurance due to a mistake by the policyholder, wed expect normal industry practice to 
be followed: thats for both businesses to refund 50% of their respective premiums. Then the 
policyholder is put back in a reasonable position  having effectively paid one premium to be 
covered once. This is because, in the event of a claim, both insurers would have 50% liability 
for it  so it follows they should receive 50% of the premium to match the risk theyre taking. 
Although neither business has made a mistake in this situation, its not fair for them to keep 
more than 50% of the premium when theyre not liable for more than 50% of the risk.
So in line with our approach as to what is fair and reasonable, Im upholding this complaint in 
line with the Investigators recommendations. 
As Wakam didnt make a mistake in causing the dual insurance, we wouldnt expect it to pay 
compensation for this. But where an insurer refuses to offer a refund when dual insurance 
has been discovered, this decision has caused Mr and Mrs M distress and inconvenience. 
So I think Wakam should pay them £100 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Wakam to do the following:
Arrange for a refund of 50% of the premium Mr and Mrs M paid for the duration they 
were dually insured. 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
decision to refuse a refund has caused. 
Wakam must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs 
M accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman