DRN-2485337
The complaint
Mr D complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
During 2017 Mr D was given three instalment loans by Lending Stream:
Loan Amount Date lent Repayment term
1 £600 21.7.17 6 months
2 £400 3.10.17 6 months
3 £400 7.10.17 6 months
  
Whilst some repayments were made to Loan 1, Mr D was unable to maintain repayments 
shortly after loan 3 had been given and the loans fell into default. Mr D feels that Lending 
Stream didnt carry out adequate checks to establish that the loans were affordable to him 
and that, if it had done so, it wouldve seen that he had other loans and gambling debts at 
the time - which meant that he was unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to these 
loans.
Mr D feels that, in these circumstances, he should be required to repay only the principal 
amounts originally borrowed - but not the interest and fees that applied to the loans.
Lending Stream didnt agree. It considered that it did undertake appropriate checks when the 
loans were granted and had satisfied itself that the loans were affordable to Mr D.
Our Adjudicator didnt think that Lending Stream had done anything wrong in providing loans 
1 and 2 - but did feel that it shouldnt have given Loan 3. As such it was proposed that 
Lending Stream should make amends to Mr D by refunding all interest and charges paid 
against Loan 3, and removing any adverse data about that loan from Mr Ds credit file.
Lending Stream has since confirmed that it accepts our Adjudicators recommendations. 
However, Mr D doesnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
do so without borrowing further.
 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided by both 
Lending Stream and Mr D in this context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Lending Stream said that before the loans were provided it confirmed Mr Ds monthly income 
and gathered information about his expenses. It said it checked the information Mr D 
provided against independent data sources and with a credit reference agency.
Recognising everything that Mr D and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each loan in 
turn.
 
Loan 1As this was Mr Ds first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely 
on the information hed provided. Mr D declared his monthly income to be £2,200 - and after 
paying his declared outgoings (a figure which Lending Stream appears to have inflated to 
allow a safety margin for additional unexpected spending) it still looked as though he should 
have had sufficient disposable income left over to cover the cost of the repayments on this 
loan. 
At this early stage, Mr D didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. And the results of its credit checks dont 
show anything adverse that shouldve prompted it either to ask Mr D more searching 
questions about his financial situation or check the information hed provided.
Ive kept in mind what Mr D has said about his credit history. Its worth remembering that a 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised or not up to date. Also, not all payday and short term lenders report 
to the same credit reference agencies and so a lenders credit check might not show all the 
information someone could see (or might expect to see) on their own credit file. 
So, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ds complaint about Loan 1. 
Loan 2
Loan 2 was provided two months after Loan 1 was taken out  and whilst the former loan 
remained outstanding. In these circumstances Ive looked at the combined repayments to 
both Loans 1 and 2. Having done so, I dont consider that the total amount repayable each 
month by Mr D to Lending Stream represented a significant proportion of his income. 
At the time he applied for Loan 2, Mr D had successfully made the first two scheduled 
repayments due under Loan 1 (amounting to £409). I dont see anything, therefore, that I 
think ought to have suggested to Lending Stream that he was finding it difficult to meet his 
loan commitments.
Based upon the information hed provided to Lending Stream, and the checks it carried out, I 
think it wouldve looked like Mr D had sufficient money left after paying his other monthly 
outgoings to sustainably repay this additional loan alongside the existing loan. And I think 
that Lending Stream was still entitled, at this relatively early stage in their relationship, to rely 
upon the information Mr D provided to it.
In all these circumstances I dont consider Lending Stream was wrong to provide Loan 2 to 
Mr D, and so I dont propose to uphold his complaint in relation to this loan.
Loan 3
Mr D applied for Loan 3 just four days after Loan 2 had been provided to him, and when both 
previous loans were still outstanding. Having reviewed the repayment schedules of the three 
loans I can see that the total of the combined repayments due to Lending Stream in any one 
month was, at its peak, £558. I agree with our adjudicator that this represents a significant 
proportion of Mr Ds monthly income to the point it wouldve constituted a significant risk that 
he may find the aggregate repayments for the three loans to be unsustainable. I concur that, 
in light of this, Lending Stream was wrong to give Loan 3 to Mr D. As such, it needs to put 
things right, as follows:
Putting things right Lending Stream should:
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on Loan 3 and treat all the payments 
Mr D made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ds Loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr D effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Lending Stream should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*. This refund (after 
the deduction of tax) can be used by Lending Stream to help repay any outstanding 
balance on Loans 1 and 2;
if reworking Mr Ds Loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then I 
remind Lending Stream that it should take a sympathetic view when reviewing the 
affordable repayment plan it has arranged with Mr D;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to Loan 3
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Because I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to provide Loans 1 and 2 to Mr D, I dont 
believe it would be appropriate to ask it to waive the interest and charges that were agreed 
at the outset of its lending.
Im sorry that Mr D found repaying these loans difficult. I dont doubt that he has been 
experiencing financial difficulties, but I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to expect 
Lending Stream to have asked him for the amount of information that wouldve been needed 
to show that Loans 1 and 2 were unsustainable. I appreciate that my decision is going to 
disappoint Mr D but I hope that setting out the reasons as I have done will help explain how 
Ive reached it.
Mr D has complained that Lending Stream has applied a Default Charge against one of the 
loans as a result of a repayment being missed because it was wrongly scheduled in the 
lenders records. Im afraid I havent seen any records of this to be able to substantiate this 
complaint, so I would ask Lending Stream to please review its files and ensure that no 
inappropriate charges have been levied or, if they have, then they should be reversed.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
require Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Richard France
Ombudsman