DRN-3866612
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) didnt arrange and pay for 
alternative accommodation while it dealt with his claim for fire damage. 
Any reference to RSA includes any other party acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr P had buildings and contents insurance with RSA for a number of years. He claimed 
under the policy following a fire at his home. RSA accepted the claim but made some 
mistakes. Because of those mistakes, Mr P didnt receive alternative accommodation (AA). 
The facts of the matter are not in dispute. Rather than repeat the detail here, Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint, though I wont be asking RSA to 
pay more than our investigator already proposed. Ill explain.
The issue of Mr Ps complaint is that RSA didnt offer him AA or any payment towards his 
costs while unable to live at his home. RSA acknowledged its mistake, but it didnt rectify 
anything. So, Mr P wants RSA to pay him what it wouldve cost for AA while he was staying 
with friends and family. 
The shortfalls Ive identified include:
RSA shouldve offered AA as soon as it accepted Mr Ps claim because the loss 
adjuster deemed his home uninhabitable.
The policy start date was incorrectly logged as the same day as the fire, triggering a 
fraud investigation.
RSA realised its mistake and didnt pursue a fraud investigation, although it did 
contact Mr P and his neighbour for further information which he said caused him 
additional distress.
Handling of Mr Ps claim was transferred between RSAs agents, mainly for valid 
reasons, but that led to mistakes made with his claim.
Because of the mistakes, RSA didnt offer AA because it believed Mr P didnt need it.
By the time RSA realised it shouldve offered AA, cleaning had almost finished so Mr 
P could move back home. Instead, it offered disturbance allowance at the industry 
rate of £10 per day, backdated to the start of his claim.
Our investigator proposed compensation of £750 in recognition of the shortfalls. Mr P didnt 
think it was enough. Ive thought carefully about the additional and avoidable distress and 
inconvenience Mr P suffered because of RSAs mistakes, including:
He stayed with various family and friends causing disruption for two months because 
RSA didnt provide AA.
RSA only paid disturbance allowance after Mr P was able to move back home, rather 
than when he wouldve needed it.
Inaccurate reporting between RSAs agents resulting in a fraud investigation caused 
Mr P additional distress.
RSA didnt offer Mr P anything for the distress and inconvenience caused even after 
acknowledging its mistakes. 
I understand that Mr P wants RSA to pay him what it wouldve cost to provide AA for the two 
months he wasn't able to live at home, plus compensation. RSA paid Mr P a disturbance 
allowance, albeit late. That payment is to cover additional costs beyond those which Mr P 
would ordinarily incur had the fire not happened and if hed stayed at home. For example, 
additional meal, laundry, or bathing costs.
Mr P isnt entitled to a fixed sum for AA regardless of whether RSA made that available to 
him. But AA wouldve been the preferred option, and its the loss of that option for which Im 
asking RSA to pay compensation.
Im in no doubt that RSA didnt handle Mr Ps claim as well as it shouldve done, and that Mr 
P experienced distress and inconvenience. However, I must balance that with the distress 
and inconvenience he wouldve experienced anyway as a direct result of the fire; the 
complicated circumstances around the cause of the fire, and the fact that RSA settled the 
claim quickly.
Overall, Im satisfied £750 is fair and reasonable compensation for the issues Ive identified.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance plc must:
pay Mr P £750 compensation in recognition of its service shortfalls and the failure to 
provide alternative accommodation while his home was uninhabitable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman