DRN-1756997
The complaint
Mr L says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Mr L between January 2016 and 
August 2017. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
117/01/2016 07/07/2016 6 £500.00 £186.66
209/07/2016 06/01/2017 6 £500.00 £193.33
316/01/2017 07/08/2017 6 £750.00 £265.00
407/08/2017 Outstanding 6 £750.00 £311.00
 
I understand loan 4 is outstanding and Mr Lender has sold this debt to a third party and that 
Mr L has settled the loan directly with them.
In its final response to Mr L, Mr Lender didnt uphold his complaint. It said all checks carried 
out were sufficient for his loans. It offered Mr L a voucher as a gesture of goodwill which 
Mr L didn't accept.
Our adjudicator didn't think the whole complaint should be upheld, but she said that Mr 
Lender shouldn't have given loan 4. For this loan she thought proportionate checks would 
have shown that the consumer was having problems managing his money. She said Mr 
Lender likely would have become aware that Mr L had more than three other short-term 
loans that were outstanding with other lenders. Mr Lender in these circumstances ought to 
have realised it was unlikely Mr L wouldve sustainably been able to repay this loan.
Mr Lender disagreed with this view. It said it thought the checks it had carried out were 
proportionate. At the time of lending, it had asked various questions about Mr Ls 
circumstances and Mr Ls borrowing history didn't raise any concerns. As his repayments 
had been made without any difficulty it didn't feel further checks would have been 
proportionate. It had no reason to question the information Mr L had provided.
It asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. So, the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
As I explained above in the early stages of a lending relationship proportionate checks 
needed to be carried out. Mr L declared his income as £1,850 per month for all the loans. He 
told Mr Lender his expenses were £910 for loan 1 leaving him with a disposable income of £940. This was Mr Ls first loan and Mr L appeared not have been in a debt management 
plan, and wasn't bankrupt. So, I think the checks Mr Lender did for this loan 
were proportionate and wouldn't have indicated Mr L was having problems managing his 
money, or that the repayment for this loan was unsustainable or unaffordable. 
For loan 2, Mr Ls expenses were £992 taking into account other possible short-term loans. 
This resulted in Mr L having a disposable income of £858. Although Mr L borrowed this loan 
only a couple of days after repaying loan 1, this was still early in the lending relationship. 
As there had been no problems in repaying loan 1, I think the checks Mr Lender carried out 
were proportionate and wouldn't have indicated a problem in managing his money. So, I 
cant say it was unfair for Mr Lender to give Mr L loan 2.
Looking next at loan 3, Mr L told Mr Lender his expenses had increased to £1,183. I can see 
from the transactions that there was one deferral of making repayment in April 2017. But at 
the point Mr Lender gave Mr L his loan, he had repaid both his previous loans. This time he 
opted to borrow more but I still think its checks were proportionate at this stage. Mr L had 
no indications of bankruptcy and I dont think based on the information it had about Mr L, Mr 
Lender would have thought that Mr L was struggling financially.
Finally, I have carefully thought about loan 4. This time Mr L had expenses of £1,183, 
leaving him with a disposable income of £667. He borrowed this loan the same day as 
repaying loan 3 and for the same amount. By now this was the fourth loan, and he had been 
in a borrowing relationship with no gaps for nearly 18 months. So, at this point, I think
Mr Lender should have carried out further checks to verify the information Mr L had told it.
Mr Lender could have done this in several ways. It could have asked to see Mr Ls pay slips 
to confirm his wages. It could also have asked for copies of his bills to confirm his outgoings. 
Mr L has provided a copy of his credit report from around the time of loan 4. I dont think it is 
unreasonable for me to rely on this report and I have carefully looked to see what it revealed 
about Mr Ls financial position.
I can see at the time of taking his fourth loan, Mr L had a number of credit cards and hed 
clearly been consistently reliant on high cost credit. I note he had around ten unsecured 
loans and a number of short-term loans - two of which had defaulted a few months before
Mr Lender gave loan 4. All in all, if Mr Lender had carried out proportionate checks, I think it 
would have seen Mr Ls reliance on short-term loans and that it was likely he was having 
problems managing his money. I dont think this loan was sustainably affordable and if Mr 
Lender had done proper checks, I think its likely it would have decided not to lend. So, Im 
upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right
As I said above Mr Lender shouldn't have given loan 4 to Mr L.
It appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 4. If that is the case and Mr 
Lender has sold this outstanding debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the steps set out below. If it is not able to buy the debts back, it must liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results set out below: 
 
A. Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
 B. Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr L 
having made overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus must be paid to Mr L. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance, Mr Lender must agree to an affordable repayment plan with Mr 
L.
 
E. Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to loan 4. If the third party has reported any adverse credit file information, Mr 
Lender needs to liaise with it to remove this information.                                                
                                                                                            
*  HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman