DRN-3726594
The complaint
Mr C and Miss H have complained about their home insurer QIC Europe Ltd in relation to a 
claim they made when their kitchen sink overflowed.
What happened
Mr C and Miss H reported to QIC that their sink had overflowed causing damage to the 
kitchen worktop, units, and appliances, as well as to flooring in the adjoining lounge and 
separate dining room. About a month after the loss a QIC assessor attended to consider the 
damage. He felt it had not been caused by a one-off incident of water overflowing the sink. 
QIC declined the claim (for this building damage) and Mr C and Miss H complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that QIC had reasonably relied on the view of its assessor. She felt its 
decline had been fair and reasoble in the circumstances. Mr C said that the lounge flooring 
was a particular concern for him  it had progressively gotten worse since the incident and 
he was worried about the state of the sub-floor beneath. He obtained a report on the 
damage. Our Investigator sent it to QIC for consideration. QIC said it didnt change its view 
that the damage had not been caused by the incident reported. 
Our Investigator reviewed all of the evidence and comments from both parties. Having done 
so, she wasnt persuaded that QICs view was wrong. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C and Miss H were unhappy. Their complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C and Miss H believe that the incident of the sink overflowing has caused 
significant damage to their home. And particularly the lounge floor. However, and even 
taking into account the report they have provided, Im not persuaded that QICs decision to 
decline the claim was unfair and unreasonable.
Following the incident Mr C and Miss H sent photos of the damage to QIC. And QIC had an 
assessor visit to view the damage. Whilst the assessor didnt attend for a few weeks, the 
photos he took during his visit seem to show the same damage, or the same level of 
damage, to the flooring as well as in the kitchen, to that captured in the photos taken by 
Mr C and Miss H. Further the photos taken of the kitchen show what appears to be rot  in 
the worktop around the sink and at the base of units, for example. That type of damage 
occurs over time due to repeated exposure to water  not due to a one-off incident where the 
water is relatively quickly removed and the area left open, allowing it to dry. 
I think QICs decline, based on the expert findings of its assessor was fair and reasonable. 
But to challenge QICs position, Mr C and Miss H obtained their own expert opinion.
That opinion was obtained some nine months after the incident. Mr C and Miss Hs assessor 
felt the lounge flooring, in particular, was suffering water damage which had resulted from 
the reported incident. He says the damage must have resulted from this because high traffic 
areas, elsewhere in the room, removed from the water affected area, are not suffering the 
same kind of damage. He found the damaged flooring was wet. QIC, having been asked to 
consider Mr C and Miss Hs assessors report said it still felt the property had not been 
damaged by the kitchen sink overflowing. QIC maintained that the damage claimed for likely 
wouldnt have occurred in the gap of time between the incident and its inspection  that 
rather it was long-term damage.
I think that, on this occasion, QICs position is not unreasonable. It is based on the expert 
opinion of its assessor and whilst Mr C and Miss H have presented a report in challenge of 
that view, that is based on an assessment which took place around nine months after the 
incident. And theres no reasoning given within that report that shows how or why that 
assessor can reasonably determine that what he is seeing, nine months later, was only 
caused during or because of the reported incident, as opposed to it having been pre-existing 
at the time of the incident. In short, Im most persuaded by QICs view that the building 
damage claimed for had most likely not been caused by the overflowing sink.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against QIC Europe Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman