DRN-4164249
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG) 
under a protection policy for his boiler.
References to DG include their agents who administer policies and carry out services under 
policies.
What happened
Mr B had a protection policy with DG that covered breakdown and repairs to the boiler in his 
rental property. The policy had covered the boiler from its installation from new, for a period 
over ten years, during which time DG carried out several repairs to the boiler. In October 
2022 a DG engineer (V) attended the property to carry out some repairs to the boiler but was 
unable to do so as he said the boiler had an incorrect flue fitted. Mr B was subsequently 
advised remedial action was required as the boiler was considered unsafe (the policy didnt 
cover flues).  
Mr B challenged Vs view, telling DG the flue was the correct one fitted when the boiler was 
installed. He also sent them the current Gas Safety Certificate (required by law) indicating 
the boiler and flue were safe. 
DG treated Mr Bs challenge as a complaint. In their first final response (October 2022) they 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said V concluded the incorrect flue was fitted and the 
boiler was unsafe. They wouldnt repair the boiler until the remedial work to fit the correct 
flue had been carried out. A further final response (November 2022) said Mr B would need to 
provide a report (from V or other repair agent) confirming the boiler was a write off.
However, there was subsequent communication between DG and Mr B, which he took to 
indicate they would be willing to consider a settlement for the boiler as a write off. Under the 
policy, a maximum of £750 would be payable towards the cost of a replacement boiler. Mr B 
said he accepted the offer but said DG didnt make payment (and continued to take 
premiums under the policy). So, he made a further complaint to DG.
DG upheld the complaint in part. They said they hadnt written off the boiler and wouldnt 
consider it a write off (as beyond economical repair), given the advice theyd provided Mr B 
about the remedial work required on the flue. So, they wouldnt be making a settlement. 
But they accepted they hadnt communicated clearly to Mr B about the potential settlement 
figure for the boiler as a write off. They said they should have confirmed that should they 
accept the claim (from the supporting evidence) for the boiler being a write off, they would 
award a settlement. However, should they conclude the claim wasnt covered, the settlement 
wouldnt be made. DG had contacted the boiler manufacturer, who confirmed the incorrect 
flue had been fitted. But the boiler wasnt a write off (and cover wouldnt continue under the 
policy until the remedial work on the flue was completed).
But DG upheld the complaint in respect of how theyd handled the first complaint and the 
misleading communications theyd sent to Mr B. DG apologised and awarded £50 in 
compensation. 
Unhappy at DGs actions, Mr B complained to this service. He said there hadnt previously 
been an issue raised about the flue being incorrect. But having accepted DGs offer of £750 
towards a replacement boiler, he thought DG should honour the offer. He also wanted 
reimbursement of the premiums DG had continued to collect after making the offer and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience he said the incident had caused him.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint, thinking DG should pay Mr B £100 
compensation for a loss of expectation from DG indicating they would make a settlement for 
the boiler being a write off. But the investigator didnt think DG should reimburse the policy 
premiums or contribute towards the cost of replacing the boiler. The policy terms indicated 
the boiler had to be installed, maintained and used in accordance with the manufacturers 
instructions. As the manufacturer indicated the flue was incorrect, it wasnt unreasonable for 
DG to say Mr B had to replace the flue (even though hed provided a gas safety certificate 
from a third party). And DG wouldnt necessarily have picked up the issue of the incorrect 
flue unless theyd previously carried out repairs on an issue related to the flue. As the boiler 
hadnt been declared beyond economical repair (a write off) the investigator didnt think DG 
should contribute towards its replacement.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said the boiler had been covered by DG since its installation more than ten 
years ago and DG had carried out repairs without raising an issue with the flue. There had 
been no changes to the boiler or flue during that time and it had been installed and used in 
accordance with the manufacturers instructions. He didnt think using the issue with the flue 
not to carry out the repair was fair. And the gas safety certificate indicated no problems with 
the flue. DG had made a firm offer of £750 settlement and as hed accepted the offer this 
should form a binding contract (which DG had failed to honour). And they had continued to 
take payments under the policy without offering any service or justification.
DG also disagreed with the investigators view. They said what they had advised about the 
event of the boiler being written off had been done in good faith, as it was Mr B whod 
advised the boiler had been written off. But V hadnt written off the boiler. DG also said 
theyd already awarded Mr B a payment of goodwill (the £50 theyd awarded) as recognition 
of their poor communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DG have acted fairly towards Mr B.
The main issue in Mr Bs complaint is that DG havent paid him the £750 settlement offer he 
says was made after their engineers report the boiler had an incorrect flue fitted. Mr B has 
provided emails between him and DG (between October and December 2022) which he 
says confirm DG made the settlement offer of £750 (which he accepted). Mr B wants DG to 
honour the offer made (and pay compensation). 
DG accept they didnt communicate clearly to Mr B about the potential settlement for the 
boiler as a write off. They say they should have confirmed - should they accept the claim 
(from the supporting evidence) - they would award a settlement. However, should they 
conclude the claim wasnt covered, the settlement wouldnt be made. DG contacted the boiler manufacturer, who confirmed the incorrect flue had been fitted. But the boiler wasnt a 
write off, so they wouldnt be offering a settlement.
On the issue of the communication of the [potential] settlement, Ive looked at the email 
exchanges between DG and Mr B between October and December 2022. Having done so, 
theres an email from DG to Mr B in October (in response to Mr B providing a gas safety 
certificate) that states:
We have received the certificate and it has been sent to our complaint handlerhe 
will be contacting you for the £750.00 to be processed.
Theres a further email from DG to Mr B at the beginning of December that states:
I have forwarded the invoice/receipt you sent into me to our Claims department; they 
will be the ones issuing the settlement. I did this on 7 December.
So, I can understand Mr B thinking DG were going to make a settlement for his boiler. DGs 
final response issued in November 2022 states Mr B would need to provide a report (from V 
or other repair agent) confirming the boiler was a write off. Its not clear why DG 
subsequently communicated (as above) giving the impression a settlement would be issued. 
I think this created a clear expectation for Mr B. Ill come on to set out what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome to Mr Bs subsequent loss of expectation.
Under the terms of the policy, it provides for a settlement to be made if the boiler cannot be 
repaired or is uneconomical to repair. Under the What is insured? Section of the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) it states:
 if we cannot repair your product or it is uneconomical for us to repair it we will 
arrange to provide you with a new boiler up to a value of £750.
However, DG say Mr B hasnt provided any evidence the boiler was beyond economical 
repair (a write off). Looking at the evidence available, Im persuaded thats the case. Ive 
seen the gas safety certificate provided by Mr B (from a third-party engineer) and while it 
concludes the boiler is safe (according to the engineer) it doesnt indicate the boiler is 
beyond economical repair (it would be contradictory for a certificate to be issued in respect 
of a boiler that was beyond economical repair). And from DGs case notes, V wouldnt carry 
out the repair for which they visited Mr Bs property because they concluded the incorrect 
flue was fitted. They didnt decline to carry out the repair because they considered the boiler 
to be beyond economical repair. 
On the question of whether the flue was incorrect, this was Vs conclusion. And 
subsequently confirmed by a specialist engineer from the boiler manufacturer. While Mr B 
says the flue was correctly installed with the boiler (and neither had been changed since) on 
balance Im more persuaded by the views of V and (in particular) the specialist engineer. 
And it may be that changes in regulations may have made the flue incorrect (or non-
compliant) from when it was first fitted. 
And while the flue may not have been thought to be incorrect before Vs inspection (from the 
repairs carried out over the years) that doesnt mean that the conclusions of V and the 
specialist engineer were wrong when they inspected the boiler and the flue.
Ive also considered the other points made by Mr B. First, that DG had made a firm offer of 
£750 settlement and as hed accepted the offer this should form a binding contract (which 
DG had failed to honour). However, as indicated in DGs final response in November 2022, 
they required a report showing the boiler was a write off. So, the offer was conditional (even allowing for the misleading communication point). But as Ive concluded Ive not seen such a 
report, then Ive concluded DG havent breached a binding contract. 
On the point about DG continuing to take payments under the policy without offering any 
service or justification, as DG had advised remediation work on the flue (which wouldnt be 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy) then I dont think its unreasonable for 
them not to agree to carry out any other repair work on the boiler until the remediation work 
had been carried out. This didnt mean theyd cancelled the policy, which remained in force.
Turning to DGs points, I acknowledge the point they make that advising about the event of 
the boiler being written off being done in good faith, as it was Mr B whod advised the boiler 
had been written off. But V hadnt written off the boiler. But as Ive concluded above, their 
communication with Mr B gave a clear impression a settlement had been offered (and would 
be processed). So, as Ive concluded, there was a clear loss of expectation on Mr Bs part. 
I also appreciate DGs view theyve recognised this in their offer of £50 compensation. But 
my role is to come to a conclusion  where I think a business hasnt acted fairly  about what 
would be a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. Given the clear loss of 
expectation, taking account of all the circumstances of the case, Ive concluded £100 would 
be fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. I 
require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr B £100 compensation for inconvenience (loss of expectation). 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman