DRN-1851737
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) gave her misleading information about 
the likely outcome of a chargeback she made. 
What happened
In October 2019 Ms B booked a holiday through Company A over the phone. But when the 
confirmation email was received, she says the details weren't in line with what shed agreed. 
She contacted Company A but the dispute wasn't resolved. So she attempted to raise a 
chargeback with her own bank  Barclays.
In November 2019 Barclays began the chargeback process under the scheme rules for 
services not as described. Ms B also received a temporary refund of the money from 
Barclays. Ms B then booked a new holiday a few days later with a different travel company. 
In December 2019 Company A responded and defended the chargeback. Following some 
back and forth Barclays decided it wouldn't take the chargeback any further. It confirmed this 
in writing to Ms B at the end of January 2020. And the temporary refund was removed in 
February 2020. 
Ms B was unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Barclays then reviewed what 
happened and said it had given Ms B incorrect information about timeframes involved. And it 
offered her £100 as compensation for this. 
Our investigator felt that Barclays offer was fair. She agreed that Barclays had given 
incorrect timescales initially, but this hadn't affected Ms Bs chargeback. She also found 
Barclays hadn't made any errors with processing the chargeback and didn't agree it had mis-
led about a likely outcome within any calls. 
Ms B disagreed and said Barclays misinformation had led her to not accept an offer made 
by Company A to cancel the holiday, and to book the second holiday. As an agreement 
couldn't be reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied the offer 
Barclays has made is fair. Ill explain why.
The chargeback 
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme managed by the relevant card scheme operator who 
sets the rules  not Barclays. Its purpose is to settle disputes without needing to resort to 
more formal steps, such as a court.
The first stage of the chargeback process is to ask the relevant merchant if they want to 
defend the claim. Company A did, and sent detailed reasons why. Following this Barclays asked Ms B for information in response to its points  which she gave. Barclays shared this 
with Company A and it still disagreed.
Barclays then had to decide, based on the available evidence, whether to ask the card 
scheme operator to arbitrate on the issue. I wouldn't expect Barclays to pursue every 
chargeback to arbitration as theres associated costs that it has to incur. So I think its 
reasonable it wouldn't pursue those cases  like this one  where it believes the prospect of 
success is unlikely.
Barclays has said in this case it had no evidence to prove what details Ms B was given about 
the holiday during the call with Company A. And it highlighted that the holiday itself was non-
refundable. Company A had also provided internal notes and other evidence that didn't 
support her version of events. So while I appreciate Ms B feels very strongly about the 
dispute, Im satisfied Barclays decision to not pursue the chargeback further was a 
reasonable one. 
Information given by Barclays 
Ms B says Barclays led her to believe her chargeback would be successful which influenced 
her decision making. So Ive considered the available call recordings carefully. I wont detail 
each of these calls individually as our investigator has already done so. 
In the majority of the calls Ive listened to, Barclays advisors dont comment on whether the 
dispute will or wont be successful. And within a number of calls Ms B says shes aware she 
may not get the refund or the chargeback wont be successful. So I disagree Barclays gave 
Ms B reassurance in each call as she alleged.
However during one call an advisor does suggest to Ms B that theyre confident the 
chargeback will be in her favour  but makes it clear hes nothing to do with the card 
operator itself. Ms B then says shortly after shes already booked another holiday. So even if 
I agreed Barclays had misled her within this call, which I dont, Im not persuaded this 
influenced her own decision making.
Ms B has also said she didn't cancel her holiday when offered by Company A based on 
Barclays advice. Ive listened to a call where Ms B tells Barclays shed received an email 
from Company A about cancelling the holiday. Ms B says the email explained shed lose all 
of the money spent if she cancelled the trip. Following this Barclays tells her to not cancel 
the holiday as this may affect the chargeback. 
Ms B now has said the offer from Company A would allow her a refund minus a cancellation 
fee. This isn't in keeping with what she told Barclays at the time. So based on what it was 
told, Im satisfied Barclays advice to Ms B to not cancel the holiday was reasonable. And I 
say this as it would at least have given her a chance of obtaining a refund through the 
chargeback route, when the alternative was for all the funds to be lost.
Barclays has confirmed that Ms B was initially given the incorrect information around when 
she could raise the dispute. This was corrected the same day and the dispute itself was 
raised at the earliest possible date. So Im satisfied any error didn't affect the chargeback. 
Barclays has offered £100 to recognise its error. I think this sum is generous in the 
circumstances and Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank Plc have made an offer to pay £100. My decision is this offer is fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. Barclays 
should pay Ms B (if it hasn't done so already) within 28 days of receiving her acceptance of 
this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman