DRN-1682052
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan he took from PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender. 
Mr S says Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly.   
What happened
Mr S was given a loan of £500 by Mr Lender in July 2017. The loan was repayable in 6 
instalments.   I understand that part way through the loan term, Mr S notified the lender that 
he was having financial difficulties. Mr Lender has told us a repayment plan was agreed and 
the loan has now been closed. 
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ss complaint. She didn't think Mr Lender had been 
wrong to provide Mr S with the loan.  Mr S didn't agree with the adjudicators assessment, 
and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S could repay the 
loan sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
the loan amount, the repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. But there was 
no set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether the lending was sustainable for Mr S.
Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given a loan (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr Lender has told us it carried out some checks before lending to Mr S. It asked him for 
details of his income and expenditure, and the amount he was spending on repaying other 
lending. It also carried out some information from a credit reference agency. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing to lend to Mr S were 
reasonable and proportionate  given the amounts that Mr S needed to repay each month in 
relation to the disposable income hed declared. Ive seen a summary of the information 
gathered by the lender at the time and overall, I dont think there was anything which should 
have caused Mr Lender any additional concerns about Mr Ss financial position when he 
applied for the loan. Or that should have led it to reasonably conclude that his loan 
application should be declined.
Mr S has complained that at the time he applied to Mr Lender, he had over £30,000 of other 
debt from loans, credit cards and short-term loans. Hes told us that Mr Lender would have 
discovered this, if it had carried out a better credit search.  Mr S has provided his own credit 
search. However, generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a 
copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only 
see certain information, or a portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information provided by the lenders credit check and the information Mr S says 
it should have seen. 
Mr S thinks the fact that he had multiple short-term loans with other lenders at the time he 
borrowed from Mr Lender should be taken into account.  But as I have explained above, Mr 
Lender had to carry out checks that were proportionate. Given what Mr S had told Mr Lender 
about his circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for the lender, at this 
initial stage of the lending relationship, to ask Mr S for the amount of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the loan. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr Lender to make its lending decision based on the information Mr S 
provided and what it found from carrying out proportionate checks. I dont think more in-
depth checks were appropriate at the time. And I dont think Mr Ss lending had reached the 
point where I think Mr Lender ought to have been independently verifying the information he 
was providing about his finances by, for example, asking to see copies of his bank 
statements. 
I appreciate that Mr S says his financial situation was very much worse, and that he was in 
serious debt. But this doesnt appear to be something he shared with Mr Lender when he 
applied for the loan, or something that what I consider to be proportionate checks would 
have uncovered.
Mr S has also explained that he was suffering from severe depression and other personal 
problems at the time he took the loan. He has told us he feels he wasnt in the right frame of 
mind to consider the consequences of what he was doing. He thinks Mr Lender either didnt 
check properly or it saw him as a vulnerable customer and decided to lend to him anyway. I 
appreciate this must have been a very difficult time for Mr S. However, it does not appear to 
be something that he disclosed to Mr Lender at the time. So I dont think the lender could 
reasonably have known that Mr S was a vulnerable consumer when it made its lending 
decision. And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr Lender was aware of Mr Ss 
vulnerability and decided to agree the loan anyway. Mr Lender has told us it entered into a 
repayment plan, after Mr S explained his difficulties in repaying the loan. Overall, I dont 
have sufficient evidence for me to say that Mr Lender has treated Mr S unfairly or acted 
unreasonably towards him.
I know Mr S will be very disappointed by my decision, but I would like to reassure him that I 
have considered everything that he and Mr Lender has told us about this matter. I am sorry 
that Mr S is struggling with financial problems, but I cant fairly conclude that Mr Lender did 
something wrong when it provided the loan to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against PDL 
Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Sharon ParrOmbudsman