DRN-2903385
The complaint
Miss V complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited gave her incorrect information when 
she called it to report a motor incident. And shes unhappy with its handling of a claim made 
by the third party following that incident.
Miss V is represented in this complaint by her mother, but to keep things simple my decision 
will refer to all actions and comments as being those of Miss V. 
What happened
Miss V had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. On 17 September 2020 she called it to 
say shed been involved in an incident whilst reversing out of a car parking space and 
asked for advice on what to do next. Admiral logged the incident and explained Miss V was 
liable unless CCTV showed otherwise. Miss V confirmed her car wasnt damaged and she 
didnt want to claim, but that the driver of the other car (the third party, or TP) said theyd 
need a new bumper costing £550. Admiral told Miss V that since she was liable, to 
minimise costs it would offer its services to the TP and Miss V would lose two years no 
claims bonus (NCB) entitlement. When Miss V asked if she could do anything to keep her 
NCBs, including paying for the TP repairs, Admiral said Miss V would lose them 
regardless. Miss V asked Admiral if it would contact her after speaking to the TP and was 
told it depended on what the TP said.
Soon after, Miss V again asked Admiral if she could pay the TP repairs to get her NCBs 
back. Admiral called Miss V on 24 September 2020 and explained she had that option, but 
it was waiting for the TP repairs to be finished at one of its garages and so the claim costs 
werent known yet. Admiral confirmed that if Miss V took this option, it would record the 
incident but note no payments were made. Miss V asked when Admiral would be in touch 
about the TP claim and was told it would email her at the end of it.
Admiral notified Miss V when the claim closed, so she called it on 26 October 2020 
looking to pay the TP costs and have her NCBs reinstated. Admiral confirmed the TP 
claim costs were £1,285.70 (£887.90 of repair costs plus £397.80 of car hire costs). Miss 
V thought that was too much and didnt choose to pay. So Admiral reduced Miss Vs NCB 
by two years.
Miss V complained to Admiral. She said Admiral gave her incorrect information about her 
options when she first called, and shed been caused inconvenience to resolve this. That it 
didnt update her about the TP claim, which it finalised and paid without her knowledge so 
she didnt have the option to pay it and get her NCBs back. And that it paid too much for the 
TP claim, particularly the car hire costs.
Admiral accepted it should have told Miss V she could pay the claim to get her NCBs back 
when she first called and offered £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused. But Admiral said it told Miss V it would contact her once the claim was 
finalised, which it did. And that to minimise claim costs, it offered its services to the TP as 
the terms and conditions of Miss Vs policy entitled it to. Admiral explained its engineer 
had reviewed the costs and it wasnt in Admirals interests to inflate them.
Miss V brought her complaint to our service, saying shed wanted to avoid going through 
her insurance and losing her NCBs. And that the TP repairs should have cost £300 at 
most.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Vs complaint. He said Admiral was entitled to deal 
with the TP repairs and had explained that to Miss V. But when Miss V first called, Admiral 
hadnt explained she could get her NCBs back by paying the TP costs. He thought 
Admirals offer of £75 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused Miss V.
Miss V disagreed. She said her premiums would likely increase so it was even more unfair 
to lose her NCBs, and Admiral should let her keep them. She said Admiral should have told 
her what the costs would be and given her the option of paying for the TP repairs herself. 
But instead, Admiral just decided to do the repairs and pay for the TPs hire car at Miss Vs 
expense, since shell now have higher premiums and lose her NCB. Miss V felt shed been 
disadvantaged by doing the right thing and telling Admiral about the incident.
As Miss V disagreed, her complaint came to me for a decision. On 11 June 2021 I issued 
my provisional decision, in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
incorrect advice in the initial call
The terms and conditions of Miss Vs policy say she must tell Admiral about any incident, so 
that was something she needed to do in any case. Ive listened to the call in which Miss V 
does so, and Miss V is clearly keen to know if theres anything she can do to keep her 
NCBs, including paying the TP costs. But Admiral advised shed lose her NCBs regardless. 
Admiral itself accepts that information wasnt correct and it should have told Miss V she 
could pay the TP costs to get her NCBs back. Instead, it told her this a week later after shed 
contacted Admiral raising this point again.
So Miss V was left with uncertainty for a week and was put to some inconvenience to have 
that uncertainty resolved, because she needed to write to Admiral and have a further call
with it in order to be correctly told her options. Given this, I think the £75 Admiral has already
offered is fair compensation for that.
communication about the claim
Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to conduct the settlement of the TP claim, as the General
Conditions of your cover section of Miss Vs policy terms and conditions says We are
entitled to: conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf. And Im satisfied
this means Miss V wasnt entitled to a say in the claim settlement, as she seems to suggest.
But Id expect Admiral to let Miss V know about a TP claim, as its something that could 
affect her policy. In the initial call, Admiral told Miss V it would offer its services to the TP. 
Admiral wasnt obliged to keep Miss V updated about the claim. And having listened to the 
calls between Admiral and Miss V about this matter, Ive not heard that Admiral told Miss V it 
would keep her updated. Instead, a week after the initial call, it told Miss V she had the 
option of paying the TP costs to keep her NCBs and it would contact her when the TP claim 
was settled. It did notify her when the claim was settled, because that prompted Miss V to call Admiral. And in that call, Admiral confirmed the TP costs and Miss V chose not to take 
the option of paying them to keep her NCB.
Based on this, Im satisfied Admiral made Miss V aware of the claim and gave her the option 
of paying the claim in order to keep her NCBs. Admiral has confirmed Miss V still has the 
option of paying the claim costs in order to reinstate her no claims bonus, this can be done 
at any stage with no time limit. Please be aware any premium charges up until the point of 
re-imbursement will not be refunded and the incident will not be rated upon after 5 years. If 
Miss V wants to choose this option, she should contact Admiral to discuss it.
claim costs
Miss V says the TP repairs costs should have been £300 at most. The invoices Admiral has 
provided shows it paid for a new bumper to be fitted plus associated paintwork and VAT, at a 
cost of £887.90. The TP car was taken to one of Admirals repairers. And from the 
assessment report Admiral has provided, I can see its engineer reviewed the proposed 
repairs and agreed their cost. So Im satisfied Admiral got expert advice about the repairs, 
and didnt rely on what either the TP or Miss V thought. And Ive not seen anything 
unnecessary or excessive in the repair costs.
Miss V also says Admiral shouldnt have paid for the TPs car hire costs of £397.80 while 
their car was being repaired. Admiral says it had to pay this as the TP was entitled to a hire 
car as they would not have been given a courtesy vehicle. Given this, I think its fair for 
Admiral to have offered the TP a hire car. And I can see that the hire car was a similar class 
to the TPs own car.
That said, the TP had the hire car for the time their own car was in for repairs, which was 14 
days. And Admiral says this is a reasonable length of time given the extent of the repairs. I 
note the TPs car was being repaired at one of Admirals repairers, so these timescales were 
within Admirals control. And I think 14 days is an unreasonably long time for it to have taken 
to replace a bumper and carry out associated paintwork. Instead, I think its reasonable to 
expect these repairs to have been completed within a week. So if Miss V chooses to take the 
option of paying the claim costs to get her NCBs back, Admiral should deduct seven days of 
car hire from the car hire costs it asks her to pay - I calculate this to be a deduction of 
£193.79 including VAT.
NCBs not reinstated
I understand the main thing Miss V wants is for her NCBs to be reinstated. Section 7 of the 
policy terms and conditions say If you (or any driver named on your policy) make a claim or 
a claim is made against you, and you do not have protected or guaranteed No Claims 
Bonus, your No Claims Bonus will be reduced. Miss Vs policy schedule shows she didnt 
have NCB protection when she took out her policy. And I can see Admiral has applied the 
correct reduction as set out in the policy terms. For these reasons, Im satisfied Admiral has 
fairly reduced Miss Vs NCB. And Admiral has offered Miss V a way to get them back by 
paying the TP claim costs, which I think is reasonable.
After receiving my provisional decision, Miss V contacted our service for confirmation that 
she should contact Admiral if she wanted to take the option of paying the claim to get her 
NCBs back. But Miss V didnt provide any further evidence or comments for me to consider.
Admiral disagreed with my provisional decision, saying it had correctly offered car hire to the 
TP and if it hadnt offered immediate car hire at an early stage, then the claim costs could 
have been significantly higher. Ive now gone on to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss V hasnt provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Admiral disagreed with my provisional decision, saying it had to offer car hire immediately in 
order to try and limit claim costs. As I said in my provisional decision, I think it was fair for 
Admiral to have offered the TP car hire. And Ive seen the car hire started the same day the 
TPs own car went into Admirals repairers for assessment and repair. I think that was fair 
and reasonable of Admiral, as it was trying to limit costs that might ultimately be passed to 
Miss V. 
But the TPs car was then with Admirals repairers for 14 days. And I think thats an 
unreasonably long time for it to have taken to replace a bumper and carry out associated 
paintwork. I think its instead reasonable to expect Admirals repairer to have completed that 
work within a week. Therefore I think Admirals repairer took seven days longer than 
reasonably necessary to repair the TPs car. It follows the TP car hire was needed for seven 
days longer than was reasonably necessary. Given this, it would be unfair of Admiral to ask 
Miss V to pay for these extra seven days of car hire. So if Miss V chooses to take the option 
of paying the claim costs to get her NCBs back, Admiral should deduct seven days of car 
hire from what it asks her to pay - I calculate this to be a deduction of £193.79 including 
VAT.
Putting things right
To put things right, Admiral should pay Miss V the £75 compensation it has itself offered for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her, if it hasnt paid this already. And if Miss V 
chooses to take the option of paying the TP claim costs in order to have her NCBs 
reinstated, Admiral Insurance Company Limited should deduct £193.79 for seven days of car 
hire costs from the total TP claim costs of £1,285.70.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss V the 
£75 compensation it has itself offered for the distress and inconvenience it caused her, if it 
hasnt paid this already. And if Miss V chooses to take the option of paying the TP claim 
costs in order to have her NCBs reinstated, Admiral Insurance Company Limited should 
deduct £193.79 for seven days of car hire costs from the total TP claim costs of £1,285.70. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman