DRN-2316647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1997 Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered both Mr 
and Mrs M for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly 
benefit equivalent to their mortgage repayments. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. I have also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M raised some concerns about how thorough our adjudicator was when looking 
at the complaint. And they also say I cant assume that because the PPI suited their needs it 
follows that they would have bought it. I understand that argument, and I can assure Mr and 
Mrs M that Ive looked at all the information sent in by both parties. The nature of complaints 
like this is that I have to take into account both information recorded at the time of the sale 
as well as memories and opinions from many years later. Having done that, these are my 
conclusions.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs M during a meeting with an adviser from Lloyds, who was 
recommending a mortgage and insurance products. Mr and Mrs M say they werent advised 
about the PPI at the time, and paying for it means they are worse off financially than they 
should be. They say also that they didnt need it because they both had generous 
employment benefits, no debts and substantial savings. Lloyds says none of its records 
show that the PPI was anything other than optional.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds when they 
were discussing the mortgage and PPI. I accept there is a possibility Lloyds said it was a 
good idea to take out PPI in order to protect the mortgage repayments, but I dont consider 
that to be incorrect. The records from the meeting show that Mr and Mrs M wanted to protect 
their mortgage with both life protection and PPI for both of them. The paperwork shows they 
wanted to split the PPI equally between them, and that they answered the sort of questions 
usually asked about a customers circumstances when buying PPI. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs 
M were making choices about the insurance they wanted. Lloyds also sent Mr and Mrs M a 
mortgage offer which included details on both the life cover and the PPI theyd decided to 
buy, and they signed that to accept the offer. 
I cant see anything on the paperwork that suggests that Mr and Mrs M had to have the PPI. 
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds made Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and they 
chose to take it. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI at the time, so it needed to check it was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs M given their circumstances. Mr and Mrs M say they werent advised as to whether 
the policy was suitable for them. Ive already said Im satisfied they did discuss it at the time 
because they made choices about the PPI and answered questions typically asked when 
selling this sort of insurance. I am also satisfied the policy was suitable given Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances and I say this because:
- Both Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
- The policy was split in order to cover both Mr and Mrs M, and appears to have been 
done so because both were working at the time. That seems appropriate to me. 
- Both Mr and Mrs M say they would have received some work-related benefits if either of 
them couldnt work due to illness or accident. But they arent very sure what these were. 
Even if they were generous benefits, the policy would have paid out in addition to these. 
Mr and Mrs M say they had enough in savings to meet their commitments. However, 
there arent any savings listed on the mortgage application form from 1997, so I wouldnt 
expect Lloyds to have factored that into their advice. Mr and Mrs M also say they had no 
additional debt when they applied for their mortgage  but the application form says they 
had £6,500 outstanding on a £7,000 loan. I do understand why Mr and Mrs M cant 
precisely recall their financial circumstances from so long ago, but it does mean Ive 
relied on the records from the time to reach my decision, as these are most likely to be 
accurate.
- I think Mr and Mrs M would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover Im 
satisfied they werent adversely affected by any shortfall in the advice or information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
- Mr and Mrs M were sent details of the cost of the PPI in with their mortgage offer. So 
even if they didnt know this during the meeting when they decided to buy it, they knew 
about it before the mortgage started. Id expect them to query this if they thought it too 
expensive, but I cant see they did this.  Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable 
or that the benefit was insufficient to meet their total monthly mortgage repayments.Its possible that some of the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been, particularly on the things it didnt cover. But as Ive already 
said Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
seems to have been affordable. 
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still 
have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman