DRN-2762514
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have declined her 
claim for damage resulting from an escape of water. 
What happened
Mrs A is the policyholder and she is represented in this complaint by her husband Mr A. 
Mr A tells us that on 1 Feb 2020 they noticed that the washing machine was moving 
excessively. On removing the machine, they noticed that the timber floor beneath was rotten 
and Mr A was able to put his finger through the wood. They suspected the water damage 
was due to a previous leak. 
On 23 October 2020 Mrs A made a claim for the damage to the floor caused by an escape of 
water. The delay in making the claim was due to Mrs A not being able to contact RSA.  
RSA sent out a surveyor to assess the damage on 26 October 2020. He examined the 
interior and exterior of the property and took photographs. Following the inspection, the 
surveyor advised Mr and Mrs A that the joists supporting the floor were damp and rotting. He 
advised that in his opinion, the excessive moisture had been caused by the exterior patio 
which was laid 18 months previously being built higher than the damp proof course. This had 
caused rain water to penetrate the wall making it damp and rotting the joists. The surveyor 
was unable to find any leak which may have caused the damp. 
RSA wrote to Mrs A on 27 October 2020 to confirm that they were declining the claim for the 
reasons provided by the surveyor. 
Mrs A disagreed with the outcome and the complaint was reviewed by a manager. On 14 
December 2020 RSA wrote to Mrs A and advised that they were unable to uphold the 
complaint. They advised that the policy excludes cover for any damage that happens 
gradually due to poor workmanship.  
Mr and Mrs A asked an independent timber and damp specialist to prepare an independent 
report. The survey was completed on 13 December 2020 and the report prepared on 20 
December 2020. The report found that there was deterioration to the joists ends with 
elevated moisture readings adjacent to the rear wall, deterioration of joists below the 
washing machine, and evidence of holes due to common furniture beetle in the floorboards.
 
The report said that the elevated moisture was caused by the joists being in direct contact 
with the damp walls, a longstanding leak from the washing machine, and poor sub floor 
ventilation. These conditions facilitated the beetle infestation, and also brown staining on the 
joists which is Cellar Fungus.  It also said that the damp walls had been caused by a high 
external ground level, allowing rain water to breach the damp proof course. The lack of sub 
floor ventilation had elevated the moisture content. To repair the damage and prevent 
recurrence the work would cost £5000. 
This report was sent to RSA on 21 December 2020. They reviewed the report and confirmed 
that they would still be declining the claim as it confirmed the findings of their own surveyor. 
Mr A further complained and on 5 March 2021 RSA wrote to Mr A to confirm that their 
surveyors had reviewed the report provided and they were still declining the claim because 
both reports were in agreement on the reasons for the damp. 
Mr A was unhappy with this response and brought he complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr As complaint and didnt think that the claim had 
been declined unfairly.   
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint, and I will explain why below. 
In this case I have to decide whether RSA have acted within the terms of the policy, and 
fairly and reasonably in their decision to decline the claim.  
I have carefully considered the reports provided by both RSAs surveyor and the 
independent surveyor, including all the the voice notes, the testimony of Mr and Mrs A, and 
the records provided by RSA.  
For RSA to make payment on this claim, Mr and Mrs A would need to show that an insured 
peril has occurred. In this case, Mr and Mrs A say that the insured peril is an escape of 
water caused by a leaking washing machine. They say that this has caused the damp and 
rotting floorboards and joists. 
The policy does cover Mr and Mrs A for damage caused by an escape of water such as a 
leaky washing machine, but the evidence suggests that this was not the cause. 
When the RSA surveyor inspected the property, he could find no leaking pipes, and he notes 
the floorboards underneath the washing machine were fairly dry. 
The main area of high moisture was the wall which had become damp as a result of the 
patio being built at a higher level than the damp course, causing the water to ingress into the 
brick every time it rained. His view was that this in turn has caused the joists to become 
damp where they meet the walls and rot. 
The report from Mr and Mrs As surveyor also says that the rotted joist ends have been 
caused by being in direct contact with the damp walls, and the high moisture readings noted 
to the joist ends have been caused due to the high external ground levels allowing the rain 
water to saturate the walls and bridge the damp proof course, along with a leaking washing 
machine and limited sub floor ventilation. 
While the second report does mention a leaking washing machine as a cause of high 
moisture in the floorboards, the surveyor does not note seeing any leaking pipes, and it is 
therefore likely that his conclusion is based on instructions from Mr and Mrs A that there was 
a previous leak. As no leak was present at the inspection in October, if one had been noted 
in December, it would be a new leak, not the original cause. 
The second report is also in agreement with the RSA report that the main problem is the 
rotting joists, the cause of which is the high patio and the lack of sub floor ventilation. The works quoted for to remedy the problem include installation of airbricks and installing a 
soakaway to prevent any further water ingress from the high patio, which suggests further 
supports the view that the main operating cause of the damp is the high patio.  
As Im not persuaded by the evidence that the cause of the damp was an escape of water, 
the question is then whether the actual cause of the damp  the raised patio - is an insurable 
peril.  
In the policy there is an exclusion for Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind 
caused by or resulting from poor or faulty design, workmanship, or materials. 
As the problem stems from an incorrectly laid patio, I find that RSA have correctly and fairly 
applied this exclusion following a thorough consideration of the cause of the problem, and  
have appropriately declined the claim.   
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A feel strongly about this and I understand that there is a 
significant cost in correcting the damage and preventing recurrence. However, ultimately, I 
can only look at whether RSA have acted fairly and in this case, I think they have. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc do not need to do anything further.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman