DRN-4277038
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Unum Ltd (Unum) unfairly terminated her claim. 
What happened
Mrs L has an income protection insurance policy underwritten by Unum. She became absent 
in 2017 due to illness. 
Unum reviewed the claim in October 2022 and said it would terminate it from January 2023 
on the basis of an independent medical examination (IME) which said Mrs L may be able to 
do some telephone work from home. 
Mrs L complained to Unum but it didnt uphold her complaint so she referred her complaint to 
this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had terminated the claim 
unfairly. 
Mrs L disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
She doesnt believe Unum has treated her fairly as the IME expert stated a significant 
amount of information had been withheld from him. 
Her GP surgery had only opened its doors for face-to-face appointments from 
February this year and Unum had only provided 12 months of GP notes to the IME 
expert when Covid-19 was rampant and the world had shut down. 
She is now on stronger medication than when the claim was originally accepted pre-
Covid. She was disconnected from mental health services through no fault of her 
own.
She has been forced by Unum and her employer to engage in a number of medical 
appointments and each one has said that she is not fit to return to work in her insured 
role. 
The IME said Mrs L may be able to undertake some work from home should her 
sedative medication be reduced but this does not negate the fact that the IME 
concludes Mrs L is not suitable for her insured role.
Mrs L says nowhere does it state that in order to qualify for the insurance to kick in, 
she has to prove how her disability affects her. 
Mrs L has had her medication increased and the evidence shows she is very much 
incapacitated by her disability. 
Her condition or medication hasnt changed.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2023 which I have copied below:
Once a claim has been accepted, the onus is on Unum to show that the definition of 
incapacity is no longer being met.  
The policy definition of incapacity is as follows:
The member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is:
(a) Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation and is 
(b) Not performing any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3 
(proportionate benefit).
Mrs L said she has been unable to see her GP as it was difficult to get an appointment and 
that is why there was a lack of contact. In addition, she was seeing a mental health service 
practitioner regularly but got lost in their system and they did not contact her until she made 
contact herself and received an emergency appointment.
Unum arranged an IME in August 2022 which was carried out remotely by a consultant 
psychiatrist.  This concluded Mrs L was able to manage reasonably well and said she 
wouldnt be able to return to her usual workplace but would be able to function reasonably 
well at home and may be able to undertake some telephone work at home. In summary, the 
IME concluded:
Mrs L reported long standing symptoms.
The consultant had been provided with less than a years GP records. 
A summary of medical history had been provided. 
Mrs L had said she had experienced some degree of amelioration of her symptoms 
with medication but she was taking a combination of very sedative medications. Mrs 
L hadnt taken her medication in the hours before the examination and so the 
medication may well inhibit her function day to day. 
If Mrs Ls account of symptoms was accurate, she would not be able to return to her 
role in her usual workplace. 
Mrs L does function reasonably well at home and aside from the issue of sedative 
medication, it appears that she may be able to undertake some telephone work from 
home. 
A review of medication was due and it may be worth considering less sedative 
alternatives.
The consultant said the report was limited in scope as he had been given limited access to information.
Further medical evidence
May 2021  Mrs Ls GP surgery provided notes from October 2020 to date. These were 
provided to the IME expert.
6 December 2022  Mrs L saw a psychiatrist about her worsening symptoms who concluded 
this was in relation to ongoing and increased social stressors. They discussed increasing 
medication to help sleep and calm intrusive thoughts. They did not feel Mrs L needed 
secondary care follow up and would be followed up by her primary care team to work around 
mood management and coping skills. 
Mrs L provided Occupational Health (OH) reports and a letter from her mental health 
practitioner. In summary, this shows:
Mrs L had a telephone consultation in January 2023 with an OH doctor about her 
potential return to work. The report concludes Mrs L is not fit to work in an office 
environment but could undertake some work from home. She is not fit for a customer 
telephony role but could undertake some non-customer facing remote work. Her 
return to work would need to be phased.
A further report was written in February 2023 by the same doctor as Mrs Ls 
employer asked whether Mrs L met the medical criteria for formal redeployment. 
The doctor confirmed that in her opinion, Mrs L was permanently or long term 
medically not fit for her role as a customer consultant telephony. The report 
concluded Mrs L was not fit to work in an office environment but could undertake 
some non-customer facing work.
A letter dated 12 May 2023 from her mental health practitioner said Mrs L suffered 
daily with intrusive thoughts, fluctuating mood and panic attacks. She said these 
symptoms affect her life on a daily basis leaving her unable to sustain work.
Having considered all of the above, I dont think Unum acted fairly when it terminated the 
claim following the IME. The IME was done by a consultant psychiatrist who concluded that 
Mrs L may (my emphasis) be able to do some telephone work from home. But he specifically 
said this was aside from the issue of sedative medication. So I dont think the effects of her 
medication were fully taken into account when considering Mrs Ls job role.
The IME expert commented that Mrs L was due a review of her medication and this could 
consider less sedative options but doesnt specify what those options might be. Based on 
this, I think Unum should have gone back to the IME expert and asked further questions 
about the effect of the sedative medication on Mrs Ls specific role and whether she would 
be able to do her insured role from home whilst she was taking her medication. 
I dont think Unum has adequately shown that Mrs L is longer incapacitated based on the 
IME report alone. In addition, the expert referred to further evidence he wanted to see such 
as past medical records and this could have been provided by Unum. The onus is on Unum 
to prove Mrs L no longer meets the definition of incapacity and I dont think the IME report is 
persuasive enough to rely on without addressing the outstanding points outlined by the 
expert, particularly the issue of medication.
Unum also told Mrs L that it would review any further medical evidence Mrs L provided. 
Following Unums termination of the claim, Mrs L saw a psychiatrist and also spoke to an OH doctor. The psychiatrist Mrs L saw in December 2022 did not comment on Mrs Ls ability to 
work and didnt think referral to secondary care services was required. However, Mrs Ls 
medication was increased so I think this further demonstrates that the effect of medication as 
a result of the illness should have prompted Unum to ask the IME expert further questions 
about Mrs Ls function when taking medication. It isnt something which should be 
overlooked before deciding she is no longer incapacitated. 
Following this, Mrs L met an OH doctor who found that Mrs L could work from home but not 
in a customer facing role. Mrs Ls insured role is that of customer facing telephone adviser. 
So I think there is a question over whether Mrs L can perform her insured role which needs 
further probing before terminating her claim. 
Finally, Mrs L has provided a letter from her mental health practitioner who concludes that 
she is unable to sustain work. This suggests she cant work in any capacity and contradicts 
what the OH doctor and the consultant psychiatrist who did the IME say  both doctors felt 
Mrs L would be able to work from home using the telephone in some capacity. So I havent 
placed any weight on this evidence as I dont find it persuasive.
Mrs L says the IME expert concluded she cant do her insured role. But that isnt what he 
said. The IME expert said she wouldnt be able to do her insured role in an office 
environment. This isnt what is insured. Her role is insured, not the location. But as I said 
above, I dont think the expert has sufficiently clarified the effects of the sedative medication 
and this is something Unum should have explored further before terminating the claim.
Mrs L also says her sedative medication was increased. As I dont think Unum fairly 
terminated the claim following the IME due to the outstanding questions about her sedative 
medication, this is something Unum should also have referred back to the IME expert to get 
a fuller and more accurate picture about how Mrs Ls illness and medication affects her 
ability to do her insured role.
Overall, Im not satisfied that Unum has shown that Mrs L is no longer incapacitated. It was 
entitled to refer to the lack of medical evidence suggesting that Mrs L wasnt being seen by 
primary services but she was still taking the same medication as she had always done. So 
its not enough to say she is no longer incapacitated as a result. Additionally, Mrs L has 
provided evidence to show that she was under the care of a mental health service and was 
lost in their system. This explains why she didnt see her GP about her mental health but 
continued to take medication for her illness throughout. In addition, I think Unum should have 
asked further questions of the IME expert to get a better understanding of her function as set 
out above. So it would need to clarify the effect of her now increased medication on her 
insured role before concluding she is no longer incapacitated.
Unum is entitled to review the claim. But needs to show that Mrs L is no longer incapacitated 
for her insured role before terminating her claim. Its not for Mrs L to demonstrate that her 
function is limited. Its for Unum to show that her function is no longer limited. And I dont 
think it has sufficiently done that.
I thank both sides for responding to my provisional decision. 
Mrs L has agreed to my provisional conclusions and has made the following comments, in 
summary:
Her latest sick note from her GP and latest prescription shows the increase in 
medication and that her situation has been made worse.
She would like my direction for Unum to be clear due to problems with her previous complaint and experience.
As Mrs L has a group income protection policy, the policyholder is the employer and so any 
benefit would be paid to her employer to pass on to Mrs L. I am putting Mrs L back in the 
position she would have been in had the claim not been terminated. The claim should be 
reinstated, and backdated payments should be paid to her employer from the date the claim 
was terminated.
I note Mrs Ls increased medication. This is something Unum will need to take into account 
in any further review of her claim. 
Unum has asked me to reconsider my decision and has made the following comments, in 
summary:
Mrs L was seen by the mental health service but this wouldnt give Unum information 
about any restrictions and limitations. Mrs L did not report exacerbation of her 
symptoms. Had her symptoms increased to such a degree that her ability to function 
was impacted, it is expected this would be reported to the GP or a healthcare 
professional.
Mrs L does not need to show that her condition continues to deteriorate once a claim is 
accepted as she has already proven that she is incapacitated. It is for Unum to prove, 
through persuasive medical evidence, that Mrs L is no longer incapacitated. Mrs L has 
explained why she had been unable to see her GP or healthcare professional but in the 
absence of any such reporting, I dont think its fair to conclude that she is no longer 
incapacitated where there is insufficient evidence that her function has improved, taking all 
the relevant factors into consideration.
Being prescribed medication isnt valid grounds for a claim, the claim is to be paid if 
the definition of incapacity has been met and in the absence of contemporaneous 
evidence as well as the recommendation by the independent examiner and OH that 
Mrs L can work, it was fair to cease the claim. 
This is not a new claim which needs to be proven by Mrs L again so being prescribed the 
same or stronger medication suggests she continues to suffer the same level of illness that 
she did when her claim was accepted. The claim cannot be terminated without Unum 
proving Mrs L is no longer incapacitated. I have already explained why I dont think the IME 
report is persuasive enough to terminate the claim and as Unum has pointed out the OH 
reports were based on self-reporting, it is for Unum to gather more robust medical evidence 
to prove that Mrs L is no longer incapacitated.
Having considered both sides responses, I dont see any reason to depart from my 
provisional findings which I adopt as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Unum Ltd to:
Reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit from the date it ceased the claim. 
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on each backdated payment from the date it 
would have been due had the claim not been terminated, to the date of payment. 
This amount should be paid directly to Mrs L. If Unum considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs L 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman