DRN-4326021
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Pi Financial Ltd trading as PI Financial Dixon 
Sutcliffe & Co (Pi Financial) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr T approached Pi Financial in June 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
says he first made contact with Pi Financial as he received a phone call saying he could 
receive a government paid for review of his personal pensions.
Pi Financial completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ts circumstances and 
objectives. Pi Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be medium high or 6 out of 10. 
On 18 September 2018 Pi Financial advised Mr T to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in the Royal London Governed Portfolio 4. Just 
over £79,000 was transferred. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were:
- He wished to access his tax-free cash (TFC) so he could pay off his debts, clear a large 
portion of his remaining mortgage and pay for flights to Australia to visit his son.
- He wanted flexibility to take his pension income as and when he wished.
- He wanted the maximum amount to pass to his wife and non-dependent children should
he pass away.
Through representatives Mr T complained in 2023 to Pi Financial about the suitability of the 
transfer advice because:
- He was a low-income individual near to his retirement age and would never be able to
rebuild his retirement funds.
- His pension funds were put at unnecessary risk, and the transfer meant he was subject
to higher charges.
Pi Financial didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said:
There is clear evidence in the file Mr T was put in an informed position with all relevant 
information supplied
It correctly assessed Mr Ts financial and personal circumstances and conducted his 
review using multiple questionnaires to gather information.
Mr T was placed in a fully informed position with regards to the disadvantages and
advantages of transferring.
Mr T already held an equity-based pension held in a SIPP. Mr T was accessing the tax 
free cash from this pension to help meet his objectives.
Cashflows were produced to demonstrate the effects of different stress tests applied to 
Mr Ts proposed transfer.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Pi Financial to pay compensation. The investigator said Mr T properly advised wouldve 
stayed in his DB scheme as he had always intended to work until 66  and this alongside his 
state pension wouldve met his needs in retirement. The investigator said his objectives for 
immediate cash and different death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over his income 
in retirement.
Pi Financial disagreed, it said the advice met his objectives such as clearing his debt after 
his health scare (Mr T had recently had a heart attack). And that Mr T had done what hed 
set out to do after the advice, accessing his tax-free cash and repaying his debts. And if his 
health further deteriorated he could stop work comfortable in the knowledge he had no debts 
and he had this pension and another that could plug the gap until state pension.
It also said Mr T had some capacity for loss and stress tests were modelled taking his tax-
free cash at 58 matching the scheme income and this alongside his other sources of income 
would last him beyond 99. It didnt agree that properly advised Mr T wouldve favoured the 
guaranteed benefits available in the scheme.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. She explained that this pension 
represented Mr Ts only secure income in retirement. He was already taking money out of 
another pension to help pay his debts but this would mean that pension was exhausted by 
age 66. Meaning his DB pension took on even more importance. She agreed it may have 
been Mr Ts main priority to pay off his debts and why he sought advice but Pi Financials job 
wasnt purely to facilitate a customers wishes. It was instead to assess what was in his best 
interests.
She said the cash models used arent always an accurate way of assessing the financial 
viability of a DB transfer and rely on assumptions that cant be guaranteed and a customer 
withdrawing funds in a specific way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pi Financial's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pi Financial 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ts best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Pi Financial carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his/her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr T was 58 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 66. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ts benefits at age 65 (the normal scheme retirement age) was 17.14%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.3% per year for 6 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
highest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr T giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 17%, I think Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Pi Financial has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr T wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Pi Financials 
models show that it relied on inflation beating returns at 5% every year across two pensions 
for his funds to remain until 99. I think returns of this level year on year are unrealistic. 
Furthermore when you strip out the other forms of income it shows that this pension would 
be depleted at age 69 (graphic shows 69 commentary in report says 72) after taking tax-free 
cash with growth at the middle projection of 2.4% and £700 per month withdrawn from age 
66. This is 13 years before the average life expectancy of age 85. Whilst I appreciate Mr T was concerned he would have a reduced life expectancy following his recent heart attack, 
this wasnt known and his prognosis was good if he lived a healthy lifestyle.
Also, as Pi Financial will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
Pi Financial also carried out a Transfer Value Comparator which showed the transfer value 
offered by his DB scheme of approximately £79,000 would at the time cost £189,000 to buy 
the benefits available in the DB scheme. So essentially the cost of transfer to Mr T was 
£110,000.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Pi 
Financial has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Pi Financial said in their recommendation that Mr T wanted to use this pension for extra 
spending and paying off debts.
But I dont think he had a genuine need to access this pension earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age. I say this because Mr T had little other options for funding his 
retirement available. He did have another pension of similar value to this one but I 
understand he had already withdrawn the tax-free cash from that plan for his 
mortgage/debts.
The fact find and suitability report recorded that Mr T wanted to take benefits early and use 
the tax free cash to pay off his debts, pay off a large portion of his remaining mortgage and 
to take a once in a lifetime trip to see his son in Australia. 
But Mr T has told us he was able to manage his mortgage payments and debts as he was 
still working and receiving an income of approx. £20,000 p.a  and the evidence collated in 
the fact find supports this. The fact find said that following his recent heart attack he wanted 
to make sure he was debt free at retirement, but Mr T didnt intend to stop working until age 
66. 
But given this was Mr Ts only remaining guaranteed source of income in retirement and that 
he was still planning on working for another eight years  I think this objective ought to have 
been something for the future. He also had other income that he could draw on for this use, 
the other personal pension he already had accessed. And he wouldve also received tax free 
cash at age 66 from the DB scheme. This could be used to repay any remaining debts at 
retirement.
Whilst I appreciate Mr T saw the trip to Australia as once in a lifetime, I dont think this 
shouldve been prioritised ahead of security in retirement. The cost of the flights was 
approximately £1,500 and so I think other options for financing this shouldve been explored.
Ultimately I dont think Pi Financial did enough to explore whether his requirements for 
immediate cash meant he needed to give up the guaranteed DB scheme benefits. Pi 
Financial say its advice met Mr Ts needs but its job wasnt purely to facilitate what Mr T 
wanted to do. It should have challenged his requirements and gave its expert opinion and in 
light of the fact that the starting position should be that transferring wont be suitable. If it felt Mr T was set on transferring regardless, it couldve considered him an insistent client, but it 
didnt. So Pi Financial cannot simply say it followed Mr Ts wishes, its responsibility was to 
give advice that was in his best interests. And I dont think that it did.
Im satisfied Mr T could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB scheme at 
66 when he intended to retire. Mr T needed £12,000 per year in retirement according to the 
information gathered by Pi Financial. And under the DB scheme, Mr T was entitled to an 
annual income of £5,216 from the scheme at 66 without tax free cash or approx. £25,000 as 
tax free cash and a reduced annual pension of £3,716. This alongside his state pension 
wouldve met his needs in retirement. Mr T intended to work until age 66 and had another 
pension which hed already made withdrawals from, so I think he ought to have been able to 
finance his holiday plans and manage his debt/mortgage until he reached age 66 at which 
point he could use his tax free cash to meet any outstanding costs/debts. 
Pi Financial have argued his state pension could meet all his needs in retirement. However, 
if Mr Ts needs had been fully explored and challenged, I dont think he wouldve given up  
extra income in retirement (making himself poorer). This was done to pay debts that he had 
under control and a holiday that whilst expensive couldve been financed through other 
means  such as the pension hed already accessed or credit. I appreciate further 
withdrawals from the pension hed already accessed wouldnt have been as tax efficient at 
the time but it would then have allowed Mr T to receive his tax-free cash at age 66 whilst 
retaining guaranteed income in retirement.
Ultimately, Pi Financials advice was very likely to make Mr T substantially worse off in 
retirement in exchange for non-essential requirements that likely couldve been met through 
other means.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pi Financial explored to what 
extent Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr T predeceased them. I dont think Pi Financial made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr T. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, the fund would soon be depleted, so there is a 
good chance Mr Ts spouse wouldnt receive anything in any event. Pi Financial should not 
have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
I acknowledge that Mr T had a health condition and so appears to have had concerns about 
his life expectancy. But Mr T not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility and it 
was also possible that he would exceed this, in which case Mr T would need his pension to 
last longer. If Mr T transferred out of the DB scheme he would be relying on investment 
returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death 
benefits, whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But Pi 
Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr T shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Pi Financial shouldve advised Mr T to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against Pi 
Financials advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Pi Financials advice. I say this 
because Mr T was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of 
Mr Ts retirement provision. So, if Pi Financial had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Pi Financial had 
explained that Mr T could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr T would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Pi Financial should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Pi Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and plans to retire at age 66. So, compensation should 
be based on him taking benefits at this age.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pi Financial should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts Pi Financials offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Pi Financial 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ts 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd trading 
as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd trading as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd trading 
as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman