DRN-2794219
The complaint
Mr S complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) refused to send a payment to a third party. He 
says the experience has caused him and his wife substantial stress and further deterioration 
to their health.
What happened
Mr S held a current account with Lloyds. On 18 September 2020, he made multiple attempts 
on the online and mobile banking service to send £20,000 to a company he was looking to 
invest in. Lloyds has said each time there was a message on the screen asking Mr S to 
phone the bank to approve the payment.
Mr S called Lloyds after the third attempt. The adviser said the payment had been flagged 
for additional verification and made enquiries. Mr S was subsequently told hed need to visit 
a Lloyds branch with identification. As it was a Friday and his local branch was closing soon, 
Mr S visited the branch on Monday 21 September. Further enquiries were made, and Lloyds 
asked Mr S to come back with his wife when he said shed received advice regarding the 
investment. 
Mr S returned to the branch with his wife later that day, and Lloyds told them it was 
concerned about the payment as there had been a high risk of fraud and scams recently. 
Further enquiries were made and eventually the police were called. Mr S has said he and his 
wife co-operated with the polices questions and they were satisfied the company he was 
making the payment to was genuine. As the branch had closed for the day, Mr S was unable 
to send the payment that day. He and his wife visited a different branch on 23 September 
and after checking through the details Lloyds released the payment.
Mr S complained to Lloyds about the way he and his wife had been treated by the branch 
and its fraud team. He sought compensation for the trouble and difficulties they experienced. 
Mr S also asked Lloyds to reimburse him for the loss of interest due to the delay in sending 
money to the proposed investment.
Lloyds said it was sorry for any distress it caused, but security checks were in place to 
protect customers accounts. It said it was sorry if things werent clearly explained during the 
course of enquiries and offered £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But Lloyds refused to cover any lost interest and said the payment was stopped correctly 
due to its fraud prevention measures.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns and thought Lloyds took appropriate 
precautionary measures to protect his account. She acknowledged having the police called 
must have been distressing, but she thought Lloyds had Mr Ss best interests in mind as it 
wanted to understand if hed fallen victim to a scam. The investigator also thought the 
compensation Lloyds had offered was fair as Mr S hadnt suffered any financial loss due to a 
bank error.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. So, the matters been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring Mr S and Lloyds that although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above, so not everything that happened is detailed, Ive read 
and considered everything Ive been provided in its entirety.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
But there has been an increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years which 
banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. In light of this 
environment, there are expectations on banks to put measures in place to identify and help 
prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
To help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm, there are circumstances 
where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline a payment altogether. The proactive 
steps a bank takes may include following the Banking Protocol where appropriate. It is a 
multi-agency initiative between financial sector organisations, Trading Standards and the 
police. It aims to provide consistency around identifying, and acting on, indications of fraud 
and scams.
I can appreciate this whole experience will have been upsetting for Mr S and his wife. I also 
recognise there is a delicate balance to be struck. Mr S is free to spend his money as he 
wishes. However, Lloyds also has a duty to protect him from fraud. That is why his bank 
account terms and conditions explain it can refuse to make a payment if it suspects fraud or 
a scam might be involved. 
I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds should have been on the look-out for 
unusual and out of character transactions. From looking at Mr Ss transaction history, I think 
the transaction in question was out of character and unusual for him. Lloyds made further 
enquiries  first with Mr S and later his wife  about the payment and felt the information it 
had at the time indicated Mr S was potentially at the risk of financial harm. Ive listened to the 
call recordings and can appreciate why Lloyds was concerned  it couldnt satisfy itself Mr S 
had verified the company he was making the payment to was genuine. 
Because of its concern for Mr S and desire to protect him, Lloyds took the decision to 
contact the police. Im sorry to hear Mr S feels he and his wife were kept in custody as 
criminals and this experience has caused damage to their dignity. It was clearly a distressing 
time. But Lloyds had to balance the risk of causing Mr S upset and inconvenience against 
the risk of him losing a substantial amount of money due to fraud or a scam. While calling 
the police in order to try and protect Mr S didnt amount to anything in the end, I do 
understand why Lloyds took this step as a precautionary measure. I dont consider it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to have taken further steps as a result of identifying indicators that 
Mr S was potentially at risk of financial harm. It was ultimately acting to protect Mr S.
I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint, and I acknowledge what hes told us about 
how it made him feel. But as I consider it was appropriate for Lloyds to make further 
enquiries about the nature of the payment, and subsequently call the police, I dont think it 
needs to cover any potential interest Mr S has lost due to the delay in the payment being released. Lloyds has already apologised if it didnt explain things clearly to Mr S. It has also 
offered £75 compensation. Having thought about this carefully, I consider the steps Lloyds 
has already taken to recognise any upset it caused Mr S is fair in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Lloyds Bank PLC has already fairly resolved this 
complaint. I direct it to pay Mr S £75 if the cheque it issued in October 2020 hasnt already 
been cashed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman