DRN-1971066
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limiteds response following a broken bathroom 
sink caused by one of its contractors.
All references to British Gas include its appointed agents. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for these 
reasons:
On the evidence, I am not persuaded that replacing the sink with one of a different 
colour or attempting a repair of the sink were viable solutions. I say this because     
Mr As bathroom suite was of one matching colour, so I can understand his 
reluctance to accept a sink of a different colour which would clearly have looked out 
of place. Ive also seen British Gas internal notes and photographs of the damaged 
sink, which clearly state the sink is cracked all the way round. So it was clear there 
were doubts in the early stages whether the sink could have even been repaired 
given the level of damage. Mr A says an engineer attended the property and told him 
the damage was too great to repair. British Gas notes support this conversation, 
which meant in Mr As eyes a replacement sink was the only realistic option left to 
him. So I dont think Mr A acted unreasonably here.
I dont think British Gas has fully taken into account Mr A and his wifes disabilities 
when looking to resolve this issue. British Gas has said Mr and Mrs A could have 
used the bath or kitchen taps whilst waiting for the replacement sink. Mr A has 
explained in his testimony that he and his wife are both disabled and are unable to 
lean over to use the bath taps as they are too low down. Mr A says that instead he 
and his wife were required to assist each other to the kitchen tap each time they 
wanted to wash their hands. I think this would have been a difficult situation for them, 
and British Gas should have been more sensitive to their circumstances here.
I havent seen any evidence to explain why it took a number of weeks to source a 
replacement sink, apart from the fact it was an older suite. Mr A was originally told it 
would take around eight weeks to source a new sink, given the bathroom suite was 
around 30 years old. But around four weeks later British Gas told Mr A they could 
now source the sink in 2-3 days. Again, Ive not seen any evidence to indicate how 
the sink suddenly became available at short notice, or why this could not have been 
prioritised earlier given the lack of a viable alternative solution.
As such, whilst I acknowledge British Gas did work to find an acceptable solution for 
Mr A, I dont think it was sensitive enough to Mr As vulnerability, and the 
inconvenience caused to him by being without a bathroom sink for a number of 
weeks. So having reviewed everything, I think a payment of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused here would be reasonable. I also think Mr A should be 
compensated for the phone calls he made and find £30 a reasonable amount for this. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr As 
complaint, British Gas Insurance Limited should:
Pay Mr A £280 total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 


Dan Prevett
Ombudsman