DRN-2535659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that ReAssure Limited mis-sold them a decreasing term cover plan 
in 1998.
What happened
In 1998, Mr and Mrs B received a mortgage offer from lender B that included a condition 
they should have a suitable life cover policy in place. A decreasing term assurance policy for 
the amount and term of the mortgage was recommended by the life insurance arm of lender 
B. ReAssure later acquired the policy when it took on the administration of business from the 
life assurance arm of lender B.
Mr and Mrs B say they paid off the mortgage shortly after taking it out, but they continued to 
pay the premiums on the policy they took out in 1998. They complained to ReAssure in 2020 
that although it was mandatory for them to have taken out a suitable policy when taking the 
mortgage, they hadnt been given the opportunity to look for a more suitable and cheaper 
policy at the time. They also said they had told ReAssure it was their intention to pay the 
mortgage off within five-years of taking it out.
ReAssure responded to the complaint and said they didnt uphold it. They said that the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs at the time and confirmed it was the policy of lender B 
that a suitable policy was required as a condition of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with the response from ReAssure and brought their complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for them and thought that 
ReAssure hadnt done anything wrong. The investigator thought the policy recommended 
was suitable at the time and ReAssure only sold their own policies, so they couldnt provide 
advice on other companys products. He also said that it was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs 
R to cancel the policy if their circumstances changed, as the policy wouldnt cancel 
automatically when the mortgage was cleared.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide their 
complaint. They say they werent given the opportunity to obtain a policy that included critical 
illness cover, or to consider whether a level term cover policy wouldve been more suitable, 
or if there was a cheaper policy available from another provider. Mr and Mrs B say they 
werent sold the most suitable policy that took into account their life plans and feel like they 
were mis-led into believing they had to have the ReAssure policy as a condition of the 
mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but for much the same reasons as the 
investigator Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. I will now explain why.
Suitability
Ive seen the fact-find completed by ReAssure and Mr and Mrs B at the time of the sale. This 
recorded Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage agreed with lender B, and that ReAssure discussed 
several key areas of protection in June 1998. ReAssure recommended a decreasing term 
assurance for the balance and term of the mortgage, together with critical illness cover. In 
respect of the critical illness cover, its recorded that this isnt a priority and it wasnt added to 
the policy. 
Ive also noted the fact-find records discussions in several other areas, such as pensions 
and savings, but no other specific recommendations were made by ReAssure in this regard.
As well as the fact-find, Mr and Mrs B say that it was in their life plans to pay off the 
mortgage within a short space of time. And they did indeed pay the mortgage off in full about 
five-years later. 
Its difficult for me to be certain what was discussed at a meeting some 20 plus years ago, 
and in this case the fact-find and the recollections of Mr and Mrs B are somewhat different. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they discussed their life plans with ReAssure at the time, but 
the fact-find doesnt record that this was the case. The fact-find that they signed indicated 
the only thing important at the time was to protect the new mortgage. So, Ive made my 
decision based on what I consider is likely to have happened at the time. 
Im satisfied that lender B required a suitable policy as a condition of the mortgage. Theres 
communication between ReAssure and the solicitor who dealt with the purchase about the 
policy, and this adds significant weight that a suitable policy needed to be in place. The 
policy terms match those of the mortgage Mr and Mrs B applied for, which is what I would 
expect. And as the mortgage completed, its reasonable for me to conclude that lender B 
accepted this policy as suitable. 
In terms of its suitability for Mr and Mrs Bs needs, I acknowledge it didnt have critical illness 
cover, or that level term assurance wasnt put forward as an option. But, it seems likely that 
the primary concern for Mr and Mrs B at the time was mortgage insurance on death, and that 
critical illness wasnt a priority. Indeed, the fact-find records that a mortgage or mortgage 
payment insurance was the only matter highlighted as being important. And, although I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs B had life plans in their minds, I cant say what was discussed in 
this regard, other than critical illness wasnt one of their priorities at the time the policy was 
sold.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B feel a level term assurance may have been more 
suitable, but I dont agree. They had a repayment mortgage offer, so I dont think a level term 
cover policy wouldve been more suitable to protect the mortgage as it wouldve been more 
expensive. I accept a level term cover policy wouldve provided some additional life cover, 
and possibly critical illness cover, for family protection, but from what Ive seen, this wasnt 
Mr and Mrs Bs priority at the time. 
So, taking all of Mr and Mrs Bs comments into account and the evidence Ive seen, I 
consider in all the circumstances the policy sold by ReAssure was suitable. The policy 
matched the term and amount of the mortgage and fulfilled the requirement of lender B for 
Mr and Mrs B to have enough life cover in place.
Opportunity to obtain cheaper cover
Mr and Mrs B obtained a mortgage from lender B, who in turn introduced them to their life 
assurance arm, now ReAssure. They were provided with a recommendation for a suitable policy, but Mr and Mrs B say they werent given the opportunity of shopping around, and that 
they were told they must take out this policy. 
I havent seen anything to suggest ReAssure or lender B told them they had to take a policy 
purchased through ReAssure. But Ive seen that the business that sold the policy, now 
administered by ReAssure, sold only their own policies. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel they 
shouldve been told they could shop around for cheaper and more suitable cover, but 
ReAssures responsibility was to recommend a suitable policy. And Im satisfied they did so 
from the policies available to them. 
Of course, if Mr and Mrs B werent happy with the cost, they couldve explored taking a 
policy with another company, but I cant see that they did this at the time. Its unlikely lender 
B required the policy to be assigned to the mortgage as Ive seen no form of assignment. 
Instead the solicitor who acted for Mr and Mrs B simply needed to confirm to lender B there 
was a suitable policy in place at completion. The policy was separate to the mortgage, which 
also meant there was no requirement for lender B to tell ReAssure the mortgage had been 
paid in full before the end of the term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman