DRN-3957365
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance,
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M took out a 36-month fixed sum loan for £4,000 from Novuna in October 2017. The 
monthly repayments were £184.56 and the total repayable was £6,644.16.
Mr M says he was in financial difficulties at the time and had Novuna done better checks it 
would have seen this. This loan has caused him distress and anxiety, he has been over-
indebted for years. He wants interest and charges refunding and all negative information 
removing from his credit file, including anything registered by the third party Novuna sold the 
debt to and the incorrect alias it has entered.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said Novuna had carried out 
proportionate checks and these did not show there was a risk the loan would not be 
sustainably affordable for Mr M.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Novuna should have done 
more checks. His bank statements would have shown he was reliant on credit and gambling 
heavily. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Novuna will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to
these complaints is set out on our website.
I need to decide if Novuna carried out fair and proportionate checks before lending; if not
what would better checks most likely have shown; and if it did, was the lending decision it
then made fair?
Novuna asked Mr M for his annual income, employment status and residential status when
he applied. It says it verified his income via the credit reference agencies, concluding his
monthly net income would be £1,994.65. Based on his marital status it assumed he paid
half of the monthly rent of £291.88. It carried out a credit check that showed he
had £500 of debt and estimated monthly credit commitments of £14.88 that he was up to 
date with. He had no adverse data such as CCJs or defaults registered against him. Novuna 
concluded after these commitments and the repayments for this new loan he would be left 
with £1,503.33 to cover his other living expenses. It felt this to be reasonable for someone in 
his circumstances and so gave the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate given the value and term of the loan and the size of 
the monthly repayments relative to Mr Ms income. There was nothing in the information it 
gathered that I find ought to have triggered further checks.  Based on what these checks 
showed, as summarized above, I think Novuna made a fair lending decision. I havent found 
anything in the information it gathered that showed it was likely Mr M would not be able to 
sustainably repay the loan.
 
Mr M has told us, and sent supporting evidence, to show he had other loans and was 
gambling regularly. But I find it would have been disproportionate for Novuna to have carried 
out the level of financial review needed to discover this. Mr M says his bank statements 
clearly showed he was having financial difficulties  and I agree they do. But there is no set 
list of checks the lender is obliged to do, and in the circumstances of this case I dont think 
Novuna ought to have asked for sight of Mr Ms bank statements. And I think it was fair for it 
to rely on the findings from the credit check it completed  a lender will often not see the 
same details that a consumer will when they obtain their full credit file  there can be timing 
differences and not all lenders report to all the agencies.
It follows I dont think Novuna was wrong to lend to Mr M. I am sorry Mr M struggled as he 
did. I can see Novuna signposted support, and I hope he now finds himself in a more stable 
position.  
Mr M also raised that Novuna has provided an incorrect alias to the credit reference 
agencies. I can see there is an entry under the Aliases section on the report he sent this 
service, confirmed by Mitsubishi in August 2018. But I cant see that the lender provided a 
details of another name Mr M has been known by. Indeed, the name listed is Mr Ms usual 
name in full  as per the rest of the report. So, I cannot see why this entry is in the alias 
section. Mr M may want to contact the credit reference agency to make further enquiries. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman