DRN-1150768
The complaint
Miss J complains that, in August  2013,  Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a package 
bank account. This was when it added to her existing bank account a Tech Pack, which 
offered certain benefits in return for a monthly fee. 
What happened
Miss J had had a bank account with Barclays since 2009. There was no standing fee for 
holding that account. In August 2013 a Tech Pack was added to Miss Js account. This cost 
was £7.50 per month in 2013, and then £9.50 from November 2015, and £12.50 from 
February 2018. 
The Tech Pack provided mobile phone insurance against loss, theft, breakdown and 
accidental damage; and up to £750 gadget insurance for theft, breakdown and accidental 
and malicious damage. It also potentially gave an interest-free overdraft of up to £200 
(subject to status).
Barclays says it added the Tech Pack after a phone conversation with Miss J in August 
2013. Miss J has no recollection of this. She also says she didnt need the mobile phone 
cover as she had it with her phone company. And she didnt have much need of the 
overdraft benefit.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and decided not to recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Miss J didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make 
a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss J clearly doesnt believe that she agreed to the addition of the Tech Pack. And I agree it 
is possible that it was added without her consent, either deliberately or by mistake. However, 
it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting 
evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires there to be evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be 
fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was several 
years ago. 
And, although Barclays hasnt got a recording of the phone conversation, it has given us 
other evidence that suggests a conversation took place, and also that Barclays told Miss J it 
had been set up:
I have seen a copy of its computer records of a set of questions (and responses) that 
appear to have been asked of Miss J about her needs and circumstances.
There is also a copy of a letter headed Statement of Demands and Needs sent 
August 2013, referring to a conversation held between the bank and Miss J that day. 
It said it had recommended Miss J apply for the Tech Pack and she had agreed to 
take it. It gave details of the insurance cover, and said she could cancel at any time. 
I have to decide what is the most likely thing to have happened. And, although I cant be 
certain, I think its likely that a conversation took place and that Miss J agreed to the Tech 
Pack, even if she now cant remember it. Also, I dont have strong evidence that the Tech 
Pack was added without Miss Js agreement.
Although its not relevant to the actual sale of the Tech Pack, I can also see that two months 
later Barclays sent Miss J an annual summary which set out how much she had paid so far 
for the Tech Pack. And in November 2015, and February 2018, it wrote and told Miss J the 
price was going up. So, on more than one occasion, Barclays made efforts to make sure 
Miss J was aware of the Tech Pack. 
Ive looked at whether Barclays recommendation of the Tech Pack was reasonable; and I 
think it was, in Miss Js circumstances. I dont know whether Miss J had gadgets that would 
be covered, but she did have a mobile phone, and so could have benefitted from the 
insurance (if she cancelled the other insurance she says she had). And potentially she could 
have made use of the interest-free overdraft benefit. But, ultimately, it would have been up to 
Miss J to decide whether she wanted to accept the recommendation. 
Overall, I dont think the Tech Pack was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman