DRN-2134041
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the amount he had to pay The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) 
for the fees charged by a Law of Property Act receiver when he redeemed his buy-to-let 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr E used to have a buy-to-let mortgage with the TMW. The mortgage was due to be repaid 
in November 2018. For reasons which are well known to the parties Mr E couldnt repay the 
mortgage in full in November 2018. In February 2020 TMW appointed a receiver under the 
terms of the mortgage.
Mr E repaid the mortgage in April 2020. The amount he had to repay included £2,067.07 for 
the receivers fees.
Mr E complained to TMW about the receivers fees. He said TMW had told him the fees 
would be £1,000. TMW didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said the fees it quoted at the time 
of the appointment wasnt an exhaustive list and the fees had been added to Mr Es account 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
Mr E wasnt happy with TMWs response to his complaint and referred it to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld. They thought TMW hadnt been unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a separate complaint about the appointment of the receiver so I wont 
consider the appointment in this decision. In addition, I cant consider the actions of the 
receiver. My decision is limited to whether it was fair and reasonable for TMW to require 
Mr E to pay the receivers fees when he redeemed the mortgage.
The mortgage terms and conditions say that Mr E was solely responsible for payment of the 
receivers remuneration. TMW was, therefore, reasonably entitled to add the receivers fees 
and charges to Mr Es mortgage account.
Mr E has referred to a letter TMW sent him in January 2019 saying it would appoint a 
receiver if the mortgage wasnt repaid. The letter gives details of some charges that would 
be added to the mortgage account if a receiver was appointed. But the letter also says you 
will be liable for all costs incurred. Im not persuaded it was reasonable for Mr E to think the 
fees set out in the letter would be the only fees charged to his account.
Mr E has said that if he knew the amount that would be charged by the receiver he would 
have repaid the mortgage earlier. Im not satisfied this would have been possible. The 
receiver wasnt appointed until more than a year after the date when the mortgage should 
have been repaid. I think that if Mr E could have repaid the mortgage earlier he would have 
done so, regardless of the amount he thought a receiver would charge.
In all the circumstances I think TMW treated Mr E fairly and reasonably and was reasonably 
entitled to add the receivers fees to the mortgage account and require Mr E to pay them in 
full when he redeemed the mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I make no award 
against The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman