DRN-3846122
The complaint
A company that I will call T, complains about the settlement of its business interruption 
insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, by QBE UK Limited. 
What happened
T operates as a hotel and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy underwritten 
by QBE. In March 2020 T contacted QBE to claim for loss of income as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. QBE initially declined the claim, and it was not until January 2021 that 
it reversed this decision and accepted the claim in principle. 
Settlement of the claim was offered a month after this, but T was unhappy that QBE had 
deducted the amount T had received under the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme  
commonly referred to as furlough payments. QBE said that furlough payments were a 
saving T had made against cost that would normally have been payable. 
T brought its complaint about the settlement of the claim to the Ombudsman Service. In 
addition to being unhappy with the deduction of furlough payments, T thought compensation 
should be paid for the length of time it had been made to wait for the claim to be accepted 
and settled. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. He thought QBE had acted 
fairly and reasonably by deducting the furlough payments. But that interest should be added 
to the settlement for the amount of time T had waited after it made the claim. Both QBE and 
T disagreed with the elements of this recommendation that did not go in their favour. So this 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same decision as recommended by the Investigator, 
largely for the same reasons. 
Furlough payments
The relevant part of Ts policy contains a calculation for working out the size of the 
settlement of a claim. After describing how the reduction in revenue is initially calculated, it 
says the final settlement is this amount:
minus any sum saved during the indemnity period in respect of such of the 
charges and expenses of the business payable out of gross revenue as may cease 
or be reduced in consequence of the damage
I do note that damage within the policy carries a particular meaning relating to physical 
damage, and Ts claim is not one based on such damage. However, I consider a court would 
interpret this policy in such a way that reference to damage in the above wording be a 
reference to the event that has caused the claim. In this case that event would be the 
occurrence of COVID-19. 
QBE has said that furlough payments are a saving. So, effectively, I need to determine 
whether they are a sum saved in respect of the expenses T would have had to pay, that 
were not payable because of COVID-19.
Furlough payments were paid to businesses by the Government to cover part the cost of 
paying employees. They could not be used for any other purpose (albeit the timing of the 
relevant payments may have meant businesses had already paid staff, and the furlough 
payments acted as a refund of these amounts). Paying employees their wages is an 
expense T would normally have. As a result of the furlough payments, T saved on having to 
pay these wages. So, I consider this can only reasonably be described as a saving on the 
business expenses.
The reason for Ts claim was  in simple terms  the COVID-19 pandemic. The Government 
introduced the furlough payments scheme as a result of this pandemic. So, it follows that the 
saving on Ts normal expenses was a consequence of the cause of its claim.
Based on this, it seems clear that QBE was entitled to calculate Ts settlement taking into 
account the furlough payments being a saving  i.e. to deduct these from the settlement.
I also note the judgment of the court in Stonegate Pub Company v MS Amlin and others 
[2022] EWHC 2549 (Comm), as well as other related judgments. In Stonegate, the court 
considered whether the relevant policyholder in the case should have the furlough payments 
they received deducted from their insurance settlement. So, whilst the court made its 
judgment based on the particular terms of the policy etc. I do consider the judgment to be a 
relevant consideration in Ts case.
The judge in Stonegate determined that furlough payments were deductible from the 
relevant claim settlement, saying at para 270:
"...I hold that the CJRS [furlough] payments did reduce costs payable out of Turnover 
and are to be taken into account under the savings clause."
The clause in question is similar to that in Ts policy, so I think this judgment supports my 
own conclusion in this complaint.
I do note Ts comments that it would have made its employees redundant had it not been for 
the furlough payments, indicating that the wages would not then have been an expense they 
would have had to make so were not a saving. 
However, it has not been suggested that T would have made its employees redundant had 
the pandemic not happened. So, T would have had to pay its employees their wages and 
would not have received any pay-out from the Government to cover these costs. And if they 
had made them redundant  either as a result of the pandemic or otherwise  T would not 
have received the furlough payments it did, so QBE would not be deducting them from the 
settlement. 
Insurance is designed to put customers back in the position they would have been in had the 
insured event not happened. By reducing the settlement by the amount of the furlough 
payment, QBE is putting T back in this position. It has had to pay its employees wages, but 
has also received the (insured) income it might otherwise have.
Ultimately, taking all of the circumstances into account, I am unable to fairly and reasonably 
say that QBE acted inappropriately in deducting the amount of the furlough payments T received, relevant to the indemnity period, from the settlement of its claim.
Interest
When deciding whether its fair and reasonable to award interest, Ive thought about what 
QBE should have done in relation to Ts claim. Whilst I appreciate the difficulties insurers 
faced with claims of this nature, the clarity provided by the courts in the test case does not 
alter the fact that T had a valid claim and that QBEs decision to decline this in 2020 was 
ultimately incorrect. 
Ive noted QBEs point that it needed to wait until the outcome of the test case and ultimately 
it was the Supreme Court that found that clauses such as that in Ts policy provided cover. 
However, I think it was always open for QBE to make that decision and ultimately the 
Supreme Court found that QBEs decision not to provide cover was incorrect.
QBE has referred to Section 13A of the Insurance Act 2015 which provides a remedy when 
an insurer doesnt pay any sums due within a reasonable time. I understand that, under this 
provision, QBE doesnt think it should pay any damages to T. However, while I consider the 
law, Im also required to make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances. My role is to consider what a business might or might not have done 
wrong and to decide on fair compensation if things didnt happen as they should have. I 
acknowledge that this might mean I make a decision which is different to one the courts 
reach but in this case I think its fair and reasonable to do so. 
So, while Ive considered what QBE has said about Section 13A of the Insurance Act 2015, 
the rules in the FCA Handbook allow me to make, amongst other things, a money and 
interest award for what I consider to be fair compensation if a complaint is determined in the 
favour of the complainant. In reaching a decision on what is fair and reasonable Ive taken 
account of the fact that QBE has had the benefit of money it should have paid to T and that 
T has been without that money.
So, I think is fair compensation to put T back in the position it would have been in if QBE had 
not initially turned down Ts claim. As an incorrect decision was made on the claim, I think it 
is reasonable to say that this should not have happened, and that Ts claim should instead 
have been met in 2020. Because this did not happen, T has been left without funds that it 
otherwise would have had, and as it has been without this money, I believe that it is fair and 
reasonable to add interest to the settlement to compensate them for this loss.
Ive noted QBEs point regarding the FCA guidance, but I am unaware of any guidance from 
the FCA that indicates that interest should not be added to the settlement of a valid claim in 
circumstances such as this.
As I consider QBE could have come to the decision to uphold Ts claim in 2020, I consider 
that interest should be payable from when the claim would have been settled as a result of 
this. In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is reasonable that an insurer waits for 
losses to accrue before making settlement. However, it is not necessarily reasonable that an 
insurer wait for the end of an indemnity period before making settlement. Generally 
speaking, I would expect regular monthly payments to be made.
An insurer would need to wait for a period for the claimants loss to crystalise to an extent  
and I consider a period of a month would be reasonable in this case. And then the insurer 
would need some time to assess the claim and losses, before making payment. I consider a 
reasonable time to do this on a claim of this nature would be around a month. I dont 
consider the existence of the FCA test case alters this in the circumstances of this complaint.So, in Ts case, I consider that QBE should have made monthly payments from a point two 
months after Ts insured losses started, until the insured losses were fully paid  taking into 
account the indemnity period and other relevant circumstances. And that interest, at a rate of 
8% simple, should be added to settlement from the date each of these payments would have 
been made, until QBE made its offer of settlement on 23 February 2021. 
Whilst the settlement was not paid immediately after this offer, this was largely due to T 
disputing the deduction of furlough. And as I consider QBE acted appropriately in making 
this deduction, I cannot fairly require it to pay interest on the settlement it had offered for the 
period after the offer was made.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, QBE should pay T interest on the claims settlement. The interest 
payable should be based on T having been deprived of monthly interim payments that 
should have been made during the course of the claim.
The first of these payments should have been paid two months after the date Ts insured 
losses first started to accrue and should have covered Ts indemnified losses for first month 
of these losses. Subsequent monthly payments should have been based on losses for the 
subsequent months.
QBE should pay T interest on the amount of each of these interim payments, for the period 
from the date of each of these interim payments should have been made up to 
23 February 2021. This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple per annum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. QBE UK Limited should put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman