DRN-4132609
The complaint
Mrs G complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) have made an error with 
her account resulting in an outstanding balance.
Mrs G is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs G herself.
What happened
Mrs G says that she has had her John Lewis Partnership Card for many years, and she has 
always maintained a habit of paying off all of the transactions as they are incurred, or very 
shortly thereafter, but she always ensures that the full amount due is paid before the 
payment due date. Mrs G was surprised to see an outstanding balance on the account of 
£1,402.87 on her December 2022 statement which was the final statement before the 
account was closed as JLFS moved to a new partner provider. Mrs G says the previous 
statement dated 14 November showed an amount due of £1,394.42, but she says she paid 
all of the transactions on the statement before the due date of 9 December. Mrs G made a 
complaint to JLFS.
JLFS did not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. They said on review of the account and the 
statements, it appears the final balance on the account was correct. They said they had 
been unable to find any discrepancies between the spending on the account and the 
payments made to the account. Mrs G brought her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He said essentially, he hadnt seen any 
evidence that JLFS has overcharged Mrs G. He said as Mrs G has alleged she has been 
overcharged on the account, the onus is on her to provide evidence to support what shes 
said, but he hasnt seen any evidence to suggest she has been overcharged or the balance 
of the account is incorrect. 
Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said the transactions on the statements were paid in full for the October and 
November 2022 statements before the payment due date, as was the case with every 
monthly statement over the years since she opened this account. She provided a 
spreadsheet of transactions and payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mrs Gs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
As a quick and informal alternative to the courts, our services role is not to reconcile the 
nearly 3,000 transactions which is on the spreadsheet Mrs G has provided us. I appreciate 
this will have taken her a lot of time to compile and I have considered this document in 
reaching a decision, but the onus is on Mrs G to tell us exactly why she believes the 
statement information from JLFS is incorrect.
Mrs Gs statements show a section titled checking your statement. This section says if 
there is a transaction on her statement which she believes is incorrect to call them. So even 
though Mrs Gs statements show the balance, transactions, payments and sometimes 
interest for the statement period, Ive seen no evidence that she has told JLFS that any of 
this information was incorrect at the time the statements were showing what she may have 
believed was incorrect information.
There are a number of factors why Mrs G could have an outstanding balance despite her 
believing all of the payments have been made. These include but are not limited to interest 
which has been charged on the account which Mrs G may not have noticed and therefore 
not reconciled this, the date a transaction was made and which statement period this 
appears in, when a payment has been made and which statement period this appears in, 
and she could have reconciled the payments incorrectly (as not all payments are an exact 
match for previous purchases and payments are sometimes comprising of multiple 
purchases).
Looking at the spreadsheet Mrs G has sent us, there are often times where payments 
havent been made years ago in the same way that she has recently made payments 
(making multiple payments in a short period of time). So its possible human errors were 
made. The spreadsheet shows that between 31 July 2017 (after she had made a payment) - 
8 September 2017 there were transactions totalling £4,933.81. But the spreadsheet shows 
that with the payment Mrs G made on 8 September and the refunds between 31 July  8 
September 2017, the payments totalled £4,876.29 against the transactions of £4,933.81 in 
the same time period. So by comparing transactions and payments over certain timeframes, 
this can sometimes result in different figures. 
This is why one of the possible reasons the spreadsheet shows more payments being made 
than transactions. I say this because the first two entries are payments that were made 
between 1-3 December 2016 totalling £1,034.99. Its likely these payments were made in 
relation to transactions that had already been made, and because these transactions arent 
on the spreadsheet, this could give the impression that she has paid a lot more than the 
transactions on the account suggests. So it would be likely that the spreadsheet would 
always show more payments being made than transactions on the spreadsheet based on 
the timeframe covered.
Our service is limited to how far back we could go here based on our rules. JLFS have 
confirmed that the account was opened 21 April 2006. So the only way that could definitively 
show if there was an error or not would be to add up all of the transactions from account 
opening and compare this with the payments made over this time. But I am unable to go that 
far back and JLFS would not be required to keep statements for over 17 years on their 
systems.
JLFS have provided me with Mrs Gs November 2016 statement. This might be an indication 
of why there was still an outstanding balance on the account when she noticed there was. I 
say this because the statement shows that on 14 November 2016, her new outstanding 
balance was £1,858.72. So one of the issues with Mrs Gs spreadsheet is that this doesnt 
start from her owing £1,858.72 on 14 November 2016. It starts just two weeks after this date. 
And this is why Im persuaded there is a difference in transactions and payments on the spreadsheet, and the reason that there was an outstanding balance. 
Ultimately, Ive not been persuaded that JLFS have made an error with the account. It 
appears there was already an outstanding balance prior to the transactions on the 
spreadsheet and the spreadsheet starts off with two payments which does not show the 
transactions these payments relate to. So it follows I dont require JLFS to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman