DRN-3946376
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about Barclays Bank UK PLCs treatment of them when they were 
arranging a new interest rate on their buy-to-let mortgage. They say they should have been 
able to apply for a new rate earlier, and they received poor service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ks buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays was on an interest rate product which was 
ending on 31 January 2023.
Mr and Mrs K were keen to book a new rate in advance. At the end of August 2022, Barclays 
told them they could go ahead, so they applied for a five-year fixed rate of 3.12%. Barclays 
then said they had applied too early, so they applied again on 3 September 2022. This time, 
nothing happened for a couple of weeks, and the application was finally processed on 22 
September 2022. 
The mortgage was switched to the five-year fixed rate of 3.12% which Mr and Mrs K had 
applied for on 1 February 2023.
Mr and Mrs K complained that Barclays wouldnt allow them to apply for a rate 180 days 
before their existing rate ended, as new customers could. They wanted the rate that would 
have been available to them in early August 2022. They also complained about the service 
they had received.
Barclays said its policy in September 2022 was that existing customers could only apply for 
a rate 150 days in advance  which is what Mr and Mrs K had been able to do. It said it 
wouldnt compensate Mr and Mrs K for the difference between the interest rate they got and 
rates it was offering earlier. It apologised for its poor service, and offered £300 by way of 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept that and asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into 
their complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Barclays was entitled to set its own rate switch windows, and it had 
applied the policy it had in place at the relevant time to Mr and Mrs Ks application. However, 
he thought Barclays had treated Mr and Mrs K very poorly and caused them significant and 
avoidable stress and worry. He recommended it increase its offer of compensation to £500.
Barclays accepted that, but Mr and Mrs K did not. They initially said £500 isnt enough given 
the stress they suffered, but later that they would accept it for non-financial loss. Their main 
concern is that they still think they should be entitled to the mortgage interest rate that was 
available in early August 2022, 180 days before their previous rate ended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the Investigator did, for the same 
reasons.
Ive seen a copy of Barclays rate switch policy. Im satisfied that Barclays correctly applied 
the policy it had in place at the relevant time to Mr and Mrs Ks application. In August 2022, 
Mr and Mrs K could have applied for a new rate up to 90 days before their existing mortgage 
interest rate expired, on 1 September 2022 that changed to 150 days, and on 12 October 
2022 to 180 days.
Mr and Mrs K believe Barclays only increased its switching window to 180 days as a result of 
their complaint. They also say it has treated them unfairly as existing customers, because a 
new customer in August 2022 could have applied for a rate 180 days in advance. Had they 
been able to do that, they could have had a five-year fixed rate at below 3% and would be 
paying around £150 a month less in interest on the mortgage. 
In practice, mortgage lenders regularly change their policies on how far ahead borrowers 
can choose a new interest rate product, depending on market conditions and a range of 
other factors. Theyre entitled to make such decisions for themselves, and theres nothing  
either in law or in the rules of mortgage regulation (although Im mindful that Mr and Mrs Ks 
mortgage, as a buy-to-let, isnt regulated)  to say that they must have the same timeframes 
open to both new and existing borrowers. I also dont accept that Barclays was unfair in 
allowing new customers to apply for a rate further in advance than existing customers. The 
two situations are quite different, and switching lender or buying a new property are far less 
quick and straightforward than a simple rate switch. 
For these reasons, I dont consider a fair and reasonable outcome would be for me to 
require Barclays to compensate Mr and Mrs K because they didnt get a lower rate which 
was available in August 2022. That rate simply wasnt open to them for a start date of 1 
February 2023. Mr and Mrs K applied for, and got, a five-year fixed rate of 3.12%, despite 
Barclays poor communication and poor service. They havent lost out financially because of 
Barclays shortcomings, so I make no award for financial loss.  
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs K received poor service from Barclays. They had to 
make more than one application, and Barclays gave them wrong information or none at all a 
number of times, and caused delay. Barclays has accepted all of that, apologised, and 
offered compensation.
I recognise that this was particularly worrying for Mr and Mrs K. They were applying for a 
new rate at a time when rates were rising generally, and they were extremely concerned 
about missing out, particularly because they say they couldnt have afforded to keep the 
mortgaged property if the rate switch hadnt gone through. I can see that they also had to 
spend more time than they should on the matter. 
In all the circumstances, I think £500 is a fair and reasonable award of compensation to 
reflect the impact of what happened on Mr and Mrs K.
 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs K £500 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint, if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman