DRN-4017744
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled their claim on their 
landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K owned a property that they rented out to tenants. They had landlords 
insurance with UKI. In November 2020 there was a fire at the property after a firework hit the 
roof. Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their policy.
UKI sent a loss adjuster to assess the damage and subsequently accepted the claim. At this 
point, the loss adjuster said that the sum insured was adequate.
Due to the extent of the damage it was decided that the property would need to be 
demolished and rebuilt. UKI arranged for this to be carried out. Once the property was 
demolished UKI went out to tender for the work to rebuild the property. However on doing so 
found that the cost would far exceed the sum insured on the policy. The sum insured was 
around £180,000 whereas the tenders were around £270,000.
Due to this, UKI said it would cash settle up to the sum insured as that is all it was obliged to 
pay under the policy. It indexed linked the sum insured to increase it in line with inflation and 
deducted the costs that it had already incurred. After this the amount offered was around 
£160,000 which Mr and Mrs K accepted.
However shortly after this, Mr and Mrs K contacted this service to complain. They said theyd 
felt pressured into accepting the offer and didnt think UKI had settled their claim fairly. They 
said UKI had initially said the sum insured was adequate and had committed to reinstating 
the property. But had reversed this decision after the property was demolished.
Our investigator contacted UKI to raise a complaint. It responded and maintained its 
position. It said it was only obliged to pay up to the sum insured and it had paid more than 
this in settlement of the claim. It said when Mr and Mrs K had set the sum insured they 
hadnt accounted for the fact that the property was of unusual construction  made of a 
combination of a steel frame and cladding. And as that construction no longer meets building 
regulations it would need to be re-built as a brick construction which would be more 
expensive. So it said to pay for the full amount would be betterment which isnt covered 
under the policy. It also didnt agree it had pressured Mr and Mrs K into accepting the cash 
settlement.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs K asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said as Mr K gave a fair presentation of the sum insured when he took out and renewed the 
policy it wasnt fair for UKI to say he was underinsured just because costs had increased 
while the claim was being dealt with. And UKI had confirmed that it was aware the property 
was of a non-standard construction when it accepted the claim, so this also wasnt a fair 
reason to decrease the settlement later. And she thought that as UKI had already agreed to 
demolishing the property it had entered into a repair contract to complete the work on a 
reinstatement basis and it wasnt fair for it to pull out of this once costs are confirmed.
Mr and Mrs K accepted our investigators outcome. However UKI didnt. It said that the work 
had been project managed by a third party who had instructed the demolishing of the 
property, and this had just been paid for by UKI. So it didnt agree that it had entered into a 
repair contract. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision which stated as follows:
UKI has said the reason it wont pay the full amount for the reinstatement is because the 
sum insured set for the policy was insufficient. Ive therefore started by considering whether 
Mr and Mrs K provided a reasonable estimate when they set the sum insured at inception 
and renewal of the policy.
Was the sum insured reasonable at the time?
When a commercial customer takes out an insurance policy, it is their responsibility to 
ensure they provide a fair presentation of the risk they are insuring, as laid out in the 
Insurance Act 2015. This includes providing a reasonable estimate for how much the 
property would cost to be rebuilt. This is then set as the sum insured which is the total 
amount an insurer will pay in the event of a total loss claim.
Here, Mr and Mrs K used a specialist calculating tool that is suggested by UKI when 
insurance is applied for. And they used this each year at renewal to check the cover 
remained sufficient. As this is the measure that UKI suggest is used to calculate the cost, I 
think Mr K took reasonable steps to ensure he provided an estimate that was within a 
reasonable range.
UKI has said that this wouldnt provide an accurate rebuild cost due to the fact that the 
property wasnt of brick construction. However I dont think its fair that UKI penalises Mr and 
Mrs K for this. As theyve followed the instructions provided by UKI on how to accurately 
estimate this and UKI have provided no viable alternative for how they should have 
estimated the cost. And this is reflected in the internal emails UKI has provided in which it is 
reiterated by claims handlers that Mr and Mrs K couldnt have done more to ensure an 
accurate reflection of the sum insured.
Further, when UKIs loss adjuster attended the property when the claim was made he was 
aware of the non-standard construction and agreed that the sum insured was adequate.
Loss adjusters are experts in building construction and if they thought it adequate I dont 
think it would be fair to say that Mr and Mrs K provided an unreasonable estimate of the 
rebuild cost.
For these reasons, Im persuaded that the sum insured for the property was likely a 
reasonable estimate at the time the claim was made.
Ive therefore gone on to consider why the tenders exceeded the sum insured in order to 
determine if UKI has treated Mr and Mrs K fairly and reasonably.
Why were the tenders higher than the sum insured?
I can see that when the repair work was put for tender in 2022, the cost to rebuild the 
property were significantly higher than that. However this was nearly two years after the 
claim was first made. And UKIs experts have said in the case notes its provided that building costs have increased significantly in the two years the claim spanned for a number 
of reasons including Brexit and the covid pandemic. So from all the evidence, it seems that 
while the sum insured was sufficient when the claim was first made in 2020, price increases 
during the claim meant that it was no longer sufficient when tenders were sought.
Has UKI acted fairly and reasonably?
While the price increases are an unfortunate consequence of the timing of the claim, I cant 
see that Mr and Mrs K could have done anything differently in order to ensure they had 
adequate cover for their property. UKI agree that the estimate they provided at renewal was 
reasonable and it is through no fault of theirs that prices have increased during the claim. As 
Mr and Mrs K have done all they could to ensure the property was sufficiently insured, I dont 
think it fair or reasonable that UKI penalise them for cost increases that were out of their 
control.
Further, UKI initially accepted the claim and it confirmed the sum insured was sufficient. I 
think this would have given Mr and Mrs K the impression that it would cover the full cost of 
the claim. However it was only when it was part way through the work that it said the sum 
insured was insufficient and the full claim cost wouldnt be covered. I dont think it is fair or 
reasonable for UKI to withdraw cover when it has already started to settle the claim, 
especially given the reinstatement included demolishing the property.
UKI have provided a lot of detail about why it doesnt consider that it entered into a repair 
contract by paying for the demolishment, but regardless of whether it did or didnt enter into 
a repair contract, I have to consider whats fair and reasonable.
Essentially UKI accepted Mr and Mrs Ks claim, confirmed the sum insured was enough and 
proceeded to fund the demolishment of the building. It wasnt until the property had been 
demolished that it said it wouldnt be able to fund the full extent of the rebuild. Regardless of 
whether it technically entered into a contract or not, I dont consider these actions to be fair 
or reasonable. UKI gave Mr and Mrs K the impression that it would cover the claim. And 
from everything Ive seen, I am persuaded that at that stage it intended to cover the full cost 
of reinstatement. And it wasnt until it found out the cost of reinstatement that it said it would 
not cover it all. To renege on this once the property has been demolished isnt a fair or 
reasonable way for UKI to treat its customer. Especially as they could have done nothing 
more to ensure their property was sufficiently insured.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that UKI should take over the claim and 
continue the repairs up to the full cost of reinstatement, in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions but without applying the limit for the sum insured.
Compensation
I have also considered the impact the matter has had on Mr and Mrs K. I was really sorry to 
read about the difficult time theyve been through during this claim. A fire claim will always be 
distressing, particularly one where the property is a total loss and needs to be rebuilt. And I 
cant ask UKI to compensate them for the impact of the claim itself, only for any additional 
distress and inconvenience that has been caused due to UKIs own actions.
However, by unfairly declining to pay the full amount of the claim UKI has caused Mr and 
Mrs K significant additional distress. As it has left them with a property that has been 
demolished, unexpectedly without the funds to be able to rebuild it. And due to this decision 
Mr and Mrs K have been unable to make progress on the situation since.
Further, while the property isnt their main residence currently Mr and Mrs K had previously lived there for many years and had only moved out because Mr K was stationed elsewhere 
in the country for work. So it would likely have been more distressing because it was a 
property they intended to live in again.
Mr and Mrs K have also explained that during this time they were going through IVF and Mr 
K was in a serious road traffic accident. So I can see why the poor handling of the claim 
would have had a more significant impact on them during this time.
If UKI had handled this claim fairly it would have agreed to complete the reinstatement work 
when the tenders were received in early 2022. And this would mean the work would be well 
underway if not already complete. Instead Mr and Mrs K have been delayed in the process 
which has prolonged the distress felt in a claim that is already very distressing.
Mr and Mrs K have also said they felt they were put under pressure to accept the offer of 
settlement when it was made. And I can understand why they felt this way. They were told it 
was the final settlement offer, and for those unfamiliar with insurance claims this may feel 
like the only option.
For these reasons I intend to require UKI to pay Mr and Mrs K £1,000 compensation to make 
up for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused by the poor handling of the 
claim.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, I intend to require the complaint to be resolved as follows:
UKI should take on the reinstatement work for the property, covering the full cost of 
the work in line with the policy terms and conditions but without applying the limit for 
the sum insured. This should include any unexpected claim related costs that arise 
as the reinstatement work progresses.
Mr and Mrs K have already been paid a cash settlement, this should either be 
returned to UKI or paid directly to the contractor towards the outstanding work.
UKI should pay Mr and Mrs K £1,000 compensation to make up for the additional 
distress and inconvenience its caused.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional findings. However UKI didnt, it responded raising a 
number of objections, including:
It said I had considered the complaint based on matters that were different to those 
represented by Mr and Mrs K in their original complaint submission.
The calculator Mr and Mrs K used wasnt suitable for properties not built from brick or 
stone and this was made clear in the sales journey. 
The calculator directs users to appoint a chartered surveyor to quote a rebuild cost 
where the calculator isnt suitable, so this is what Mr and Mrs K should have done 
when estimating the sum insured.
I stated that the loss adjuster had confirmed the sum insured was adequate after 
their first visit, however the loss adjuster has confirmed this wasnt the case and the 
first report from the visit states the sum insured is under consideration which is at 
odds with what Ive said.
I insinuated that the fact UKI paid for the demolition of the property implied it would 
also pay to reinstate it, which wasnt the case.I said that I thought UKI intended to reinstate the property, however it pointed out that 
the reinstatement is subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, including the 
limit for the sum insured. 
Should I still decide that UKI should cover the cost of the works, Mr and Mrs K should 
return the settlement already paid and UKI will pay costs for reinstating the property 
based on the originally agreed scope of works as invoices are presented.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has said that my review of this complaint has been on the basis of different matters than 
those presented by Mr And Mrs K when they first brought their complaint to this service. 
When Mr and Mrs K informed UKI that they had brought their complaint to us, they said they 
wanted to check they had been treated fairly by their insurer as they felt the decision to not 
cover the full cost of reinstatement wasnt a fair one. In order to determine if UKI acted fairly, 
in my review I considered how the sum insured was originally estimated and why the tenders 
were higher than the amount initially predicted. I then determined whether UKI had acted 
fairly based on this. 
As my reasoning was different to that of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision in 
order to give UKI the chance to comment on any new points or arguments. But as Mr and 
Mrs Ks complaint was that they hadnt been treated fairly, and this is what Ive considered in 
my review, I dont agree Ive considered different matters to those presented when they 
brought their complaint to us. 
UKI has also said that its loss adjuster didnt confirm that the sum insured was adequate and 
its pointed to the initial report provided and further comments from the loss adjuster since 
my decision. 
While the initial report from the loss adjuster referred to the sum insured being under 
consideration, there were a number of references to the sum insured being considered 
adequate in both external and internal emails that UKI has provided to this service. 
For example, in UKIs letter to Mr and Mrs K in response to their complaint it stated:
adjusters first visited your premises the value at risk of your sum insured was considered 
to be marginally adequate bearing in mind that this was a non standard construction 
property
This shows that the loss adjuster described the sum insured as marginally adequate rather 
than considering it inadequate and that it had been considered before the tenders and UKI 
and assessed it as enough to proceed, rather than to raise an issue of underinsurance. 
Further, there are a number of references to the sum insured being sufficient at the time the 
claim was made in the emails and case notes that UKI provided as part of this complaint. I 
have included extracts from two of these emails provided by UKI, as examples of these 
references:
they [Mr and Mrs K] appear to have done all they can to ensure a correct sum 
insured but with price increases materials etc they find themselves underinsuredunder normal circumstances, the sum insured should have been enough to cover 
the rebuild even using standard materialsIt was only when the tenders have come 
in that it was discovered that the costs were much higher than expected.
Additionally, Mr and Mrs K have maintained throughout their complaint both to us and to UKI 
that the loss adjuster had said to them that the sum insured was adequate from his first visit. 
So considering this account, alongside the evidence provided in UKIs file, this is why I 
concluded in my provisional decision that UKI considered the sum insured adequate when 
the claim was first made. And UKI havent provided anything new that persuades me 
otherwise. 
UKI has also said that the calculator used by Mr and Mrs K when they took out the policy 
specifically states that it is only suitable for properties constructed of brick or stone, which Mr 
and Mrs Ks property wasnt. It says that the website where the policy was sold directs 
customers to instruct a chartered surveyor to get an estimate where the calculator isnt 
suitable. 
Ive considered this but it doesnt change my position. While UKI has said the calculator is 
inaccurate, Ive shown above that its loss adjuster considered the sum insured to be 
adequate. And when asked about the initial sum insured, UKIs loss adjuster stated as 
follows:
The 2nd attachment was provided by the project consultant appointed by the Insured to 
oversee the project. This is also taken from [online calculators] calculations from August 
2021. An extract of an email from the project consultant dated 5th August 2021 (pre tenders) 
as follows. Please note this excludes any allowance for demolition and fees.
We believe costs will be in the order of £140-150k per house based on the floor area and 
the new-build mean rate for Motherwell as obtained from [online calculator] (as attached). 
100m2 @ £1,484.00/m2 = £148,400.00
This indicates that before tenders were sought, even the project manager of the rebuild 
considered a reasonable sum insured to be within the range of what was stated on the 
policy, even when considering the additional cost of the demolition. Which suggests that the 
estimate given by Mr and Mrs K in regards to the sum insured was a reasonable one at the 
time.
Further, the sum insured is the amount it will cost to re-build the property. And while Mr and 
Mrs Ks property wasnt built of brick or stone, the construction no longer meets building 
regulations. This means when it is rebuilt it would need to be constructed differently, likely 
from brick. I therefore dont consider this to have had a big impact on the reliability of the 
estimate, as the rebuild of the property would likely be the same as a property built from 
brick. 
So while I note the advice that the calculator shouldnt be used for non-standard 
constructions, as the sum insured it produced was considered a reasonable estimate, I dont 
find UKIs point about the calculators suitability to be a persuasive one, when considering if 
it acted fairly. As regardless of its suitability, the estimate it provided for Mr and Mrs Ks 
property was considered reasonable at the time of the claim. 
And it is for the reasons I have stated above, that I consider it most likely that UKIs position 
on the claim changed at the point tenders were received. Due to this, it gave no indication to Mr and Mrs K that it may not cover the entire cost of the 
rebuild of the property. And this led to further distress when this position was made clear 
once the property had already been demolished. 
So having considered UKIs response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from my initial findings. 
I note UKIs comments that Mr and Mrs K should return the settlement already paid back to it 
and it will then make payments on receipt of invoices for the reinstatement work. I agree that 
UKI should not pay any more than the total cost of the reinstatement work, including the 
amount already paid. It will be for UKI and Mr and Mrs K to agree the most suitable way of 
ensuring this. 
Finally UKI has said that reinstatement should be based on the original scope of works. As 
Ive said UKI should pay the full cost of reinstatement in line with the policy terms. This 
would not include anything that falls outside of policy scope, however should reasonably 
include any unexpected claim related costs that werent apparent until work begun. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. I direct U K Insurance Limited 
to:
take on the reinstatement work for the property, covering the full cost of the work in 
line with the policy terms and conditions but without applying the limit for the sum 
insured. This should include any unexpected claim related costs that arise as the 
reinstatement work progresses.
UKI should only pay the full amount of the reinstatement, less the amount paid to Mr 
and Mrs K already. The cash settlement already paid to Mr and Mrs K for the 
reinstatement works should either be returned to UKI or paid directly to the contractor 
towards the outstanding work. 
pay Mr and Mrs K £1,000 compensation to make up for the additional distress and 
inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman