DRN-4177892
The complaint
Mr M is represented. He says Mayfair Capital Limited (MCL) is responsible for losses 
incurred from unsuitable investments made within his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
MCL disputes his claim and says it inherited the SIPP in a 2017 account transfer; it was not 
Mr Ms financial adviser; it properly assessed his investor profile upon the account transfer; 
the investments it made with him were suitable; and they were agreed by him, with full 
disclosure (to him) and understanding (by him) of the associated risks.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. He mainly found as follows:
The SIPPs investments were previously managed by Logic Investments (Logic). In 
2016 MCL began onboarding some of Logics customers and on 11 May 2017 Mr Ms 
SIPP management account was transferred from Logic to MCL. His complaint 
against MCL was made in July 2022.
MCL confirms there is no financial adviser linked to the account. Mr M does not recall 
initiating the transfer, but MCL says he did. The individual/firm who he says facilitated 
it was possibly an unauthorised introducer, as there is no trace of him (or the firm) in 
the regulators register or in the records of Companies House. In these 
circumstances, Logic and MCL probably somehow initiated the transfer, because it 
was not advised and there appears to have been no clear and obvious benefit to    
Mr M to move the account.
MCL relied on the Know-Your-Customer (KYC) information for Mr M it inherited from 
Logic, without verifying its accuracy. Due to that, it missed inconsistencies within the 
information that ought to have been noted and addressed. Information about his total 
net worth included the value of his home, without that value his net liquid assets 
outside the SIPP were worth £25,000. It was unclear whether (or not) the SIPP was 
his only retirement provision. Information that said he was prepared to expose 37% 
of the SIPP (£15,000) to high risks and speculative investments was inconsistent with 
the medium risk investor profile he was given, especially as MCL did not know the 
sort of investment exposure he had outside of the SIPP.
MCL says the KYC information was less than 12 months old and Mr M knew he was 
to update his adviser on any changes. However, MCL knew no adviser was linked to 
the account.
MCL did not properly assess Mr Ms profile, which it was required by regulation to do. 
In addition, shortly after the transfer the SIPP was worth around £36,500; evidence of 
the contents of the SIPP after the transfer shows that it lacked diversification in 2017 
(exposure to only five holdings, three of which were in the same mining sector); in 
2018 leveraged overseas Exchange Traded Notes (ETN) holdings were introduced 
to the SIPP, which exposed it to higher risks (including currency risks); in 2019 the 
ETN holdings were replaced by Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) holdings and more 
mainstream stock trading; and by 2023 the SIPPs value had fallen by around 60% 
(around £22,000) to £14,500.
Overall, the following were unsuitable for Mr Ms profile  the lack of diversification; 
the exposure to higher risks, overseas holdings and currency risks; and the short-
term speculative stock trading. 
The investigator set out how redress for Mr M should be approached, using his medium risk 
profile to inform the selected redress benchmark, and limiting the redress calculation to the 
period between the transfer and the date of settlement. He also found that he should be paid 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience the complaint matter had caused him. 
MCL did not consider it fair to be held fully responsible for Mr Ms loss. It contends that it 
acted on his investment instructions. It shared email evidence from 2016 in which an 
investment instruction was issued by him to Logic for what it describes as a significant 
portion of the SIPP (at a value of £10,800). The email was put to Mr M and he said he could 
not recall it. He insisted that he had never requested a trade and had only ever acted on 
advice. The evidence did not alter the investigators view. He noted that as of the transfer 
from Logic, the SIPP did not match Mr Ms profile so MCL should have advised him to 
rebalance its contents. 
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider it helpful to set out the following parameters for this decision:
Mr Ms case is about the alleged unsuitability of investments within his SIPP and the 
loss of value that he says resulted from that. The complaint submissions made by his 
solicitors allege specific regulatory breaches by MCL in the matter, in support of the 
core claims about unsuitability and loss. This service is not the regulator so the 
alleged breaches will not be addressed in isolation, instead they are implicit within my 
treatment of the core claims.  
The complaint is about MCL. It took over the role of investment manager for the SIPP 
in May 2017. It disputes being Mr Ms financial adviser. Investment management can 
be based on a discretionary, advisory or execution-only service. Neither party refers 
to a discretionary service, so that is irrelevant. MCL appears to have argued, or at 
least suggested, that it managed the SIPP on an execution-only basis, but the 
evidence it refers to for support is from 2016 (prior to it taking over the SIPPs 
management in 2017). In contrast, there are common accounts between both parties 
that describe an arrangement in which investment recommendations for the SIPPs 
portfolio were made by MCL and approved by Mr M before being executed. 
Examples of MCLs accounts are in its complaint response, where it said Mayfair 
Capital provided investment advice within the SIPP itself once the funds were 
received  and  balanced advice was provided on every transaction with the 
client confirming that they were happy to proceed. Furthermore, there is an Authority 
To Deal form for the SIPP signed by an official of MCLs on 5 April 2017, which 
describes MCL as financial advisor for the SIPP. Overall, I am satisfied that an 
advisory investment management service was provided by MCL to Mr Ms SIPP.In the context of its advisory investment management service, the advisory element 
triggered MCLs regulatory responsibility to give suitable advice (and the 
responsibility to properly assess Mr Ms profile for this purpose). 
Given that the complaint is about MCL, my consideration of the SIPP portfolios 
suitability (and the matters associated with that) must begin at the point MCL 
received the transfer of the SIPP account. My consideration is also confined to its 
role as advisory investment manager for the SIPPs portfolio. In other words, MCL 
cannot reasonably be held responsible for the state of the SIPP portfolio it inherited 
because it played no role in advising the portfolios contents prior to the transfer; its 
responsibility relates to how it advised management of the portfolio after the transfer.
I note the investigators brief consideration of the circumstances leading to the 
transfer of the SIPP, and I understand why he looked into that. However, given that 
the complaint is about what happened after the transfer, it does not appear 
necessary to be drawn into what happened prior to that, especially as the relevant 
circumstances are unclear.
I am not persuaded by the notion of MCL relying on Logics KYC information for Mr M. I 
acknowledge that the information (which was from August 2016) was less than a year old 
when MCL took over the SIPP. However, it would have been acutely aware that it had 
undertaken full responsibility for suitably advising the management of the SIPPs portfolio 
thereafter. The need to ensure it was satisfied with information about Mr M, with the 
assessment of his profile and with the suitability of the portfolios contents was paramount. It 
could not reasonably rely on anything Logic had previously done as a basis to discharge its 
new and ongoing responsibilities. MCL, not Logic, held those responsibilities.
As such, regardless of the fact the KYC information was relatively recent, it was incumbent 
upon MCL to review and verify its contents  or to conduct its own KYC exercise afresh  
before proceeding to review Mr Ms investor profile and the contents of his SIPP.
MCL received the SIPP portfolio with around £10,300 in cash and around £28,300 worth of 
in specie investments within it. In April 2017, the month before the transfer, around £20,000 
(in market value) of the investments were in three mining companies. This amounted to 
around 70% of all the portfolios investments, and just over 50% of the entire portfolios 
market value. In the rest of the portfolio were the cash holding and a BMW stock holding. 
Presented with a portfolio in which just over half of it (and around 70% of the investments in 
it) was committed to a single sector, MCL ought reasonably to have identified a need to 
rebalance it for the sake of diversification. There is no evidence of an insistent instruction 
from Mr M that opposed such rebalancing. In August 2017, three months after the transfer, 
the same three mining sector holdings remained and they occupied even more of the 
portfolio  around 60% (in terms of market value). 
My first key observation is that MCL failed, at the outset, to address a somewhat obvious 
problem with diversification within the portfolio. 
MCL advised the ongoing management of the portfolio, so the underlying investments 
changed over time. On balance, I do not consider it appropriate to isolate every individual 
change it recommended. Isolating these events creates the risk of redefining MCLs role 
unfairly. It did not give advice for isolated investments and/or trades. It was engaged in the 
ongoing advised management of the portfolio. Its role should therefore be considered in the 
context of how the portfolio was managed overall and, to provide added substance, with due 
regard to the key moments of changes in its composition. As I said above, MCL began its role in 2017 with a failure to rebalance the portfolio and 
address the lack of diversification. Based on account statements and investment activity 
evidence, between 2018 and 2023 the portfolio behaved broadly as follows:
Around late 2018 only one of the mining sector holdings remained. It appears to have 
been illiquid and it had a nil market value in the relevant account statement. The 
remainder of the portfolio held corporate bonds, GBP cash and USD cash. 
[The portfolio held GBP cash until late 2021; then a GBP cash holding reappears in 
the 2023 account statement; the portfolio held USD cash from 2018 up to 2023.]
A roughly similar composition (as in late 2018) existed around late 2019. However, 
the notable difference was that the mining sector holding regained some value. 
Earlier in the year, there was short-term trading in ETNs.
ETFs featured in the portfolio in 2020. The mining sector holding remained. Earlier in 
the year the corporate bonds showed nil values in the relevant account statement. By 
late 2020 they appear to have been consolidated and renamed, but they showed a 
consolidated nil value  this continued to be the case up to 2023. 
Early in 2021 the portfolio had five holdings  the two cash holdings, the consolidated 
bond holding, the mining sector holding and an ETF holding. By late 2021 there were 
more ETF holdings and there were overseas stock holdings. 
In 2022 the portfolio appears to have been broadly similar to what it was in late 2021. 
By May 2023, it no longer held ETFs, the nil value consolidated bond holding 
remained, the mining sector holding remained, and two overseas stock holdings 
remained.
Mr Ms profile at the point of the transfer in 2017 was key to how MCL approached its 
management of the portfolio. There does not appear to be evidence of changes from him 
thereafter, so it seems the same profile should have been relevant to the ongoing 
management of the portfolio. Unfortunately, a 2017 profile was never properly established. 
Instead, MCL seems to have proceeded mainly on information from the 2016 profile. 
It could argue that this, on its own, did not create a problem, especially if there is no 
evidence of a significant change in Mr Ms circumstances between August 2016 and May 
2017. However, I consider that it was problem because, as I said above, MCL needed to 
satisfy itself about the assessment of his profile, in order to properly advise on the portfolios 
management. Firms routinely conduct profile and portfolio reviews, afresh, in circumstances 
where they inherit or receive transferred accounts/portfolios and it should have done the 
same. Had it done that, it would probably have noted and addressed the flaws and gaps in 
the pre-existing KYC information that the investigator referred to. 
In that information, Mr M was presented as having quite a high capacity for loss (60-70%), 
yet his net liquid worth was around £25,000. The SIPP itself was worth less than £40,000 
and there was no information about any additional pension arrangement. Applying a capacity 
of loss of up to 70% to these amounts creates significant impacts  around £7,000 surviving 
in the former and around £12,000 surviving in the latter. If the SIPP, alone, lost 70% of its 
value (around £28,000) Mr Ms net liquid capital of £25,000 was insufficient to cover that 
loss. Available information suggests that he had around £2,000 per month in net disposable 
income. If this was verified to be accurate, it would have taken him over a year to use all 
such disposable income to cover a 70% loss in the SIPP. The above illustrates how information on Mr Ms capacity for loss was either wrong or, at 
best, doubtful. The same applies to information about his capacity for high risk/speculative 
investments in the SIPP. This capacity was defined as being £15,000. However, this was 
almost half the value of the SIPP. The same body of information said the composition for the 
SIPP was to be a combination of medium-risk and high-risk investments. Exposure of almost 
half the SIPP to high-risk investments and the rest to medium-risk investments would not 
have produced a result to match Mr Ms medium-risk investor profile. Instead, it would 
probably have produced an overall, and mismatching, effect of a majority high risk (or a high 
to medium risk) portfolio. 
I repeat, MCL should have reviewed Mr Ms profile and the SIPPs portfolio afresh at the 
outset. It failed to do that, and missed the need to address important flaws or, at least, 
doubts in the profile it inherited. This adds to its failure to address the lack of diversification 
in the portfolio it inherited. In this context, the portfolios advised management between 2017 
to 2023, as summarised above, happened based on an unreliable and arguably inaccurate 
investor profile. Therefore, it can reasonably be said that, because of this and by implication, 
MCLs advice for the portfolios management was, and was destined to be, unsuitable. In 
other words, its initial and ongoing advice were fundamentally affected by use of the 
unreliable/inaccurate investor profile.
Further findings relate to the portfolios journey, which is also summarised above. The values 
of the cash holdings fluctuated over time. The overall impression given is not that they 
existed for the defined purpose of counter-balancing the risk-based investments/trading 
taking place but that, especially with regards to the GBP holding, they existed following 
liquidations and pending use for new investments/trading. 
The ETN holdings presented higher risks to the portfolio, given their unsecured nature and 
the credit and liquidity risks that can be associated with them. Evidence suggests that those 
traded in the SIPP had arguably added risks in terms of being leveraged (thereby increasing 
the scope for potential loss, in return for the increased scope for potential gains). 
In comparison to gilts (or government bonds), corporate bonds can hold higher risks (due to 
them generally having higher credit risks). The summary above shows how such higher risks 
materialised in the SIPPs corporate bond holdings and affected the portfolio between 2018 
and 2023. I have not considered their suitability based on the losses they caused. I have 
done so with regards to their existence in the portfolio prior to their loss of value and at times 
when the ETN and other short term speculative trading was taking place. They appear to 
have contributed to the increasing exposure to risks, in the portfolio, during these periods. 
The currency risks in the overseas stock trading that took place also had a similar effect.
Overall and on balance I consider that the SIPPs portfolio was managed, on MCLs 
unsuitable advice, beyond a medium risk profile. That mismatched Mr Ms medium risk 
profile. 
For all the above reasons, my conclusion is that MCLs advice for the management of Mr Ms 
SIPP portfolio was unsuitable.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to the position he would 
probably now be in if MCL had not given him unsuitable advice for the investment of his 
SIPP portfolio.I consider that, with suitable advice, the portfolio would have been invested, and would have 
behaved, differently. It is not possible to say precisely how the portfolio would have been 
suitably invested, and how it would have performed, but I am satisfied that redress to Mr M 
should be based on the benchmark in the table below. The benchmark matches the medium 
risk profile he had, and I explain below why it has been selected. 
Mr Ms case features a transfer of his SIPP portfolio to MCL. As I stated in the previous 
section, MCL should have conducted reviews of his profile and of the suitability of the 
portfolios contents at the outset. This would have taken some time, and I consider it fair to 
reflect a reasonable period of time in the redress calculation for this purpose. Having 
received the transfer on 11 May 2017, it ought reasonably to have concluded these reviews 
(up to and including the provision and execution of its advice) within around a month and a 
half. Therefore, the portfolio should have been suitably rebalanced from 1 July 2017 
onwards, and this will stand as the start date for the calculation of redress. 
Mr M is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with MCL to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, that it does not already 
have. 
To compensate Mr M fairly, MCL must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms SIPP portfolio with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to 
him in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
MCL is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it 
must tell Mr M the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly 
to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he is or is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he has been 
or would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation. 
Provide the details of the calculations to Mr M in a clear and simple format.
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the complaint 
matter has caused him, especially in terms of having to witness a 60% loss in his 
pensions value following unsuitable advisory management from MCL.investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Ms 
SIPP 
Portfoliostill 
exists    FTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total Return 
Index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index)1 July 
2017date of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the illiquid 
investment (or its illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M 
agrees to MCL taking ownership of the illiquid investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes 
to. If that is not possible then MCL may request an undertaking from Mr M  to be drawn up 
at MCLs expense  that he repays to MCL any amount he may receive from the illiquid 
investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in future.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations
simpler, I will accept if MCL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr M had a medium ATR.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ms medium ATR can be found in this benchmark. It broadly 
reflects the sort of return he could have obtained from the SIPP portfolio had it been 
suitably rebalanced, and thereafter suitably invested. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000, £375,000 or £415,000
(depending on when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to
us) plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the
compensation limit the respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such
balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and
it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such
balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in
this respect before deciding whether to accept the decision.In Mr Ms case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 (it began in 2017) and
the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2022, so the applicable compensation limit
would be £170,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order Mayfair Capital Limited to 
calculate and pay redress to him as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman