DRN-4455240
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the way in which Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a claim made on 
her travel insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Mrs G dislocated her hip whilst abroad in late 2022. She made a claim on the policy to cover 
certain expenses including medical expenses and return flight. 
Unhappy with the time taken to assess her claim, Mrs G complained to Great Lakes. 
In its final response letter dated June 2023, Great Lakes accepted that it shouldve provided 
better customer service to Mrs G. It apologised for the delays. 
It also said it would consider paying 71% of the parts of the claim covered under the policy. 
Thats because Great Lakes says Mrs G failed to declare certain medical conditions when 
applying for the policy. 
By that stage, Mrs G had already brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator requested information from Great Lakes to enable him to consider whether 
it had acted fairly and reasonably. When he didnt receive what he requested from Great 
Lakes, he recommended Mrs Gs complaint be upheld. 
He recommended Great Lakes pay Mrs G £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - and to reassess the claim on basis that it wasnt fair and reasonable to 
apply a 29% deduction to the parts of the claim it said were covered under the policy. 
Mrs G accepted our investigators opinion. Great Lakes responded with some of the 
information requested but despite our investigator again asking it to provide particular 
information he needed to investigate the complaint, this wasnt provided. 
Our investigator notified both parties that the complaint will be passed to an Ombudsman to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. It mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
Great Lakes decision to proportionately settle the claim
Despite several detailed requests for particular evidence, Great Lakes has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with only limited information. For example, it hasnt been able 
to provide a copy of the relevant terms and conditions of the policy or evidence of the 
questions Mrs G was asked when applying for the policy. 
Great Lakes has said in its final response letter that it would only consider paying 71% of the 
parts of the claim which are covered under the policy. Thats because it says Mrs G failed to 
disclose information about her medical conditions and medical history when applying for the 
policy. 
It has provided internal emails from the end of 2022 that had certain medical conditions been 
disclosed when applying for the policy, Mrs G wouldve been charged around £39 more for 
her travel insurance. As such, it says Mrs G only paid 71% of the premium she ought to have 
been charged for the policy. However, again, despite repeated requests, Great Lakes hasnt 
provided its underwriting guidance to support this. 
The law potentially relevant to this complaint is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (like in this 
case). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case Great Lakes) has to show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
On more than one occasion (including on 11 and 26 September and 3 November 2023) our 
investigator asked Great Lakes to provide the recording of the call from when the policy was 
originally taken out to understand what questions Mrs G was asked when applying for the 
policy, and what medical conditions she was asked to disclose. However, Great Lakes hasnt 
provided this evidence. So, importantly in this case, I dont know what questions Mrs G was 
asked. 
In her complaint form to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mrs G says she recalls telling 
Great Lakes when applying for the policy that shed dislocated her hip over six years ago. 
And she was told she only needed to declare medical issues within the last five years. 
On the balance of probabilities, and in the absence of a recording of the call or confirmation 
of the questions asked of Mrs G, Im not persuaded that she failed to correctly answer 
questions about her medical history or medical conditions when taking out the policy. 
As such, I dont think Mrs G couldve made a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance 
with CIDRA. And Im satisfied Great Lakes hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by saying it will 
only proportionately settle 71% of the parts of the claim covered under the policy.
Customer service and delays
In its final response letter dated June 2023, Great Lakes accepts that its customer service 
fell below the accepted standards in this case and there were delays in assessing the claim. 
I dont think an apology is enough to put things right in this case. For example, from its 
internal system notes, Im satisfied Mrs G submitted her claim in January 2023 and there were many months where her claim wasnt progressed. From the limited information 
available to me, Im not persuaded there are good reasons for the delay in assessing - or 
providing Mrs G with a decision on - her claim. 
Im satisfied that this wouldve caused Mrs G unnecessary upset, frustration and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for her. 
I think £250 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which the Financial Ombudsman Service informs Great 
Lakes that Mrs G accepts this final decision, I direct Great Lakes to:
- reassess (and, subject to Mrs G providing any evidence required by Great Lakes to 
support her claim, pay) the claim Mrs G made on the policy on the basis that she 
didnt make a qualifying misrepresentation when applying for the policy  and it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable apply a 29% proportionate settlement to the parts of 
the claim it has accepted as being covered under the policy. 
-  pay Mrs G £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Other issues
Once the claim has been reassessed, if Great Lakes declines to pay any aspects of the 
claim and Mrs G is unhappy about that, shes free to raise those concerns directly with Great 
Lakes in the first instance. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman