DRN-2185056
The complaint
D is a business partnership. The partners complain that Lloyds Bank PLC took too long to 
remove a partner from their fixed rate loan so they could sell a property.
What happened
The partners had a fixed rate loan from Lloyds, secured on a property. One of the partners 
left the partnership and, in December 2018, D asked Lloyds to remove her as a party to the 
loan. 
The process of removing the partner was completed at the end of April 2019. The property 
was sold in November 2019.
The partners complained to the bank, saying that the bank had taken too long to remove the 
other partner from the loan. They said the delay resulted in the partnership having to pay 
unnecessary interest on its loans and a higher break cost, plus solicitors fees for chasing 
the matter with the bank.
Lloyds acknowledged that there had been a delay when the relationship manager was trying 
to find how Ds request could be carried out, as it was more complex than initially thought. 
The bank paid £500 compensation for the frustration caused by the delays, plus £180 to 
cover the solicitors fees.
The partners said the compensation was inadequate, so they referred their complaint to this 
service. They pointed out that the break cost quoted in January 2019 was about £41,000 but 
the break cost they paid in November 2019 was over £56,000. In addition, they paid the 
costs of servicing the loan during the delay.
Our investigator considered the evidence and arguments from both parties. She didnt 
recommend that Lloyds should pay anything further, and gave the following reasons, in 
summary:
Initially the bank thought the removal of the departing partner would require novation 
of the agreement and security. But when it came to light that the property was to be 
sold, a simpler solution was possible. 
In the period before the bank knew the property was to be sold, it could have been 
quicker. The partnership was inconvenienced by the banks delay during this period. 
In the circumstances, £500 is an appropriate amount to reflect the inconvenience, 
and the cost of the extra solicitors work has also been reimbursed.
The partners have said they had a buyer in place, with an agreed price. But then the 
structure of the deal changed between April and November  there was a new buyer. 
The sale wasnt completed until November 2019. 
The investigator didnt think the bank could be held responsible for the change of 
buyer and the work needed to sort out the financial position. As the sale took from 
April to November to complete, after the outgoing partner was removed, the 
investigator couldnt say the delay in the sale was caused by the bank.
The partners didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. They said theyd been in no 
position to sell the property until the outgoing partner had been removed, so the bank is fully 
responsible for three to four months delay prior to 30 April 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint the partners but Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Lloyds has acknowledged the delay that followed Ds request to remove the departing 
partner, when the bank thought a novation and a new legal charge would be necessary. But 
the bank says the delay was largely before it was advised of the proposed property sale. The 
delay was inconvenient for the partners and caused their solicitors to send chasing emails, 
but I dont think it would be fair in the circumstances to hold the bank responsible for losses 
that later flowed from the timing of the sale. 
In any event, Im not persuaded that the eventual sale of the property would have been 
completed three to four months earlier if there had been no delay by the bank early in 2019. 
D says the change of buyer happened between April and November 2019. Lloyds removed 
the outgoing partner at the end of April and D accepts that the bank isnt responsible for the 
time consumed after 30 April. From what Ive seen, the timing of the completion seems to 
have been very largely determined by the switch to the new buyer and the processes that 
followed. 
I think the compensation Lloyds has paid D for inconvenience and solicitors costs was fair 
and reasonable. For the reasons given above, I dont require Lloyds to pay anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman