DRN-3824738
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs W complain about how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) calculated their renewal premium for their buildings insurance 
after their home was destroyed in a fire.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs Ws property is listed and has a thatched roof. The property was covered by a 
Home and Lifestyle insurance policy with NFU. In September 2021, Mr C and Mrs Ws 
property was destroyed by a fire, leaving them without a first floor or thatched roof. As this 
was an insurable event  Mr C and Mrs W made a claim against their Home and Lifestyle 
insurance policy. But when they received a quote on renewal of the policy in July 2022 Mr C 
and Mrs Ws saw their monthly premium had increased with the policy schedule showing the 
property as being intact. Mr C and Mrs W told NFU their property was now a shell, without a 
roof, and was uninhabitable. And that most of their contents had also been destroyed but 
they had kept some of what remained in a secure outbuilding. They added that their current 
accommodation was covered by the sites commercial insurance. 
After contacting NFU Mr C and Mrs W said they were offered a new renewal quote showing 
the property as being unoccupied and with reduced content cover. But the main cost of the 
policy was the thatched roof, and this was still being considered in the quote despite it no 
longer existing. Mr C and Mrs W complained to NFU.
NFU said their policies are written based on indemnifying customers. So, in this case the 
renewal was based on replacing the building to its original state prior to a claim. Added to 
which Mr C and Mrs Ws property was a listed building and as such it had to be rebuilt to the 
same original construction. 
Mr C and Mrs W didnt think this was fair given the main financial element of the renewal 
calculation was for the thatched roof, which no longer existed. They referred their complaint 
to us.
Our investigator said NFU had looked for options to cover Mr Cs situation, but as the 
property had to be rebuilt to include a thatched roof, they couldnt remove this from Mr Cs 
renewal quote. Mr C and Mrs W didnt agree they said other insurers offered limited peril 
options and it wasnt fair for NFU to provide cover for a building that comprised three walls 
and no roof. Mr C and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFU said it had taken ownership of the building works to restore Mr C and Mrs Ws property. 
As Mr C and Mrs W havent raised any concerns about the fire damage accident claim I 
wont comment further on this. Only on the crux of this complaint the calculation of the 
renewal premium.
I can understand Mr C and Mrs Ws frustration as they say they are being asked to pay a 
premium for something that isnt there. But having considered the evidence Im not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
An insurer is entitled to decide what risks theyre willing to accept and doesnt have to offer 
insurance to everyone who asks for it. So, I cant tell NFU what price it should charge Mr C 
and Mrs W for their insurance. Thats for them to decide, based in part on the risk they think 
there is and their wider commercial requirements. In reaching my decision I need to be 
satisfied that the insurer has legitimately exercised its commercial judgement, and whether 
NFU has treated Mr C and Mrs W fairly, in line with their own processes, procedures and 
underwriting criteria, and in the same way as it would any of its other customers. 
When a policy is to be renewed the insurer will decide how much to charge for it. And this is 
usually  based on information gathered about the consumer and their circumstances.
NFU said their policies are written based on indemnifying their customer. Indemnifying 
means putting the consumer back into the position they were in before any loss or damage 
happened. So any insurance policy would be calculated on the basis that Mr C and Mrs Ws 
property would be put back to its previous condition.
Ive considered Mr C and Mrs Ws renewal policy for both July 2021 and July 2022 after the 
fire. I can see both say:
"Sums insured Please check your insurance schedule to make sure everything's insured for 
the right amount. Where the insured amount is too low, any claim you make may be reduced 
to reflect this. For buildings, you may find the residential rebuilding cost calculator on the 
BCIS (Building Cost information Service) website helpful. Thatched or listed buildings need a 
professional valuation as the rebuilding cost can be more than the market value. 
Ive considered the policy schedule which says any settlement is based on replacement 
cost.
In the July 2021 Statement of Home and Lifestyle Insurance I can see the rebuilding cost for 
Mr C and Mrs Ws property was shown as £428,331. But in the statement for July 2022 this 
had been reduced to £250,000 to reflect what remained of the property. 
And the renewal quote also says:
"Claims - any claims in the previous year can increase the premium charged for a policy."
NFU has shown they calculated Mr C and Mrs Ws renewal policy based on replacement of 
the building to its original condition. Mr C and Mrs Ws property is listed so any building work 
would be subject to the agreement of a conservation officer. So, NFU based its criteria when 
calculating Mr C and Mrs Ws renewal quote on rebuilding their property to its original 
condition which included a thatched roof. They would have also considered the risks 
associated and this would include consideration of any previous loss claims when assessing 
the cost of a renewal policy. 
Mr C and Mrs W said that other insurers offer limited peril options. A peril is an event or 
cause of damage listed in the policy as being covered, e.g. fire, flood, storm, theft. So Mr C 
and Mrs W wanted  insurance that excluded the thatched roof from any peril. But this isnt 
something that NFU currently offer. But they have said if the risk changed for example the property was de-listed and/or the roof construction changed (no longer thatched) they could 
look to re-consider the terms of the policy.
So whilst I can appreciate Mr C and Mrs Ws frustration at the renewal premium offered, 
NFU is entitled to review their risk criteria and apply their calculated price. And Mr C and  
Mrs W are free to take their business elsewhere if they dont like the renewal terms offered. 
So Im unable, in all fairness, to say that NFU unreasonably calculated Mr C and Mrs Ws 
premium. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman