DRN-2889115
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vitality Health Limited trading as VitalityHealth hasnt refunded any 
premiums, and that it hasnt honoured his claim.
What happened
Mr P held a private health insurance policy with Vitality. The relevant policy period was 
between 1 June 2019 and 31 May 2020. Mr P didnt renew his policy for the following year.
There is extensive background to this complaint which is known to both parties, and our 
investigator outlined these in detail. So, Ive only summarised the key issues and arguments.
Mr P complains that:
Due to issues with Vitalitys health app he missed out on points. Under this complaint 
specifically, Mr P is unhappy about the points he has missed out on in April 2020. He 
accepts Vitality credited the points when he raised this, but he thinks it should do more 
considering the trouble he had to go through to sort it out.
Vitality didnt offer the same benefits during lockdown  and the alternatives it offered 
werent of similar value or desirable.
Vitality didnt honour a claim it approved while he held the policy, and this had an impact 
on the renewal premium.
His premiums have increased while Vitality hasnt offered the same quality product.
To put things right, Mr P wants Vitality to refund three months worth of premiums because it 
hasnt offered the same level of benefits during the Covid-19 global pandemic.
Vitality has responded to Mr Ps concerns with the following:
Mr Ps concerns about missing out on points were addressed in a previous complaint, 
and he brought this complaint to us too late. But as for the missed points in April 2020, 
Vitality paid the shortfall in points as a gesture of goodwill.
When customers werent able to use some benefits during lockdown, Vitality offered 
alternatives and additional benefits. Vitality also said many healthcare services it 
provided were still available during lockdown, such as virtual consultations and 
therapies, as well as an additional Covid-19 cash benefit. Vitality also said urgent 
treatment was being prioritised and continued during this time.
Vitality had introduced a Premium Saver Option which included a 50% reduction in 
premiums for three months during the Covid-19 pandemic  but this also meant a 
reduction in cover. But this wouldve still allowed Mr P to continue with the same 
underwriting terms. Vitality says Mr P didnt want this option as he wanted a reduction in 
premiums without the reduction in cover.
Mr P didnt go ahead with the treatment Vitality approved before he cancelled the policy. 
Vitality didnt think any delays here were its fault, or within its control. Vitality also 
confirmed that it wouldve covered the claim had Mr P not cancelled his policy.
The benefits Mr P refers to (Partner and Rewards) are provided to customers at no 
additional cost. And the terms allow Vitality to change the benefits it offers.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that:
As Vitality had addressed some of Mr Ps complaint points already in November 2019, 
we might not be able to consider those as he brought them to us too late. But we could 
look into our jurisdiction under a separate complaint, if Mr P wanted. Our investigator 
said the points she wouldnt consider under this complaint were about the benefits 
Vitality offered during lockdown and Mr P missing out on points.
The policy terms say that Vitality wont pay for treatment after the policy is cancelled, 
even if its authorised in advance. Overall, she didnt think Vitality had done anything 
wrong by not paying for the treatment after Mr P cancelled the policy, or that Vitality had 
caused delays in Mr P accessing treatment.
The offer Vitality made to reduce the cost of Mr Ps policy  with the reduction in cover  
was fair and reasonable. Our investigator was also satisfied that Mr P wouldve still been 
able to benefit from his policy during the Covid-19 global pandemic. So, she didnt think 
Vitality needed to do anything else.
She couldnt see that Vitality had done anything wrong when it set Mr Ps premium at 
renewal.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. Heres what I said:
Firstly, I can only consider issues that Mr P has first given Vitality the opportunity to 
address. And where Mr P isnt happy with Vitalitys response, I can consider the issues Mr P 
has brought to our service in time.
With that in mind, as our investigator explained, if Mr P wants us to consider the issues 
Vitality addressed in its final response letter in November 2019, well look into these 
separately. This is because well first need to decide if we have jurisdiction to investigate 
those issues. Our investigator explained that shed be happy to set up a separate complaint 
for these issues, if Mr P wanted. Ill leave it with Mr P to get in touch with our investigator, if 
he wants us to do that.
That said, I do think there are some issues our investigator didnt consider that we can  
namely, Mr P missing out on points in April 2020, and the benefits Vitality offered during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. This is because Vitality addressed these issues in later final responses. 
So, I will be considering these in my provisional decision.However, our investigator also considered Mr Ps complaint about premium increase at 
renewal. But I cant see Mr P has raised this specific complaint with Vitality. So, I dont think 
this is something I can consider at this point. If Mr P wants to pursue this complaint, hell 
need to raise this with Vitality first so it has an opportunity to investigate and respond to his 
concerns. If Mr P would like to raise this as a complaint with Vitality, he can let our 
investigator know who can help direct his complaint to Vitality.
I also note that Mr P raised further issues in response to our investigators view. But again, I 
cant consider these points until hes given Vitality the opportunity to look into the issues first.
Ill now address the points that I can consider under this complaint. Specifically, these are 
the issues that Vitality addressed in its final responses dated 21 May 2020 and 8 June 2020.
Impact of the Covid-19 global pandemic on Mr Ps policy
Its clear that Vitality wasnt able to offer the same service during the unprecedented 
circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic. Independent hospital resources were 
needed to support the NHS and this had an impact on the private services that they were 
able to offer. But I dont think this is something I can hold Vitality responsible for, as the 
circumstances were outside of its control.
I accept this was outside of Mr Ps control as well. But he still had a private health insurance 
policy, and it covered him if he needed any other eligible treatment. Vitality also offered other 
healthcare services beyond in-hospital treatment, and these continued to be available  for 
example, virtual GP consultations and referrals and other remote specialist consultations 
and treatment. Vitality also said urgent treatment was being prioritised and continued during 
this time.
Vitality offered to reduce Mr Ps premium by 50% for three months. But this also meant 
reducing Mr Ps cover for those months. The policy wouldnt be eligible for Covid-19 cash 
back benefit or the 25% Waitrose benefit, and Vitality also applied a further three-month 
waiting period for any new planned inpatient or day-patient admissions only. This meant that 
there was some reduction in cover for six months in total. But Mr P didnt want to take up on 
this offer, as he wasnt happy with the reduction in cover.
Taking everything into account, I think what Vitality has done is fair and reasonable. The 
issues around private hospital treatment were wholly outside of its control due to the 
unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic. But Vitality offered a 
reduction in Mr Ps premiums for three months, albeit with reduced cover. This wouldve also 
allowed Mr P to benefit from having cover in place in case he needed any other eligible 
treatment, and he could continue to have cover without a break in cover, or a change in the 
underwriting terms.
Other benefits available on Mr Ps policy and missed points
Mr P isnt happy with the loss of some of the rewards on the policy  for example, coffee 
vouchers. Vitality offered alternatives, but Mr P says these arent of similar value or equally 
desirable.
Vitality has said these particular benefits (or rewards) are provided to customers at no 
additional cost, and the terms allow Vitality to change the benefits it offers.Again, the reason Vitality wasnt offering the same benefits was due to the Covid-19 global 
pandemic  so, I think this was outside of Vitalitys control. But I can see that it offered 
alternatives. And in any event, Ive looked at the policy terms and they do allow Vitality to 
change the benefits it offers.
Its unfortunate that Mr P wasnt happy with the alternative benefits. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Vitality has done anything wrong here.
I can also see that when Mr P complained about the missed points in April 2020, Vitality 
credited the missing points to Mr P. I havent seen enough to say that Vitality should do more 
here.
Mr P is also generally unhappy with the changes in the policy over the years. Mr P says his 
premiums have increased while Vitality hasnt offered the same quality product. But its not 
for our service to say what policy a business should offer, and at what price. If Mr P wasnt 
happy with the policy, he had the option not to renew his policy at any point  as he decided 
to do in 2020. I havent seen enough here to say that Vitality hasnt treated Mr P fairly or 
reasonably.
Mr Ps claim
Mr P got in touch with Vitality in late November 2019 about an issue he was having, and 
Vitality gave Mr P the option to use its approved consultant. Mr P said in early January 2020 
that he wanted to use his own one, but as the consultant was abroad, he didnt go back to 
Vitality about the claim until March 2020. At this point Vitality accepted the claim, but Mr P 
couldnt go ahead with the appointment due to the Covid-19 global pandemic. Mr P wants 
Vitality to honour the claim it approved while he held the policy.
The policy terms say that Vitality wont pay for treatment thats received after the policy has 
been cancelled, even if its been authorised in advance. This is a standard term in private 
health insurance policies, so I dont think Vitality has done anything wrong in not paying for 
Mr Ps treatment after he cancelled the policy. I dont think the delay in Mr P receiving 
treatment was due to any issues that I can hold Vitality responsible for.
Having considered all the issues Mr P has raised, and I can consider, I dont think Vitality 
has treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably. So, I dont think theres anything more it needs to 
do, to put things right.
I invited both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. Mr P responded and said he wasnt happy that I hadnt upheld his 
complaint even though hed provided many examples, including Vitality not providing the 
service it should to its members. Mr P was also concerned that hed pursued this on behalf 
of other members, and I had sided with a huge conglomerate.
Vitality didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not within my  or our services  remit to look into how financial businesses operate in 
general. My role is to look into the circumstances of an individual complaint, and to make an 
impartial decision. And thats what Ive done here.Ive thought about what Mr P has said in response to my provisional decision. But he hasnt 
raised any new arguments that I hadnt already considered. For the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision, I dont think Vitality has treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably.
Having considered everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions as I did in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. Overall, I dont think theres anything more 
Vitality needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman