DRN-1474286
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (trading as Go Skippy) 
cancelled his motor insurance policy and are pursuing him for the costs associated with this.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence available, Im satisfied Mr B provided Go Skippy with a valid No 
Claims Discount (NCD) and so, Go Skippy cancelled the policy in error. 
Go Skippy cancelled the policy because the underwriter says it wont accept any 
NCD that is used on another policy. But that wasnt the case here. Go Skippy had in 
fact misinterpreted the NCD document, so it wasnt the underwriting criteria that 
affected things, it was Go Skippys error.
Go Skippy said it was acting under the instruction of the underwriter, but that wasnt 
the case. Go Skippy said they didnt need to refer to the underwriter, as the NCD 
document didnt comply with the Terms of Business guidelines. And I accept its point. 
But it was its error, in misinterpreting the NCD, that led to the cancellation as 
opposed to anything else.
I think Go Skippy could reasonably have either contacted Mr B or Mr Bs previous 
insurer to query the dates on the document, if they were concerned that he had use 
of his NCD elsewhere. Its likely this would have prevented the policy from being 
cancelled, and Mr B wouldnt have had any cancellation or broker fees to pay.
On this basis, I dont believe its fair or reasonable for Go Skippy to ask Mr B to pay 
the costs they incurred when they cancelled the policy. Although it is fair that Mr B 
pays for his time on cover as he was insured, but he shouldnt have to pay any 
additional costs.
 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited (trading as Go Skippy) should:
Waive the broker fee, the direct debit fee, the cancellation fee and any other costs 
incurred;
just leaving Mr B to pay his time on cover. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman