DRN-2121091
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs M complain through a claims management company (CMC), that they were 
given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
From the limited information available, in 2001 Mr and Mrs M were both 64, didnt have a 
mortgage and were receiving a joint pension income of around £730 per month. There isnt 
any record of their outgoings, but it was noted that they had around £42,000 in joint savings 
and Mr M had around £15,600 in shares.  
Their attitude to risk was assessed as low-medium, they were looking to generate extra 
income from their savings and they were advised to invest £34,000 in a with-profits bond. 
In 2019 the CMC complained to Lloyds and said, in summary:
All of Mr and Mrs Ms funds were invested in a single, complex and high-cost 
managed fund. This was unsuitable as it lacked diversification and had unnecessary 
costs. Their capital should have been spread across different funds to reduce risk.
Their ISA allowances werent used.
They werent fully informed of all the costs associated with the fund recommended.
The return they received was poor compared to a portfolio of low cost funds with an 
equivalent asset allocation. This must have been due to excessive costs and/or poor 
management which should have been avoided.
Lloyds upheld the complaint. They thought the investment met Mr and Mrs Ms requirements 
of providing a regular income but were concerned about the amount that theyd been 
advised to invest. They believed that a lower amount would have been more appropriate.
They thought Mr and Mrs M should only have been advised to invest £10,411.75. To put 
things right they compared the difference between what Mr and Mrs M invested and what 
they should have been advised to invest  £23,588.25  to a Bank of England Bond Rate 
benchmark plus interest. They paid Mr and Mrs M £6048.40 in redress.
The CMC didnt agree with the redress and brought the complaint to us. They thought, in 
summary:
The problem wasnt with the amount invested, but with where Mr and Mrs Ms money 
had been invested. 
They had ISA allowances available and these should have been made use of, by 
way of a diversified portfolio of funds, in line with their attitudes to risk. 
Regular withdrawals could have been made to give Mr and Mrs M the income they 
required.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think Lloyds needed to 
do any more. He thought, in summary:
It wasnt reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to risk so much of their money, when 
theres no evidence they had extensive knowledge of investment risk or had ever 
taken a risk with their savings before.
Whilst Mr M did hold shares at the time, theres no evidence to show hed held these 
for an extensive amount of time or that he was actively involved in their performance.
He appreciated the points raised about ISA allowances. But because Mr and Mrs M 
wanted monthly income, investing in an ISA wouldnt have been the best advice to 
give them, as the idea of an ISA is to lock money away for a longer amount of time, 
in order to reap the tax benefits.
He thought Lloyds had proposed fair redress and the methodology was in line with 
what he would expect.
The CMC disagreed, they thought it was beyond doubt that Mr and Mrs M wanted to invest 
the full amount in order to achieve a better return than deposit accounts. Therefore, it wasnt 
fair or reasonable to base a large proportion of the redress on deposit accounts.
As theres been no agreement, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do any more. Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the recommendation. They were both in receipt of pension 
income, they had around £42,000 in joint savings and Mr M had around £15,600 in shares. 
On balance, I dont think the advice to invest £34,000 or nearly 81% of their available capital 
into the with-profit bond was suitable. Even though it was a low risk investment, it posed 
some risk to a large proportion of their capital. And given that Mr M was also exposed to risk 
through the shares he held, I think the recommendation meant that too much of their capital 
was exposed to risk.
Thats not to say that a smaller investment in a low risk investment such as a with-profits 
bond wouldnt be suitable. There is no particular reason why Mr and Mrs M wouldnt wish to, 
or it wouldnt be suitable for them to invest some of their money in a low risk product in order 
to give them the opportunity of a higher return and provide the income they required. In this 
instance it was simply the amount that was too high.
The CMC have said that Mr and Mrs M wanted to invest the entire amount of £34,000  and 
redress should be based on a comparison of that amount to the FTSE Private Investors 
Income Index. But I dont agree - given what Ive said above, my view is that advice to invest 
a smaller amount of their money would have been more appropriate.
Therefore, the remaining sum of money should have been held onto without exposure to risk 
 in a product such as a fixed term deposit account. And a fair measure to calculate redress 
on this sum is to compare it to the benchmark Lloyds have used. The index the CMC has 
suggested is used as a comparator for investors who wanted to take some risk. And 
because I dont think Mr and Mrs M should have been advised to invest this sum and be 
exposed to more risk, it wouldnt be fair to use the index the CMC has suggested.
Taking everything into account, despite what the CMC has said, Im satisfied that the redress 
methodology used by Lloyds is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not going to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2020.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman