DRN-2944391
The complaint
Miss M says Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
that she had a significant amount of other debt when Quid Market approved these loans. 
This was caused, in part, by a medical condition that could lead to compulsive spending or 
borrowing. Miss M thinks that Quid Market should have found out about all of this and not 
lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Quid Market provided to Miss M in August 2019 
and January 2020. Ive included a table below which contains some of the information 
Quid Market has provided about the lending. 
Miss M has taken four loans in total from Quid Market but loans 1 and 2 have been 
considered as part of another complaint. So, Im not looking these two earlier loans here. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 15/08/2017 £300.00 4 28/12/2017
2 29/12/2017 £500.00 4 01/05/2018
break in lending
3 12/08/2019 £300.00 5 24/12/2019
4 28/01/2020 £500.00 3 05/09/2020
Quid Market has considered Miss Ms complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong 
when it approved loan 3. But, it upheld Miss Ms complaint about loan 4. It offered to ensure 
Miss M only repaid the capital borrowed and to remove the loan from her credit file. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Quid Market wasnt wrong to 
have approved loan 3. He agreed that Quidmarket shouldnt have approved loan 4, but he 
thought the offer it had already made was fair. 
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She thought that Quid Market should have 
made better checks into her finances and health situation before approving these loans. If it 
had done this it wouldnt have lent to her. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ive explained why below.
Quid Market offered to ensure that Miss M only repays the capital on loan 4 (and I 
understand this is what has happened). And to remove this loan from her credit file. This is 
similar to what I wouldve awarded if I were to uphold an irresponsible lending complaint 
about this loan. I think this offer is fair and Ive included it in my putting things right section 
below. So, I wont look at loan 4 in detail. Ive gone on to consider the sale of loan 3. 
For loan 3 Miss M needed to make three monthly repayments of £255.91. Ive seen a record 
of the information Miss M provided when she completed her loan application. Miss M said 
she had a monthly income of £2,800 after tax and she had regular monthly outgoings of 
around £900. 
Quid Market looked at a screen shot of Miss Ms bank account to verify her income. And it 
looked at some information from a credit reference agency. This showed Miss M had higher 
credit outgoings than she declared by just over £400. 
But even after it adjusted Miss Ms outgoings for these higher credit expenditures it would 
have been reasonable for Quid Market to think that Miss M could afford the repayments to 
this loan. 
Miss M has said that he has a medical condition that can lead to compulsive spending or 
borrowing. I can see that she has been through a difficult time, and I hope things have 
improved for her. But Ive not seen any indication that Quid Market was aware of this. And 
the checks it made were otherwise proportionate. So, I dont think it would be fair to uphold 
Miss Ms complaint for this reason. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Quid Market was made aware of 
any financial problems Miss M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Quid Market to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Quid Market did for loan 3 were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve it was reasonable. Im not upholding Miss 
Ms complaint about loan 3. 
Putting things right  what Quid Market has agreed to do
Quidmarket has agreed to:
Ensure Miss M only repays the capital borrowed to loan 4.
Remove loan 4 from Miss Ms credit file. 
I think this is fair way to resolve Miss Ms complaint about loan 4 and I recommend that she 
accepts it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
If Miss M accepts this decision then Stagemount Limited should put things right by taking the 
steps above if it has not already done so.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman