DRN-2830508
The complaint
Mr R complains UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI), didnt provide 
him with a courtesy car.
   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
After Mr Rs car was vandalised, he was entitled to a courtesy car under the terms of 
the motor insurance policy he held with UKI. In the event a courtesy car cant be 
provided, Mr Rs policy says UKI would pay him £15 per day he was without the 
courtesy car.
The company that provides UKI with courtesy cars wasnt prepared to offer one to 
Mr R, and they told UKI this was due to a previous incident between them and Mr R. 
However, this information wasnt shared with UKI until after Mr R had reserved a 
courtesy car. While UKI wasnt responsible for this decision, they didnt think it was 
fair Mr R wasnt aware of this sooner. Because of this, they offered him £25 for the 
inconvenience he experienced. UKI also offered Mr R £15 per day, for the five days 
he would have been entitled to a courtesy car under his policy. So, a cheque totalling 
£100 was sent to Mr R for the inconvenience he experienced and the £75 loss of use 
of a courtesy car.
Given it was the rental car companys decision not to provide a car, and UKI werent 
aware of this until after Mr R had reserved a car, I cant agree UKI could have told 
Mr R they couldnt provide a courtesy car any sooner than they did. And as Mr Rs 
policy only pays up to £15 per day if a courtesy cant be provided, I consider the £75 
offered for the five days loss of use is fair in the circumstances. I also consider the 
£25 offered for the disappointment and inconvenience Mr R experienced was fair 
given the short timeframe in which UKI dealt with his claim; and Mr Rs concerns 
regarding the courtesy car, and Ive done so by giving weight to the fact the rental car 
companys decision was out of UKIs control. Because of this, I wont be asking UKI 
to do anything further to put things right.
Its for UKI to decide which companies they want to work with, and we dont have the 
power to tell them not to work with the rental car company who said they wont rent 
cars to Mr R. As such, it is, and always has been for Mr R to choose a motor 
insurance policy thats best suited to his circumstances.
If Mr R is unhappy with the rental car companys decision not to provide him with 
vehicles, then that is something hell need to take up with them directly. As such it 
hasnt formed part of my decision.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Rs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about UK Insurance Limited trading as 
Churchill Insurance.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman