The complaint
Mr C has complained about a personal loan he took out with Everyday Lending Limited. He 
says that Everyday shouldnt have lent to him as the loan was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr C took out a loan with Everyday for £3,000 over a period of 36 months, with 
a monthly repayment of £292.89. Mr C said Everyday shouldnt have given him the loan as 
he couldnt afford to repay it. He said he was already struggling financially and was in a debt 
management plan. He complained to Everyday.
Everyday said theyd carried out sufficient checks that showed Mr C had enough disposable 
income to cover his monthly repayments. And that the purpose of the loan was to clear some 
of Mr Cs existing debt thereby reducing his monthly financial commitments.
Mr C wasnt happy with Everydays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everyday had carried out proportionate checks based on factors such 
as the type and amount of credit. But said these showed that Mr C was having
problems managing his money. And after reviewing his bank statements for the three 
months prior to the loan being made, showed Mr C didnt have sufficient disposable income 
to repay his monthly loan commitment. He said Everyday should
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given all
the loan. Any repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount and if
this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be
refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments
were made until the date of settlement) and
if any capital balance remains outstanding should attempt to arrange an affordable
and suitable payment plan with Mr C and
to remove any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file relating to the loan.
Mr C accepted our investigators outcome. But Everyday hasnt responded, so the complaint 
has been reviewed for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
DRN-2051440Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are whether Everyday carried out proportionate checks. And 
whether the loan made was affordable and sustainable for Mr C.
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Mr C required them to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Mr C could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr C. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about the 
likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment 
on Mr C himself. 
Checks also must be proportionate taking into account the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend on  
several factors such as the particular circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, 
current situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Consideration should also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre applying 
for. This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different 
loan applications. 
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mr C had been thorough in the checks 
they made. And whether theyve taken all of these factors into account in deciding to lend to 
Mr C.
I understand, Mr C made an on-line loan application, where he gave details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Following which Everyday asked him to call into one of their 
branches to complete the application  process. Mr C was asked to bring with him proof of his 
salary, and bank statements. And I can see Everyday carried out a credit check. 
Everyday said Mr Cs credit checks didnt show he was having any difficulty in repaying his 
existing financial commitments and there wasnt anything to show Mr C was in a debt 
management plan.
Everyday said the income and expenditure information provided suggested Mr C had a 
monthly disposable income of over £1600. Which would imply that the loan was easily 
affordable. But I think, the amount of disposable income available should have raised a 
question as to why Mr C needed to borrow £3000 that attracted such a high rate of interest if 
he had this amount of disposable income available to him.
Mr C applied for the loan as he said he wanted to refinance and clear existing loans, in 
particular payday loans. But having looked at his bank statements, three months prior to the 
loan being taken out, and his credit file. I can see Mr C had a regular ongoing history of 
taking our payday loans. He also had five active credit cards all of which were close to or 
above their limit. And he had an overdraft facility of £4,450, which he was continually using 
and sometimes going above. At one point, after getting a wage in excess of £6000 and a 
further £1,000 from his mother, within a couple of days Mr C was again towards the top end 
of his overdraft facility. 
I think from the information Ive seen its clear Mr C was struggling to manage his finances  
hence his need for further funds. He may have been making his monthly repayments, but I 
think its clear he was only able to do this by using other credit facilities and/or from borrowing from family. And, in these circumstances, I think that it would have been fair, 
reasonable and proportionate for Everyday to have recognised this and to factor it in to any 
product offered, when lending to him. I dont think Everyday did do this. I dont think 
Everyday focussed on Mr C as a borrower and his specific circumstances, they instead only 
sought to take advantage of Mr Cs financial situation by providing a loan that incurred a high 
interest rate   181%.  Mr C was already having difficulty in managing his finances and I 
think it was clear that Mr C was borrowing on top of other borrowing and using this credit to 
pay his financial commitments. So, I think Everyday were irresponsible in lending to him as 
this moved him further into a spiral of debt.
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt 
straightforward as Mr C has had the loan in question and hes used the funds. in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So I ask Everyday Lending Limited 
to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Cs account from when it was
opened;
treat any payments that Mr C has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if this
results in Mr C having paid more than what he was initially lent, then any extra should
be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr C plus 8% simple interest on this
amount from date of payment to date of settlement;
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Cs account after all adjustments have been
made, then Everyday Lending needs to come to a suitable repayment plan with Mr C
to pay off the remaining amount; and
remove any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lender H to take off tax from this interest. Lender H 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman