DRN-3532595
The complaint
Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined the claims 
made under their travel insurance policies.
What happened
Mrs W purchased a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 22 October 2019. 
This was to provide cover for her to go on holiday abroad, departing on 2 April 2020, and 
returning to the UK on 13 April 2020. The holiday Mrs W was planning on taking was with 
her son, Mr W, Mr Ws wife Mrs G, and their children.
Mr W and Mrs G also purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, with Great Lakes, but 
on 31 October 2019. This was to cover them for the same holiday, and the same dates, 
given they were planning on travelling with Mrs W.
Both parties later purchased travel disruption cover for their respective policies. 
However, Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G have explained that on 13 March 2020, Mr W was 
informed by his medical team that he should not travel on the above planned holiday. This 
was because some years previously Mr W had an organ transplant  and the medical team 
said this put him at higher risk of poorer outcomes, should he contract Coronavirus.
Because of this information, on 16 March 2020, Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G cancelled their 
holiday. They were both able to get a refund from the airline provider due to take them 
abroad. But they werent able to get a refund on their accommodation, or internal flights. This 
meant Mrs W had lost £3,061. And Mr W and Mrs G had lost £9,413.
Because of the above losses Mrs W made a claim under her travel insurance policy. And 
Mr W and Mrs G made a claim under theirs.
Great Lakes considered both claims and declined them. They said that Mrs W, Mr W and 
Mrs G had cancelled their holiday because of a disinclination to travel  given Mr Ws 
medical situation. And this wasnt covered by the insurance policies. 
In addition, Great Lakes said the additional travel disruption cover both parties had 
purchased only provided cover for cancellation due to Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) advice against all or all but essential travel, in relation to 
coronavirus. And, the parties here had cancelled their holiday before this advice came into 
being. So, there wasnt any cover under this additional cover option either.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G were unhappy with this. And so, raised a complaint about the 
matter. Great Lakes maintained its position on both claims. Because Mrs W, Mr W and 
Mrs G remained dissatisfied, they referred the matter to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it should be upheld, and that Mrs W, 
Mr W and Mrs Gs claims should be settled, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of their policies. 
Our investigator accepted that strictly following the terms and conditions of both policies 
(which were the same terms), there wasnt cover under the cancellation, or travel disruption 
section of the policies for the situation being claimed for. But our investigator said that the 
policies didnt provide cover for travelling against medical advice. And because Mr W had 
been given medical advice not to travel, then there would have been no cover if Mrs W, 
Mr W and Mrs G had travelled. As well as no cover if they hadnt. 
Our investigator didnt consider that fair  as either way, Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G were 
paying for cover they couldnt have used. And given the situation  Mr W having had an 
organ transplant and being in a high-risk group to travel, our investigator thought a strict 
application of the policy terms wasnt fair. They thought this was the case for Mrs W too  as 
otherwise she would have been travelling alone, on what was a specific, family holiday.
Great Lakes didnt agree. It reiterated there was no cover for a disinclination to travel. And it 
said the parties had cancelled their holiday too early  in light of the FCDO advice that came 
out shortly after. Great Lakes also said the parties should be able to receive a refund from 
their travel agent. And that the policies excluded government prohibitive regulations.
Because Great Lakes didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether Great Lakes, in declining these claims, acted in line with these 
requirements. And I dont think it did. I dont think it acted fairly when it made the decision to 
decline both claims.
Cover under the policies
Ive reviewed Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs Gs policies  which are under the same policy terms. 
From doing so, I can see that the insurance does cover cancellation of a holiday. But only in 
certain situations. The situations covered within the policy include being called for jury 
service, being made redundant and being unable to travel due to unforeseen injury, illness or 
death of the policyholder, close relative or travelling companion.
The travel disruption part of the policies that both parties purchased, provided cover for the 
need to cancel a trip, because of Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) 
advice against all, or all but essential travel.
Ive thought about the reason why Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G cancelled their holiday, and 
whether it fell into any of the reasons noted as covered under their policies. And I dont think 
it did. Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G cancelled their holiday on 16 March 2020, as noted on the 
invoices from the firm that arranged their trip. This was before any FCDO advice against all, 
or all but essential travel. So, that wasnt the reason the holiday was cancelled. Rather, it 
was cancelled because of medical advice given to Mr W about travelling.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G have said Mr W was told on 13 March 2020, that he shouldnt travel 
abroad, as the recipient of an organ transplant. And they have provided a letter from Mr Ws medical team, explaining that that he was in a category of people at severe risk of 
developing severe disease, with higher chances of there being a poorer outcome, should he 
catch coronavirus. The letter explained that from the beginning of the pandemic in March 
2020, the medical team had advised against travel abroad. Given Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs Gs 
explanation, and the letter to Mr W, Im satisfied the main reason the holiday was cancelled 
was due to the medical advice provided to Mr W.
As above, I acknowledge this isnt an incident covered under the policies here. Further to 
this, I can see that the policies actively exclude travelling against medical advice. This was 
made clear to Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G in their policy documentation. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) explained the following: 
What is not insured
()
Travelling against medical advice or with the intention of obtaining medical treatment 
abroad.
And this was also discussed in the main policy booklet. Given this, on a strict interpretation 
of the terms here, Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G arent covered for their losses. There was no 
insured event to cover the situation they found themselves in. And they werent covered 
when travelling against medical advice.
Fair and reasonable
But it is also within my remit to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms in line with this  where I 
consider that a strict interpretation leads to an unfair result. I do think following the strict 
policy terms leads to an unfair result in both Mrs W and Mr W and Mrs Gs cases. 
In terms of Mr W and Mrs G - if Mr W and his family had taken their trip as planned, they 
would have been travelling against specific advice from the NHS. And so, as per the policy 
terms, their policy would have been invalidated and they wouldnt have been entitled to any 
cover at all, under any section of the policy. So, it wasnt an option in Mr W and Mrs Gs 
case, to continue with the holiday after the NHS advice.
If Mr and Mrs G hadnt cancelled their holiday, and had travelled abroad instead, their policy 
would have no value to them at all  seeing as it wouldnt have afforded them any cover. 
Based on Great Lakes position on this case, the policy also was of no value to them for 
cancelling the trip, due to medical advice against travel. So, either way, the policy provided 
no benefit to them. I dont think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  
Mr W and Mrs G were left with no option but to cancel their trip, with no cover. 
Great Lakes has said the holiday wasnt cancelled due to an exacerbation of Mr Ws 
condition. But medical professionals thought these conditions put Mr W at high risk of illness 
if he travelled. And I note that Mr W and Mrs G declared these conditions to Great Lakes, 
which had agreed to cover them. Its likely they paid an additional medical premium as a 
result of this. 
I think its fair to conclude that Mr W and Mrs Gs claim did, in effect, arise from conditions 
Great Lake had agreed to accept, albeit indirectly. So, overall, in these circumstances, I think 
the fair and reasonable outcome is for Great Lakes to deal with Mr W and Mrs Gs 
cancellation claim, under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. In terms of Mrs W - Mrs W cancelled her holiday, because her travelling companions, Mr W 
and his family, were unable to travel  because of the above-mentioned medical advice. The 
terms and conditions of her policy are the same to that of Mr W and Mrs Gs. So, there was 
cancellation cover due to the illness or injury of a travelling companion, but no cover for 
potential future illness, brought about by the risk of travelling. But I think applying the terms 
strictly here also leads to an unfair result. 
Mrs Ws holiday was cancelled because her travelling companions health meant the 
planned family holiday was no longer possible. It wasnt cancelled because she no longer 
wanted to travel. It seems to me that cancellation due to a travelling companions health 
concerns  in this very specific circumstance  is within the spirit of the term covering 
cancellation for a travelling companions illness or injury. And Mrs W was going on a family 
holiday, accompanied by her son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren, that could no longer 
happen. So, I think it would be fair for Great Lakes to accept Mrs Gs claim on that basis, 
given the specific circumstances of this case.
Great Lakes have said Mrs W, and her family, cancelled the holiday too early. They say this 
because if they had cancelled their holiday a little later than they did, there would have been 
cover under the travel disruption section of the policies. This is because on 17 March 2020, 
the FCDO advised against all, or all but essential travel  including to Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs 
Gs intended destination. 
Having looked at the travel disruption section of the policies, I can see that this would have 
covered Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G for no longer being able to travel due to FCDO advice. And 
whilst they may have cancelled their holiday one day earlier than this advice  for the above-
mentioned reasons, it seems to me this didnt prejudice Great Lakes position on any claims. 
They would have received covered cancellation claims anyway, and none of the losses 
could have been mitigated. With this in mind, in these instance, I think its fair and 
reasonable to accept and settlement Mrs Ws claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy  as well as Mr W, Mrs Gs (and their children). 
Great Lakes has raised an additional point  that Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs Gs main policies 
dont cover them where there are prohibitive regulations by the government of any country. 
Our investigator has highlighted there were no prohibitive regulations at the time the holidays 
were cancelled. And in any event, Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G also paid for travel disruption 
cover, which if prohibitive regulations had been in place by the FCDO, would have covered 
the situation. So, I dont this this point alters the outcome of this case. 
Lastly, Great Lakes has said Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G should have been able to recover 
costs from the travel agent they booked their trip through. Our investigator noted that the 
terms and conditions of the trip booked meant that the trip costs werent refundable. And, the 
travel agent wasnt ABTA protected, meaning Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G didnt have this 
avenue to pursue a return of their money. Looking at the type of trip booked, the protection 
afforded to the trip, and the terms of the holiday, Im satisfied Mrs W, Mr W and Mrs G 
werent able to recover their claimed for costs elsewhere. So, Im satisfied this also doesnt 
change the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is for Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle Mrs Ws claim, 
under her policy, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.
I also require Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle Mr W and Mrs Gs claim, under their policy, 
in line with the remaining terms and condition of their policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G, Mr W and 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman