DRN-3542825
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with direct debits on his 
account that he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr C says he contacted Barclays about unauthorised new direct debits on his account. He 
says it didnt notify him about them being set up as he wanted. It also didnt deal with his 
complaint and it prevented him setting up legitimate direct debits on his account.
Barclays accepted that it had provided poor service. It had paid Mr C £25 in December 2020. 
But had increased the offer while his complaint was with this service and most recently said 
it would pay a further £150. It said that because of the way these direct debits had been 
originated it wouldnt be able to notify Mr C about them. It had for a period blocked all new 
regular payment mandates from his account. But it hadnt communicated well with Mr C. It 
maintained its position that if he wanted a new account number an application with a credit 
check would be needed.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays do more than it had now offered to. Barclays 
had prevented direct debits to two specific organisations being set up, but that block had 
been removed by Mr C on 19 January 2021. It had also restricted all new payment mandates 
meaning Mr C would need to contact it to set them up. But this had been removed on 8 April 
2021. If Mr C wanted a new account then a credit check would be part of that process.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that this had happened a number of times and meant that he was 
checking his account using the app every day. He maintained that he ought to have been 
notified. And this had been going on for 18 months and the compensation was inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im looking here at what happened to the point when Mr C referred his complaint to this 
service and Barclays responded. If he has had ongoing problems since then that would be 
part of a new complaint hed need to raise with Barclays first.
Mr C reported a direct debit to Barclays on 30 November 2020 and also called again on 1 
December 2020. He raised a complaint on 17 December 2020 when a further new direct 
debit had been attempted. Direct debits to specific businesses were then blocked. And he 
was then paid that day what I can see from his statement were actually two compensation 
payments of £25.  He still wanted to know why hed not been told about the direct debits 
when they were established. He contacted Barclays about this again in January 2021. It told 
him it would be placing a referral on all new such payments and would come back to him.
Barclays accepts that it didnt tell him what it thought was the resolution to his complaint. 
And it then heard from Mr C in March 2021 about his attempts to set up legitimate payments. 
The block was removed, and he was able to set up at least one direct debit by the end of 
April 2021. Barclays has now explained that it wont be possible for notifications of fraudulent 
direct debits set up as they were before to be notified to him. And that he would need to go 
through an application process for a new account number.
I dont doubt Mr Cs concern at unauthorised direct debits from his account. And that even 
though he had contacted Barclays about this, it happened again. His questions werent 
answered. Barclays had marked this as resolved, but this left a restriction on new regular 
payments he did want to set up from his account.
Barclays has now offered to pay him a further £150 to reflect what happened. As I say Im 
looking at what happened through to the end of April 2021. And if as it seems Mr Cs details 
were compromised then the options seemed to be a block or opening another account. I 
need to take into account that an unknown third party had been trying to access funds and 
that this person is responsible for an element of his distress. If as weve been told there is no 
way of getting notifications from Barclays systems when this happens then I cant make any 
direction to address that. And Barclays has rightly confirmed that Mr C wouldnt be 
responsible for payments taken in this way that he hadnt authorised.
I need to decide whether the amount of compensation is reasonable. We dont make punitive 
awards. And I take into account our published guidance. Having done so I consider that a 
further £250 (an increase of £100 on the £150 now offered) for Mr C would be reasonable to 
reflect all the elements of what happened. As the key issue is now about this compensation I 
consider I am fairly able to make this change without any further submissions and so issue a 
final decision about it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr C a 
further £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman