DRN-1438698
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
The policy was taken out in 1988 in connection with a mortgage that started in 1989. The 
policy provided cover for Mr M if he couldn't work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M didn't agree with the adjudicator's 
conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
-           Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs M say Halifax gave them the impression they had to buy the PPI to get the 
mortgage they wanted, and that they weren't given a proper choice about buying it. Ive 
noted everything Mr and Mrs M have said.The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs 
M and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs M's mortgage application form included a section about PPI 
which said:
If you wish to join the Scheme enter the amount of monthly benefit you require.' 
Mr and Mrs M's form was completed to show the amount of cover they wanted. They then 
had to complete a separate application form to apply for the PPI. From what I've seen, there 
is nothing to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage. 
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs M have told me, I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
Mr and Mrs M say they had some savings they could've used to cover the mortgage 
repayments if Mr M was off work sick. But it seems the PPI would've covered the 
mortgage for longer than the amount of savings Mr and Mrs M say they had. And 
having the policy in place would've meant Mr and Mrs M could use their savings to 
pay for other expenses. So I think the policy would've provided a useful benefit to 
them if something went wrong. 
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely he and Mrs M needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs M before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
M would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman