DRN-2739346
The complaint
Mrs W brings a complaint on behalf of herself and her husband, the late Mr W. She 
complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-informed them about the terms of their life 
assurance policy.
Mrs W is being represented. All references to Mrs W will include submissions made on her 
behalf.
What happened
In 1981 Mrs and Mr W took out a joint whole of life assurance policy (the policy) which had 
an initial sum assured of £6,240 (with profits) and a yearly premium of £250. The policy was 
designed to pay a lump sum on the second death. But in September 2016 Phoenix Life 
wrote to Mrs and Mr W telling them the policy was on a first death basis. Sadly, Mr W died in 
October 2019. When Mrs W tried to make a claim, she was told the policy would only be 
paid once both parties died.
Mrs W complained. She said that Mr W had thought he was leaving her in a good financial 
position as a direct result of being mis-led by Phoenix Life. She acknowledged the policy 
was set up a second death basis but said she and her husband had placed reliance on the 
letter they received from Phoenix Life in September 2016.
Phoenix Life upheld the complaint. It said due to a keying error it incorrectly recorded the 
policy on its systems as a joint life first death plan and this is what caused the mistake. But it 
said the policy documents clearly show the policy is only due to be paid following the second 
death. Phoenix Life offered Mrs W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
mistake. Unhappy with this response, Mrs W didnt accept the compensation and referred 
her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the compensation offered by Phoenix Life was fair. Mrs W 
disagreed so the matter was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2021. I said I was intending to increase the 
award offered by Phoenix Life from £500 to £750. In brief, this was because I thought the 
mistake came at a particularly difficult time for Mrs W and the increase in compensation 
reflected the distress and inconvenience caused by the error.
In response, Phoenix Life said it had nothing further to add. Mrs W said she was 
disappointed with the outcome but said she accepted that Id looked at the situation 
holistically. She also raised some questions about the cash-in value of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, Id once again like to offer my condolences to Mrs W and her 
family for their loss.
As noted above, Mrs W accepted that I reached my decision holistically and had some 
questions about the value of the policy. Whilst I understand Mrs Ws concerns about this, 
these questions will need to be answered by Phoenix Life. My role is to resolve the dispute 
between her and Phoenix Life. As neither party had anything substantive to add, my findings 
as set out in my provisional decision, remain the same. The extract from my provisional 
decision which now forms a part of my final decision is as follows:
Having considered everything whilst I think Phoenix Life need to pay compensation for its 
error, I dont consider it needs to meet the claim on a first death basis. Ill explain why. 
Often in this type of situation, there are indications that something is erroneous with 
information received by a business. And the customer might or ought to have known this 
wasnt their entitlement. In this case, it would seem that Mrs and Mr W knew that up to the 
point of receiving the letter from Phoenix Life in September 2016 (the letter), the policy was 
on a second death basis. On receipt of the letter they thought the policy had changed and 
that this was due to the takeover of the business the policy was originally with.
Mrs W also says that Mr W in particular, was happy with what seemed to be a change to 
their policy as this met with their needs at that time (2016). When the policy was set up in 
1981, Mrs and Mr Ws children were 17 and 19 years old and still in full-time education. The 
purpose of the policy was to provide their children with some protection until they became 
independent. But Mrs W says that as her children were no longer dependent on her and her 
husband, Mr Ws main concern was to provide for her in the event of his death. Mrs W adds 
that the letter came at a time when Mr W had significant health problems and was also 
elderly, so she says he wasnt in a position to question what hed be told. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Mrs and Mr W didnt take steps to contact Phoenix Life after the 
letter in 2016 because they honestly believed a change had happened. And that as a result 
they didnt need to do anything further. So I cant fairly hold them responsible for not chasing
this up with Phoenix Life before Mr Ws death.
However, its a general principle of law that where a mistake is made this does not give rise 
to an entitlement to profit from that error. So even though I can understand why Mrs and 
Mr W didnt question the letter sent in 2016, the true position was that policy was, and 
always has been, one that paid out on second death  this is what they both agreed to 
purchase in 1981. On this basis, I cant reasonably direct Phoenix Life to honour the policy 
on a first death basis as this wasnt the policy Mrs and Mr W purchased or have paid for. 
That said, I still need to consider whether theyve suffered any financial loss as a result of 
the error. 
In terms of financial loss, Mrs W says Mr W wanted to provide protection for her in the event 
of his death and that the letter had denied him the opportunity to source alternative cover. 
However, at the time they received the letter Mr W was elderly and extremely ill. This is what 
Mrs W has said about the situation. So on balance, I think its unlikely he would have been 
able to find suitable alternative cover.
Further, I consider that its unlikely Mrs and Mr W would have chosen to cash-in or cancel 
the policy. This is of course difficult to say for certain, but up until that point they hadnt tried 
to surrender the policy that had been in place since 1981. And as Ive said, up until 2016 it 
seemed they knew, or ought to have known, the policy was payable on a second death 
basis. By 2016 their children had been financially independent for a considerable period of 
time and both Mrs and Mr W were in their late 70s/ early 80s. Up until that point, it doesnt appear that Mrs and Mr W had done anything to amend or surrender the policy  and they 
hadnt tried to set up alternative cover on a first death basis. So Im not persuaded they 
would have done anything differently but for the mistake made by Phoenix Life.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think I can draw a conclusion that the error significantly 
altered Mrs and Mr Ws financial position. I think the main impact of the error was a 
significant loss of expectation and thats what Ill consider now.
The discovery of the mistake came at a particularly difficult time for Mrs W  she is elderly 
herself and her husband of many years had just died. It wasnt until his death, which 
happened more than three years after the error was made, that Phoenix Life corrected its 
mistake. And this was only prompted by the claim submitted by Mrs W. As Ive said, this 
correction came at a particularly difficult time for Mrs W and was clearly distressing for her to 
deal with.
For all these reasons, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and will award her £750 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Phoenix Lifes mistake.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and I order Phoenix Life Limited to pay Mrs W £750 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman