DRN-3146681
The complaint
Mr D complains about the customer service received from I Go 4 Ltd. in connection with a
car insurance policy.
Mr D was represented in this claim by a family member who was also a named driver on the
policy, but for ease, in this decision Ill refer to their actions/comments as those of Mr D.
What happened
Mr D took out a car insurance policy with company A. This was administered by I Go 4 Ltd,
trading as Hastings Direct Smart Miles. For ease, in this decision I will refer to I Go 4 Ltd as
Smart Miles.
In February 2020 Mr D contacted Smart Miles and company A as he believed hed damaged
the insured car when hed driven through a flooded area.
As a result of this conversation, company A opened a claim. But soon after Mr D rang to
discuss things further and decided to withdraw the claim.
Shortly after this, Mr D cancelled the policy as he was seeking to insure a new car hed
purchased to replace the damaged one. Mr D decided to take out a different policy with
another provider, company G. But not very long after the new policy started, he was told the
it had been cancelled by company G because hed failed to declare the above claim.
Mr D was unhappy and contacted company A and Smart Miles to try to resolve the issue.
When he wasnt able to do so he complained. Mr D complained, not only about the incident
being recorded, but also about the customer service hed received in connection with this.
The complaints about how the incident was recorded were dealt with by company A.
Smart Miles responded to Mr D about the customer service hed received from them and
didnt uphold his complaint. It had reviewed seven telephone calls Mr D had made between
February and March and it didnt find any aspects of poor customer service. It said it thought. 
it was likely the calls Mr D was unhappy with either took place with company G or with
another connected company, company H.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he brought his concerns to our service.
I issued a provisional decision so that both parties could have the opportunity to comment 
before a final decision was issued. In brief, I said that I thought there was some confusion 
over who it was Mr D was speaking to. Id listened to the calls Mr D had had with 
Smart Miles and didnt have any concerns.
Smart Miles had nothing to add following my provisional decision. 
Mr D said he wasnt happy with my provisional decision. Mr D felt what had happened had 
caused him a lot of problems and this was the reason hed had to pay more for his 
insurance. Mr D raised a number of specific points, but these were about the actions of 
company A and not Smart Miles.
Im now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I will only consider the actions and decisions that Smart Miles was ultimately
responsible for. I appreciate Mr D didnt realise he was speaking to different businesses in
connection with his claim  but he was. And its important to separate out what each
business did so that I can fairly decide if they have acted reasonably.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint against Smart Miles. Hopefully my
findings will help him understand why this is the case.
I can confirm that Ive listened to all seven calls Smart Miles has located in connection with
the claim. Ive also considered the list of calls and names of representatives Mr D provided,
including those he was unhappy with. Having cross referenced these, I think that Smart
Miles is correct in saying that only one of the names Mr D listed matched one of the Smart
Miles representatives Mr D spoke with. The details of this representative are included in its
final response, so I dont intend to repeat them here. But Id note this wasnt someone Mr D
was unhappy with.
Having listened to these calls I think it was fair for Smart Miles not to uphold Mr Ds
complaint about customer service  I heard nothing which caused me to think Mr D was
provided with poor service. The call handlers were polite and tried to assist but were clear
with Mr D that they couldnt provide details on the claim as they werent responsible for this.
They explained that this was something he would need to speak to company A about.
The call handlers then passed Mr D through to company A where appropriate.
I think its likely that Smart Miles is correct in saying that as well as speaking with the insurer,
company A, Mr D may have also called a different company, company H. Company H is
connected with Smart Miles, but its a different business. As outlined above, in this decision I
can only consider what Smart Miles has done. And for the reasons Ive given, I dont think it
has acted unfairly here and Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman