DRN-2423596
The complaint
Mrs W complains Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) unfairly assessed her claim. 
What happened
Through her employer, Mrs W is the beneficiary of a personal accident policy underwritten 
by Chubb. 
In 2010, Mrs W suffered an accident and later made a claim for permanent total 
disablement. Chubb declined the claim as it said the circumstances didnt meet the policy 
terms. 
Mrs W later asked Chubb to review her claim again, and provided a recent medical report. 
After review, Chubb said it accepted Mrs W had suffered a permanent loss of function in one 
of her arms, but due to her having an existing vascular condition prior to the accident, it 
wasnt possible to know if the accident brought forward her symptoms, or by how much. It 
made a settlement offer based on a 10% loss of function in one of Mrs Ws arms. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to this service. An investigator here considered what had 
happened but didnt uphold the complaint. They said although the medical report said it was 
likely Mrs Ws accident brought forward her vascular condition, it didnt specify by how much. 
And said Chubb had agreed to arrange an Independent Medical Exam (IME), to assess this. 
An IME was carried out in June 2020 with a medical professional I will refer to as Dr H. Dr H 
specialises in vascular surgery at a senior level.
Dr Hs report said hed reviewed Mrs Ws medical records, and noted the vascular condition 
relating to her arm had been identified in 2007, with symptoms two years prior to this. He 
also noted the circumstances of Mrs Ws accident in 2010, and the symptoms shed 
experienced with her hand and arm since then, as well as medical investigations and 
treatment which had been undertaken.
Dr Hs report concluded:
the vascular condition was pre-existing and symptomatic prior to the injury in 2010;
trauma could have worsened the existing condition; 
it was probable that the existing condition would have eventually required treatment had 
Mrs W had not had the accident;
the accident brought forward the probable (50% chance) need for treatment by up to five 
years;
the complications with Mrs Ws treatment had altered her daily life; and
Mrs Ws condition was unlikely to improve.
And in a further letter after being asked to clarify his conclusion, Dr H said: 
I would estimate that the claimants symptoms were worsened by 50% due to the 
accident. This worsening was sufficient in my opinion to bring forward the likely 
treatment by up to five years.
Chubb re-assessed the claim following the IME report. It said it accepted the accident had 
reduced Mrs Ws working life by five years. And it increased its settlement offer from 10% to 
25% of the maximum policy benefit in respect of loss of one, or both limbs under the cover 
for personal total disablement. 
Mrs W complained to Chubb about the settlement amount offered. Chubb explained how it 
had calculated the settlement and said it thought it had done this correctly based on the 
conclusion of the IME. 
Unhappy with Chubbs response, Mrs W brought her complaint to this service again. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think the settlement 
had been calculated unfairly. 
Mrs W disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. In summary she said:
earlier medical reports had not been considered by the investigator;
she interpreted Dr Hs report to mean her condition was brought forward by 50%;
Dr H could not predict when she would have needed treatment;
Dr H did not state an age at which he predicted she would retire; and 
she doesnt think her condition would have worsened if not for the accident. 
Chubb accepted the investigators view. It said it had no record of previously receiving a 
copy of the occupational health report conducted in January 2020. Having been provided 
with this, Chubb said it wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome of the claim. But as 
this hadnt been part of the complaint Mrs W made, it didnt consent for our service to 
consider this point, without it first having an opportunity to respond in a separate complaint. 
Chubb also said it thought its reference to Mrs Ws potential retirement age caused 
confusion. But it said it thought this was the most appropriate way to assess the 
circumstances based on Dr Hs findings. And it said this resulted in a more generous 
outcome than if it had calculated the percentage based on whole of life expectancy.
Mrs W subsequently provided a letter from her consultant dated March 2021, in relation to 
neurological symptoms, and asked for this to be considered. Chubb was passed a copy of 
the letter for its comments. It said a further claim had been made in relation to migraines, 
and that this claim had been assessed separately and the outcome provided to Mrs W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to set out that the focus of my review has been on the events surrounding 
Chubbs re-assessment of the claim, following the IME report. And the evidence available at 
the time it issued its final response on the complaint. Im aware Mrs W has previously 
brought complaints about the same claim to this service, and I wont be revisiting those here, 
or commenting on any of the medical reports where our service has already given its answer 
on those matters. Im unable to consider the further medical evidence Mrs W has provided dated January 2020 
and March 2021, as this did not form part of the original complaint made. And I understand 
some of this evidence relates to a different claim, which Chubb has assessed separately. 
Mrs W can make a new complaint directly to Chubb about those matters, if she wishes. 
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Chubb has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
And Ive reviewed the terms of the policy, which state the following.
If during the Period of Insurance and Effective Time an Accident occurs that causes 
Bodily Injury to an Insured Person which results in:
a) Death
b) Permanent Total Disablement
c) Permanent Disabling Injury
d) Temporary Total Disablement
[Chubb] will pay the Insured Person the amounts shown in the Schedule.
Loss of Limb
means in respect of:
a) an arm - physical severance of the four fingers at or above the metacarpal 
phalangeal joints (where the fingers join the palm of hand) or the permanent total 
loss of use of an entire hand or arm;
The policy provides cover of up to a maximum of £50,000 in respect of loss of one, or both 
limbs under the personal total disablement section. 
Having reviewed all of the relevant evidence, Im satisfied Chubb has calculated settlement 
of Mrs Ws claim fairly. And Ill explain why. 
The medical evidence shows Mrs W already had a vascular condition called arteriovenous 
malformation, affecting one of her arms, prior to her accident. And in the IME report, Dr H 
stated he thought there was a 50% chance that Mrs W would have needed the treatment for 
her vascular condition, even if she hadnt had the accident. So it was likely she would have 
eventually gone on to need the same treatment which, due to complications, resulted in her 
being unable to work. 
The report also commented on how the accident contributed to Mrs W needing this 
treatment sooner than she otherwise would have done. Dr H stated he thought the accident 
had accelerated the need for this treatment by five years. So Im persuaded it was correct for 
Chubb to assess the claim based on Mrs Ws working life having been reduced by five 
years, as a result of her accident. 
Ive considered the points Mrs W has raised about Dr Hs assessment of her need for 
treatment, had she not had the accident. Dr H is a senior vascular specialist and he had 
reviewed Mrs Ws medical history and provided a detailed report of his findings. So Im 
persuaded that it was reasonable for Chubb to rely on his expertise in this area. Chubb made a calculation based on adding five years to the number of working years Mrs W 
had completed before she stopped working. This totalled a working life of 20 years, so a 
reduction of five years, equivalent to 25%. And thats the percentage of benefit Chubb 
offered to pay. I think that was a fair and reasonable way to assess the benefit payable in 
these circumstances. So I wont be directing Chubb to pay anything more than its already 
offered.
 
My final decision
Chubb European Group SE has already made an offer to pay the claim at 25% of the 
£50,000 benefit available under the policy, which is £12,500. And Im aware it has already 
paid Mrs W £5,000.
 
So my decision is that Chubb European Group SE should pay the remaining £7,500 of the 
settlement amount to Mrs W, if it hasnt done so already. And it should do so within 28 days 
of us confirming Mrs W has accepted my decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman