DRN-3188237
The complaint
Miss W complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) took out debit interest four 
days earlier on her current account than they had since the account opened. She was also 
unhappy with the difficulties she had in speaking to NatWest to resolve the issues.
What happened
My understanding is on 14 January 2021 debt interest of £18.40 was taken by NatWest from 
Miss Ws current account. She wasnt expecting this and thought the debit interest only 
came out on the 18th of each month, rather than being variable. 
I can see she raised this on webchat, and was told the debit interest is taken 21 days from 
the end of the charging period  and was shown the last four times the debit interest was 
taken, which included it coming out on 19 October 2020. So, not always on the 18th as shed 
said it did.
Miss W said she attempted to raise a complaint about this through the webchat function on 
NatWests banking app, but despite spending many hours trying to do so, was unsuccessful. 
She says as a consequence of her efforts to get this sorted, she lost around 20 work hours, 
and was reprimanded for this by her work. She asked for £100-£150 compensation for this.
NatWest replied to Miss Ws complaint. They said they could see a statement was issued on 
24 December 2020 letting her know the debit interest would be taken on 14 January 2021. 
They said the account terms and conditions explain theyll take the debit interest 21 days 
after the end of the charging period  and theyll give 14 days notice of taking the fees. They 
said the date the fees will debit arent fixed, and the charging period for December 2020 
ended early due to Christmas. 
In a second response a few days later, NatWest said there was a delay in registering the 
complaint, but by this time shed already been given the explanation about why the interest 
debited. They said they could see Miss W said shed tried to connect to their webchat on 50 
occasions, but couldnt see those attempts, and said its possible her internet wasnt 
working. NatWest noted Miss Ws request for compensation, and asked for a breakdown of 
her request, along with a copy of any out of pocket expenses shed incurred. Overall, they 
didnt uphold either complaint.
Unhappy with these responses, Miss W asked us to look into things. One of our 
Investigators did so but found NatWest hadnt acted unfairly in applying the debit interest 
and were being reasonable in saying theyd refund out of pocket expenses  but couldnt see 
Miss W had replied to that offer by NatWest.
Miss W replied simply to say she rejected the outcome, and then to say she wanted an 
Ombudsmans decision, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Debit interest
The terms and conditions of Miss Ws account say:
10.7 When will overdraft interest and overdraft fees be taken from your account?
Any overdraft fee or overdraft interest will be taken from your account 21 days after the end 
of the charging period it was incurred in (or the next business day if this is a non-business 
day). Well give you at least 14 days notice of how much were going to charge you and 
when.
So, at face value, Im satisfied the debit interest wouldnt automatically come out on the 18th 
of every month as Miss W has suggested.
Ive been provided with some internal information from NatWests systems to show the debit 
interest didnt always come out from Miss Ws account on the 18th of the month. This is the 
same information Miss W was given on the webchat. Ive also seen NatWests internal 
system showing the email containing the statement was sent to Miss Ws email address  
the same one she gave our service.
So, I think she was made aware of the interest being charged on her statement, and that 
was properly sent to her. As a result of that, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in 
charging the interest on 14 January 2021, so wont be asking them to do anything further on 
this point.
Customer service
Miss W has said she spent a significant amount of time trying to get to the bottom of what 
happened. 
Ive seen the webchat information  and it shows that at 8.21am Miss W first asked why the 
charges had been debited from her account earlier than she expected. The first reply was 
9.06am from NatWests webchat explaining it was the interest charge for the previous 
charging period. Miss W replied at 9.38am saying she wanted an immediate explanation 
because the charges only come out on 18th of every month. At 10.25am, NatWest explained 
the charges dont always come out on 18th of every month, they vary depending on the 
charging period. They quoted the last four months, which showed the charges had been 
applied on 19 October, 18 November and 18 December. 
Miss W replied at 10.37am saying she wanted this to be passed to the complaints team 
immediately. I can see from the webchat information the expectation was theyd be in touch 
on the webchat in around two hours  but didnt actually reply until 5.19pm. I think its 
unfortunate there was a delay. But, at this time, Miss W had been told when the interest 
would be taken out, and why, which as Ive found above was correct.
I understand Miss W is frustrated with the service shes had, but Ive found shes been given 
clear information about what happened and why. Ive noted Miss Ws request for 
compensation, but I do also think its not unreasonable for NatWest to have asked for an 
explanation of why she wanted compensation. Our Investigator also asked as they couldnt 
see Miss W had replied to NatWest on this point. In response she explained shed been 
frustrated by the delays on the webchat, and by the delays when speaking to NatWest on 
the phone later on  saying shed done this during work time which resulted in her being 
reprimanded. Our Investigator asked Miss W for evidence of this, but she said this had all 
happened in meetings nothing had been put in writing.Im genuinely sorry to hear of the difficulties this situation caused Miss W. But NatWest did 
give Miss W the right information about the reason for the charges in around two hours from 
her first raising it. And I cant say theyre responsible for Miss W choosing to try and resolve 
the issue during her own work time. So, overall, I wont be awarding her any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman