DRN-1209078
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked their accounts. It gave them 
mistaken and misleading information about what was happening, which caused more 
problems. Then it told them this was all a mistake.
What happened
On 17 April Barclays blocked the joint account held by Mr and Mrs K. We now know this was 
a mistake, but Mr and Mrs K didnt know that at the time. 
Mr and Mrs K found out their cards werent working on 18 April, when they tried to make 
purchases. They contacted Barclays, and it told them about the block. It gave no more 
information then, other than the accounts would be blocked for ten working days, and to go 
into branch to get money or pay bills. Mr and Mrs K rang back, and checked that incoming 
payments and direct debits would still be processed. 
On 20 April Mr and Mrs K went into branch to take money out. They said staff there were 
helpful, but unable to give them any more information. They also rang Barclays a number of 
times, but werent given any information. 
On 26 April Barclays removed the blocks, but it didnt tell Mr and Mrs K that. They found out 
on 29 April, when they phoned Barclays again. At this point, Mr and Mrs K were told the 
block had been put on their account because someone else had tried to put money in. They 
were also told that they could now access online banking. But in fact they werent able to, 
and were told on another call that they had to go to an ATM to unlock their security. 
Because Mr and Mrs K hadnt been told that these blocks were applied in error, they became 
concerned that a fraudster mustve been able to clear phone banking security. They rang the 
investigations team to see if this might be the case. The investigations team agreed. Mr and 
Mrs K then ordered new cards, pins and telephone banking access details. 
Mrs Ks new cards arrived. Mr Ks didnt, and he had to ask Barclays again to issue these. 
Mrs K should also have received a new passcode for phone banking along with her cards, 
but that wasnt sent. Mrs K realised this in mid-May, when she wasnt able to access phone 
banking. She contacted Barclays yet again, and a passcode was reissued. 
In early June, Mr and Mrs K discovered that the block on their accounts was a mistake. It 
should never have been put on. Barclays has paid £300 to say sorry for this. Mr and Mrs K 
dont think thats enough. They say that if someone vulnerable or with fragile mental health 
had been treated like this, the consequences could be a lot worse. They said they didnt 
really want money, they wanted Barclays to review its systems. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He explained that our service 
isnt here to punish businesses, and as were not a regulatory body we cant advise businesses to change their processes. He could only look at what had happened in this 
individual case. He thought Barclays had compensated Mr and Mrs K reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. They repeated that they would prefer Barclays to review its 
systems, and not pay any compensation. But if all it could do was pay compensation, they 
thought the amount should be doubled. Because Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with our 
investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays doesnt seem to me to have disputed what Mr and Mrs K say happened. And it has 
accepted that it made mistakes in this case. Its told Mrs K, who brought the complaint to 
Barclays, that its sorry. 
I understand that this must have been an unsettling and unpleasant experience for both Mr 
and Mrs K. And it was made a lot worse by a combination of the lack of communication from 
Barclays and the incorrect information that Barclays gave them. I appreciate their concerns 
about how others might react if this happened to someone else. But all I am able to do is to 
look at what happened in this case. And fortunately neither Mr nor Mrs K is an especially 
vulnerable customer. 
That doesnt mean that this was an acceptable level of service. Im quite clear it was not. But 
I also have to take into account that Barclays has apologised. And its provided feedback 
where Mr and Mrs K feel improvements should be made. Its also paid £300 in 
compensation. Although I know that Mr and Mrs K dont think this is enough, I do think it 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So, although I know Mr and Mrs K 
will be disappointed, I wont ask Barclays to do any more now. And that means I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman