DRN-3516818
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lost her data when her father (Mr M) was 
applying to open a bank account for her and that has made her vulnerable to fraud.
What happened
Mr M was opening a bank account with HSBC for Miss M. As part of the application he was 
required to upload a copy of Miss Ms passport along with a photo of her, so that her identity 
could be verified. Mr M said he was told that hed successfully uploaded the photo and 
passport. But HSBC later said that it hadnt received that information.
Mr M complains on behalf of Miss M that HSBC has lost her biometric information. He said 
that puts her at risk of fraud and the associated costs of putting that right. Mr M wants HSBC 
to find Miss Ms data and to put it somewhere safe, to shut down the system it uses to gather 
date or if neither of those things are possible, provide a lifetime guarantee to cover any 
losses and costs that flowed from the loss of the data.
Our investigator thought that it was most likely the information had been deleted. But he said 
that HSBC should increase its compensation to £150.
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. Mr M did not. He made a number of points, 
including:
His request to HSBC had not been met. It hadnt located the biometric data or provided 
evidence it had been deleted. It is therefore reasonable to conclude the information had 
been lost.
The investigator had taken what hed said out of context. The information from HSBC fell 
short of what he would expect of a formal policy document, which he would expect to be 
approved through a formal process by senior HSBC staff.
HSBC should be able to provide evidence to show when the two images were captured 
and deleted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms position here. He wants the clear evidence to prove that his daughters 
biometric information has been deleted. But Im afraid that we dont have definitive evidence 
of that. It doesnt necessarily follow that the information has been lost. 
In cases where there is a dispute about what happened and the evidence is incomplete, I 
must reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence that is available to us.
Mr M considers that HSBC should be able to produce evidence to either show it had located 
the two images or that they had been deleted. Without that, it was reasonable to consider 
that the information had been lost.
HSBC initially said that due to a system issue it hadnt received the information. It then said 
the information was never received because the upload failed.
HSBC has also provided the following evidence:
A case print showing the steps it took in investigation of this complaint. The notes say 
that there was no trace of the information on the relevant system and that HSBC had 
checked with another department.
A log of the online application stating that HSBC was awaiting identification documents.
An internal email from HSBC dated 20 May 2021, stating that the upload had failed. 
None of the customers information came across to [HSBC].
An email from HSBC where it passed on the following information from the relevant 
department:
The data deletion policy is set that all personal data is deleted after 30 days from the 
transaction date. After that we can only see that the transaction took place, date and 
time it was created and result (accept/reject). Everything else is (by design) deleted. 
Therefore, the only thing we can say with certainty, is that Mr M used [the system] on 5th 
April 2021 at 7:49 and their submission was rejected by the system as blurry. However, 
we cannot say whether it was founded or unfounded rejection as the document is no 
longer there. Reviewing the notes on the application itself, which was submitted on 
5APR at 7:40, it seems that the document was unfortunately never reviewed and the 
application was automatically dropped on 22APR. Subsequently, all [the systems] data 
was purged when the retention period expired.
A transaction report showing all information had been deleted from the relevant system 
in respect of Miss Ms application. The reference number on the report matches the 
reference number on other information provided by HSBC, including the online 
application. 
A transaction report on another application, showing where proof of identification had 
been successfully updated so we could see how the system would show where proof of 
identity had been received.
A screenshot from HSBCs system stating that it has an automatic process where the 
information is deleted. And further evidence that the information on the relevant system 
has been deleted.
HSBC could have been a lot clearer in the explanation it gave for what happened. There is a 
difference between the information not being received and the information being received, 
but rejected by its system. It also appears to accept that it failed to manually review the 
information it did receive when it was rejected.
Nevertheless, the weight of the evidence here supports that any information that HSBC did 
hold for Miss M in respect of the application has now been deleted. While HSBC could have 
been more careful in what it said about what happened, it seems that due to the passage of 
time, information relating to the application has been deleted. Mr M is worried about what could happen. But there is no evidence to show that any 
information has been lost  and the evidence we do have supports that any information held 
has been deleted. In view of that, I cant see how I could reasonably conclude that the 
information has been lost. On the evidence we have, it is more likely that the upload was 
unsuccessful and any information HSBC did receive has now been deleted. 
HSBC agreed with the investigators recommendation to pay £150 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by what happened. I think that is fair to reflect that HSBC appears to 
have failed to check whether the information was uploaded successfully or not when its 
system identified the upload as blurry and that it could have done more to give the 
necessary reassurance to Mr M at the outset  and that by not doing so it has caused 
unnecessary ongoing worry. 
It is for HSBC to decide what systems and processes it has in place. Its not for me to 
interfere in that.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss M £150 .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman