DRN-2332283
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Littlewoods) have 
charged him for an item which he says he returned. 
What happened
On 18 February 2020, Mr H ordered a jacket and used the buy now pay later payment 
option. Mr H informed Littlewoods that he intended to return the item and an advance credit 
was applied to the account. He says he returned the jacket along with another item in the 
same package. He also returned a third item, but this was sent separately. 
Mr H says Littlewoods acknowledged receipt of one of the items in the package and so they 
must also have received the jacket. However, his account was charged for it. He called 
Littlewoods on 25 March 2020 and raised a complaint on 30 March. 
Littlewoods responded in May 2020. They wouldnt issue a credit for the item because they 
said they hadnt received the jacket and Mr H couldnt provide a proof of returns receipt. 
However, they did accept Mr H didnt receive a call back when he expected, and he could 
have been given clearer information during a telephone call. Therefore, they offered him 
£10. Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to investigate.  
In the investigators view, Littlewoods decision to charge the account for the jacket was a 
fair and reasonable one. Following this, the investigator also wrote to the parties and 
explained that in her view £10 reasonably recognised the inconvenience caused to Mr H by 
the telephone call. Littlewoods accepted the investigators view, but Mr H didnt. Therefore, 
the case passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Littlewoods have provided screenshots which show how they processed the returns. Ive 
seen an advance credit was applied to the account for three items which Mr H wanted to 
return in February 2020.
 
Littlewoods have explained that when they receive returns the advance credit is then 
reversed and replaced by a returned item credit. This did happen for the other two items 
which arent disputed. But in respect of the jacket, the advance credit was reversed and then 
charged back to the account. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr H said the returns slip would show what had been 
included in the package. Ive asked Littlewoods for a copy, but they cant provide it given the 
time which has passed. Mr H said he raised his complaint some time ago and the returns 
slip may have been available had they provided it sooner. But I cant say its unreasonable 
that Littlewoods cant provide the returns slip given the time which has now passed.  
Littlewoods have also obtained information from the retailer about the returns process. They 
say sealed returned parcels are delivered to the returns centre where they are opened. The 
items are taken out and inspected. If more than one item is received I understand this will be 
picked up and all items credited to the account.They also say checks on staff are carried out 
and there is CCTV as a further security measure to ensure that no goods are taken.
Mr H has been unable to provide a proof of returns receipt for the parcel. He says he didnt 
keep this once he had received an acknowledgement email on 2 March 2020. He said he 
didnt realise until after they charged his account that Littlewoods had only acknowledged 
receipt of one of the items in the package. He also says the proof of returns receipt wouldnt 
have shown how many items were in the parcel.
I understand Mr Hs comments and have thought about them carefully. I note Mr H had the 
opportunity to retain the proof of returns receipt when Littlewoods only acknowledged one of 
the items in the package. In some cases, it may have helped to locate the package and 
identify what had been returned. I can see from Littlewoods website that information was 
provided about keeping the tracking number. 
Based on what Ive seen, I must decide whether Littlewoods have acted fairly.  
Unfortunately, there is no proof of returns receipt. I do appreciate what Mr H has said about 
returning the item and I know how strongly he feels about this. But there is no other evidence 
to support what he has said. Littlewoods have provided an explanation of their returns 
process and have demonstrated it in respect of the other two items. They have also 
explained the security that is in place at the retailers. For these reasons, I cant say their 
decision not to issue a refund for the jacket was unreasonable or unfair. 
However, I have listened to the call on 25 March 2020. The call handler said Mr H hadnt 
been charged for the jacket when he had. I can appreciate that this information was 
confusing for Mr H. The call handler also said he would call back in an hour, but Mr H didnt 
receive a call back. 
Putting things right 
Littlewoods could have been clearer during the call in March 2020 and didnt call Mr H back 
when they said they would. I appreciate this caused some confusion for Mr H. Littlewoods 
apologised and paid £10 to resolve the complaint. In my view this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. This is because I understand Mr H is mostly disappointed with being 
charged for the jacket and I havent upheld this aspect of the complaint. 
My final decision
To settle the complaint Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Littlewoods) paid 
Mr H £10 to recognise that Mr H didnt receive a call back or clarity of information. This is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case and I wont be asking them to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman