DRN-1684637
The complaint
Mr B through his representative Mr U complains that Coventry Building Society acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in how it has administered Mr Bs offset mortgage and issued literature 
Mr U says is misleading. Mr B wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr B wanted a new mortgage and Mr U was his broker. Mr B took out an offset mortgage 
with Coventry; this is a type of mortgage product where monies held by the consumer (for 
example in a savings account or in the offset account itself) is used to offset the balance of 
the mortgage  this usually reduces the monthly interest due. Mr U said the fact sheet about 
the mortgage product for intermediaries said that the offset reduced the outstanding capital 
balance.
Mr B was unhappy to be told by Coventry that he still had to pay the monthly payment as his 
offset didnt reduce his capital mortgage balance to zero; it simply reduced the interest due. 
Mr U said this position conflicted with the literature given about the product and rendered the 
exercise pointless. Mr U said that the monthly payment should be zero.
Mr U complained to Coventry. It said the wording used to describe the product was 
acceptable and no amendment would be made. Coventry also wrote to Mr B and said the 
mortgage offer made it clear monthly payments would be required, as did the guide to the 
product provided.
Mr U complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said the factsheet had to read as a whole and the line relied upon by Mr U didnt apply 
to Mr B who had chosen a different option (to reduce his monthly payments, not to reduce 
the term). The investigator pointed out that the factsheet made it clear a monthly payment 
was required and Coventry had a website allowing a calculation of how the offset would work 
 there was no situation when a payment wouldnt be required. She noted that the mortgage 
offer also said only the interest would be reduced and it was the brokers role to provide 
advice, not Coventrys. The investigator said that the literature wasnt misleading and 
Coventry wasnt at fault.
Mr U disagreed. He said that the factsheet did say the capital balance would reduce; the 
investigator said the whole document had to be considered and the line didnt apply to 
Mr Bs chosen option. Mr U said that the factsheet should be clearer and not able to be 
misinterpreted. The investigator pointed out that the factsheet was for intermediaries, not the 
public, and repeated her view that everything should be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a variety of offset mortgages offered by lenders. They dont all operate in the same 
way, though some models are more common than others. For example, some require a 
separate savings account, some reduce the mortgage balance itself, while others dont; 
some may be interest only, others are repayment. What is a common feature is that often 
offset mortgages see a reduction of interest paid if operated as planned, either because the 
capital balance is treated as lower (due to the amount in the savings account) so less 
interest is charged, or because the interest due is reduced due to the amount paid in by the 
consumer (this type still requires a monthly payment towards the capital balance).
Due to the variety of offset mortgage product models, its important for those advising 
consumers and consumers themselves to read the literature supplied by the lender as well 
as the mortgage documents. The literature should explain correctly how the offset mortgage 
product works. A brokers role is to explain the product to the consumer and ensure that its 
suitable to meet their needs.
In Mr Bs case, the factsheet for intermediaries says your clients savings are linked to their 
mortgage to offset the interest they pay on their mortgage, helping them to reduce the 
mortgage term or their monthly mortgage payment, whichever suits them best. It goes on to 
say As its a repayment mortgage your clients must still make their monthly capital 
repayment, but theyre only charged interest on the difference between their Offset savings 
balance and the amount of their mortgage. The mortgage interest they save is called the 
Offset benefit. 
Its clear from the factsheet that a monthly payment will still be required, but the consumer 
can choose to either reduce the mortgage term or monthly mortgage payment using the 
offset. The document goes on to say if the consumer chooses to reduce the term they must 
pay the full contractual monthly mortgage payment, Any Offset reduces the outstanding 
capital balance which in turn reduces the interest payable overall. If the consumer chooses 
the alternative option to reduce the monthly payment (as Mr B did), the factsheet says the 
full contractual monthly payment must be paid but the Offset benefit automatically reduces 
the amount collected next month. 
Theres no option to pay nothing on a monthly basis set out within the factsheet  in fact it 
sets out the warning Remember  this is a repayment mortgage and your client will always 
have to make a monthly capital repayment on the whole mortgage balance. Mr Us position 
that the single line Any Offset reduces the outstanding capital balance overlooks the clear 
and repeated requirement that monthly payments must be made, and this sentence only 
applies if the mortgage term is to be reduced. Mr B chose the payment reduction option, not 
the term reduction option so the phrase Any Offset reduces the outstanding capital balance 
didnt apply in any event as it was in the section dealing with term reduction.
The guide to offset mortgage provided to consumers also makes this point. It says An Offset 
savings account is linked to your Offset mortgage to reduce the amount of mortgage interest 
youre charged You still have to make your monthly capital repayment, but we only charge 
you interest on the difference between your Offset savings balance and the mortgage 
amount. The guide goes on to explain that if the payment reduction option is chosen At the 
end of each month, the Offset benefit automatically reduces the amount we collect by Direct 
Debit. I dont agree with Mr Us interpretation of either the factsheet for intermediaries or the 
literature generally  I think it was clear a monthly payment would be required, regardless of 
the amount within the savings account. The guide repeats the information from the factsheet 
and says Youll still need to make a capital repayment every month.
I looked at the mortgage documents themselves as theyre the contractual documents 
between the parties. They reflect the explanation set out above in my view  the offer in the 
special conditions says The effect of the offset (if your Offset Savings Account is in funds) is 
to reduce the amount of interest we charge you and either a) make part of your scheduled 
monthly payment available to reduce your loanor b) make your monthly payment less than it would have been. The offer doesnt say no monthly payment will be required.
Im not persuaded that the literature or mortgage documents Coventry provided were 
misleading or unclear; I think the documents clearly set out how the offset product worked, 
and it was Mr Us role to advise Mr B about the product and its suitability to meet his needs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
30 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman