DRN-3183957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way that Metro Bank PLC treated them when they looked 
for assistance during the Coronavirus pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Metro in 2019 to extend their property. Mr S was an 
agency professional, working with local authorities in the south of England and when the 
pandemic started, they returned to Scotland as Mr Ss contract was coming to an end.
In the following 12 months they stayed home during the pandemic and kept Metro duly 
informed about the change in circumstances. During this period, Metro provided them with a 
six-month payment holiday in accord with the regulators guidelines. After the payment 
holiday finished in December 2020, Metro agreed a temporary switch to interest only for two 
months. Mr and Mrs S say that they had no problem with this even though they had no 
income from Mr Ss business.
In February 2021, Mr and Mrs S discussed extending this further for six months but Metro 
rejected the longer extension and agreed it for a further two months instead. Metro sent out 
two letters. Mr and Mrs S say they now lost confidence with the bank and told the bank by 
letter that this was unacceptable as to require full payment would require Mr S to go back to 
an unsafe workplace and at aged 68 he felt especially vulnerable.  
At that time, Metro advised Mr and Mrs S  to get in touch with an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) to get advice on their  overall finances in the event they were still unable to 
return to work after the second two-month interest-only period, due to end in
March 2021.
Mr and Mrs S approached the IFA and her advice was that they to obtain a
further six-month interest-only arrangement on your mortgage. Mr and Mrs S provided a 
copy of the letter outlining this advice, along with everything else Metro had asked for. But 
Metro was unwilling to go along with it.
Mr and Mrs S say their complaint has four main points:
1.  Metro failed to consider the impact of Covid-19 on clients in a high-risk category
(over 60s) and believe that by its actions Metro encouraged customers to put
themselves in harms way and risk of serious illness or death.
2. Metro sent two separate letters on the same day  one rejecting
the request for a six-month interest only extension, and one approving a two-month
interest only extension. Mr and Mrs S believe this constituted contradictory advice and 
bordered on threatening behaviour.
3.  Mr and Mrs S say that Metro has disregarded government advice during a pandemic
4.Mr and Mrs S say that Metro has ordered them to get independent financial advice 
from a professional IFA, then disregarded this advice.
Metro said that it believed that it handled Mr and Mrs Ss applications for longer interest only 
periods correctly. It says that to provide a longer interest only period than the bank offered 
would have put Mr and Mrs S into a worse financial situation in the long term. It says that the 
interest only payments would cost the customers more over the term of their product as they 
would pay interest on the full amount outstanding rather than the reducing amount. It also 
said that according to its income/expenditure review of Mr and Mrs Ss finances that interest 
only payments were unaffordable. Metro accepted that it may not have been clear in its 
communications that Mr and Mrs S could access free financial advice and offered to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs S the cost of the financial adviser and a £100 goodwill payment. Our 
investigators view was that on balance that Metro acted appropriately and so didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for a 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S brought this complaint to us with their letter of March 2021. At that time Metro 
had agreed a further two-month interest only concession on their capital repayment 
mortgage. Its clear that Mr and Mrs S were facing financial difficulties paying their mortgage 
from the start of the pandemic and that they looked to Metro for assistance. Its also clear 
that Metro provided assistance by way of payment concessions until Mr S was able to 
resume work in March.
Mr and Mrs S complaint in March came when Metro refused them a six-month interest only 
extension. Metro also suggested that Mr and Mrs S obtain financial advice from an IFA and 
then didnt accept the advice offered. Metro sent two letters on the 25 February. One letter 
was a refusal of the request for the six-month extension. That letter makes several points. 
Firstly, Metro says that the mortgage may be affordable with adjustments to Mr and Mrs Ss 
spending but that the interest only arrangement that Mr and Mrs S wanted might put them in 
a worse financial position than they were in. 
Metros view was that the interest only payments would cost the customers more over the 
term of their product as they would pay interest on the full amount outstanding rather than 
the reducing amount. It also suggested that Mr and Mrs S might want to explore their options 
with an IFA.  Metro in the other letter offered a temporary switch to interest only for two 
months to allow Mr and Mrs S time to obtain independent financial advice on your long term 
options.  
Metro assessed Mr and Mrs Ss financial position and I can see from the information it 
provided that it did so in detail, recognising that there was a downside to an interest only 
concession and may not be in Mr and Mrs Ss interests, recognising that from the 
income/expenditure assessment even the interest-only concession was unaffordable, 
offering temporary relief to allow Mr and Mrs S to take advice, suggesting that there might be 
spending adjustments that Mr and Mrs S might make that could allow them to make 
affordable payments and  that Mr and Mrs S take advice on their long term options. Metro 
conveyed its decision to Mr and Mrs S in two letters. I dont consider that its reasonable to 
conclude that because the information is contained in two letters rather than one that this 
bordered on threatening behaviour. The letters, in my view arent contradictory but 
complementary and indicate that Metro was trying to assist Mr and Mrs S in their financial 
difficulties. I wont be requiring Metro to issue an apology for that.Mr and Mrs S then took independent advice and that advice agreed with Mr and Mrs S that 
they should get a six-month interest only concession from Metro. I note that there is no 
income or expenditure figures in that advice to explain how it would be affordable to Mr and 
Mrs S. The advice says  You have confirmed you are able to support the Interest Only 
Payment for 6 months  But there are no actual  figures as to how this was to be done nor is 
there any reference to the downside of the interest only concession that Metro has referred 
to. As Metro had done a detailed income and expenditure assessment and explained its 
concerns about the downside, I believe it acted fairly in not agreeing the further six-month 
interest only concession. 
I dont accept that Metro was in some way forcing Mr S back to work and into harms way. 
Metro provided Mr and Mrs S with relief from their full mortgage payments for almost a year. 
I dont consider its concern about Mr and Mrs Ss ability to continue paying even interest only 
payments and its suggestion they take advice on long term options was putting pressure on 
Mr S to return unsafely to work. I dont consider that was what was intended, and Ive seen 
no evidence that Metro suggested that Mr S go back to work or work in an unsafe 
environment. Banks are encouraged to act positively with customers in financial difficulties 
and Metro appears to have been doing that. My view is that Metro paid due regard to the 
interests of Mr and Mrs S and treated them fairly
Ive considered in detail Mr and Mrs Ss submissions, and I can see that they feel strongly 
that they were let down by Metro. My role is to decide whether Metro acted fairly in how it 
dealt with Mr and Mrs S and I consider that, overall, it did. Metro has accepted that it should 
have emphasised to Mr and Mrs S that there were sources of free financial advice and for 
not doing so it has offered a goodwill payment of £100 and to pay the invoice for the advice 
that Mr and Mrs S did take from the IFA. If Mr and Mrs S wish to accept that offer I will leave 
them to contact Metro Bank directly. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman