DRN-3183110
Complaint
Mrs W and Mr W are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) increased the 
interest rate on their overdraft to 39.9%. They say its unfair to charge this much because its 
double the rate on credit cards when interest rates are so low.
Background
At the end of 2019, First Direct wrote to Mrs W and Mr W and told them that the way it was 
charging for overdrafts was changing. There would no longer be a distinction between 
arranged and unarranged overdrafts and the APR that would now be applied to her overdraft 
was increasing 39.95%. Mrs W and Mr W complained to First Direct saying this rate was 
unfair. 
First Direct didnt uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. Mrs W and Mr W remained 
dissatisfied and referred their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into 
Mrs W and Mr Ws concerns. She didnt think First Direct had done anything wrong or 
treated Mrs W and Mr W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mrs W and Mr W disagreed and so their complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs W and Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So to 
start with First Direct has made a change that it is entitled to make even though Mrs W and 
Mr W dont believe the rate to be commensurate with current interest rates. 
That said, while Im not looking at First Directs charging structure changes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W and Mr W if it implemented these changes 
unfairly. I understand that Mrs W and Mr W are unhappy because theyd previously been 
able to use their facility at a much lower interest rate. 
But while Mrs W and Mr W may have been happier with the lower interest rate its, 
ultimately, up to First Direct how it assesses what interest rate to offer its customers. Thats 
a business decision for it to make. And its not for our service to tell First Direct how to 
assess applications or say it should have offered a lower interest rate in a particular set of 
circumstances. 
I understand Mrs W and Mr Ws strength of feeling on this matter and why they might be 
unhappy at having to pay a much higher interest rate should they wish to continue using 
their facility in the way they have been previously. But First Direct do appear to have offered 
Mrs W and Mr W to opportunity to exit their overdraft by providing a loan to consolidate the 
outstanding balance. 
I appreciate this wasnt an option Mrs W and Mr W wanted to take at that time because they 
wanted to apply for a mortgage. That said, that was Mrs and Mr Ws choice and it doesnt 
change the fact they were offered the opportunity to clear the balance in full, stop using the 
facility and have it removed shortly after the changes came in. Therefore, I cant reasonably 
say that they were locked into accepting the new changes or werent offered alternatives to 
paying interest at the new rate. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that First Direct implemented 
these overdraft changes in a way that treated Mrs W and Mr W unfairly. It is entitled to 
charge an interest of 39.9%, even though Mrs W and Mr W might have preferred their 
previous rate and as the terms and conditions permitted these changes in the first place, it 
follows that Im not upholding Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman