DRN-3853043
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the service Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided 
when he sent three international payments to his bank account in Indonesia.
What happened
Mr E says on 5 August, 1 September and 5 October 2022 he made three international 
payments from his Halifax account to his bank account in Indonesia. All three transactions 
were for £1,800 and Mr C says he requested all three transactions to be sent in GBP. He is 
unhappy as he received less funds than what he expected and says there was a total 
shortfall of £362. Mr E wants the £9.50 transaction charge to be refunded for each 
transaction and reimbursed for the short fall.
Mr E has also said he is unhappy with the service he received when he tried to contact the 
bank to discuss the issues. He says he was passed to several departments and wasnt able 
to discuss the complaint with anyone who could assist him. This was also amplified by the 
fact Mr E was calling from abroad.
Halifax looked into Mr Es complaint but felt no bank error had occurred in relation to the 
transactions as it says it followed Mr Es instructions. However, it accepted the service it had 
provided was poor and in recognition of this offered Mr E £80 for the cost of the calls he 
made and £50 for the inconvenience he experienced.
Mr E remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Es concerns. She agreed that the service Halifax had provided wasnt good but felt 
the offer to put things right was reasonable. However, she didnt uphold the complaint in 
relation to the international transfers. Mr E remained unhappy and stated he hadnt made an 
error, and he should have been notified if Halifax chose to amend his payment instructions. 
So, he asked for the complaint to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why. But firstly, I would like to say that I am sorry to hear about Mr Es health 
conditions. I really do appreciate the impact this issue has had on Mr E. But in reaching my 
decision in this case, I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and consider the 
case impartially and fairly, based on the available evidence.
Firstly, I have considered how the transaction was completed. Mr E made all three payments 
via online banking. Therefore, this request is based upon Mr Es instructions. Halifaxs role 
here is to simply act on the instructions it receives. 
So, I have gone on to review the customer journey for making international payments, 
reviewing each of the screens Mr E would have seen while attempting to make the payment. 
Having done so, I can see that at each stage a customer has to select the currency they 
wish to use for the international transfer, for example, sterling. As such, Mr E would need to 
manually select an option. I can also see that there is a breakdown of each payment prior to 
a customer authorising the payment. As such, this would have provided an opportunity for 
Mr E to check, prior to him authorising it.
I have also reviewed the payment receipts on Halifaxs internal system. Having done so, I 
can see that on 4 August 2022 the receipt says, amount 1,800 GBP, on 1 September 2022, 
it says, amount EUR 2,006.46 and outlines the exchange rate. And again, on 5 October 
2022 it says, amount EUR 1,994.22. So, it appears Mr E received less money than he 
expected on 1 September and 5 October due to his instruction to send the money in Euros. 
All three payments were subjected to £4.11 fee to the beneficiary bank. But as the last two 
payments were requested in euros, Mr E had to pay to have it converted to euros and 
converted again when it reached the beneficiarys account.
I appreciate Mr E has said he would never select or instruct Halifax to send the payment in 
Euros. And while I appreciate Mr Es strength of feeling in regard to this, on balance I am 
persuaded he did instruct Halifax to send the payment in Euros, but he did so due to human 
error. 
I say this because, in order to conclude Halifax acted unfairly here, I would need to see that 
it was Halifax that had selected the currency and processed the payment incorrectly. But the 
evidence suggests in this case that Mr E completed the transaction online, meaning it is him 
who chooses the currency; therefore, it was his instruction, not Halifax. As such, I am 
satisfied, that Halifax acted in line with Mr Es payment instructions.
I have also reviewed the service issues Mr E experienced while seeking assistance to 
resolve the matter. And I agree, the service he received was unsatisfactory. However, I can 
see that Halifax has accepted that Mr E was passed to several departments, encountered 
long waiting times and this was compounded by the fact he was making international calls. 
In recognition of this Halifax has offered Mr E £80 to cover Mr Es call costs and £50 for the 
distress he experienced. Meaning a total of £130 was offered to Mr E. I acknowledge that Mr 
E has said he isnt interest in the offer Halifax has made for the distress he has experienced. 
As such, no payment has been made to Mr E. 
I would like to highlight, that if Halifax hadnt already made Mr E an offer, I would have 
instructed it to do so. With that in mind, I am satisfied the offer Halifax has made was fair and 
reasonable. As such, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Putting things right
So, in line with the offer Halifax made, I require it to pay Mr E £130.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Halifax Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Mr E £130.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman