DRN-4052736
The complaint
Miss S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) should not have accepted her 
application for a credit card or increased the limit on that card as the lending was 
irresponsible.
What happened
Miss S applied for a credit card with Sainsburys in February 2021 which was accepted. 
Sainsburys gave Miss S a credit limit of £2,500. They then wrote to Miss S in July 2022 
saying that they intended to increase the credit limit to £3,300. This was subsequently 
granted the following month.
Miss S complained to Sainsburys in late 2022. She said Sainsburys hadnt carried out the 
necessary affordability checks when she applied for the card, and that they didnt take into 
account her ability to repay the credit. Miss S also said that Sainsburys didnt take 
reasonable steps to check that she could afford the increase to the limit.
Sainsburys didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. They said, in summary, that they carried out a 
credit check when Miss S applied for the card to check how she had historically repaid credit 
and to assess how much debt she had at the time. And the results of that check showed that 
Miss S met the relevant criteria for a successful application. Sainsburys also said that the 
credit limit was correctly increased in line with their business practices, following a review of 
how Miss S had managed her account as well as an assessment of affordability.
Miss S wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and so she referred her complaint to our 
service. In doing so, she explained that her mental health had taken a huge turn for the 
worse when she applied for the card because of COVID lockdowns and isolation. Miss S 
said she was living on her own with no family and was claiming Universal Credit. She also 
pointed out that, when Sainsburys increased the credit limit, she was only making minimum 
payments towards the balance and was at the top of the limit. And that she had three other 
credit card accounts that were close to their respective credit limits.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. He felt that Sainsburys had carried out 
proportionate checks when they assessed Miss Ss original application and that theyd made 
a fair lending decision from those checks. He also felt that, had Sainsburys carried out 
proportionate checks for the limit increase, they likely would have found that Miss S was able 
to afford this increase. 
Miss S didnt agree so complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the rules and guidance for lenders in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (known as CONC) within the regulators handbook, when thinking about 
whether Sainsburys acted fairly and reasonably. 
Prior to granting Miss S with credit, Sainsburys were required to ensure it would be 
affordable and sustainable. There isnt a set list of checks they needed to complete, instead 
Sainsburys needed to ensure the checks they completed were proportionate for each 
lending decision. What is considered proportionate will therefore vary with each lending 
decision. In deciding what is proportionate, Sainsburys needed to take into consideration 
things such as (but not limited to): the amount of credit, the cost of credit, the size of any 
sustainable repayments to ensure the credit could be repaid in a reasonable period of time 
(this is likely to be higher than the minimum contractual payment) and Miss Ss specific 
circumstances.
When Miss S applied for the credit card, she declared she earned an annual income of 
£30,000 and that her housing costs were £400 each month. Sainsburys completed a credit 
check which they saw showed that Miss S had very little other debt at the time, and that she 
had no defaults or County Court Judgements against her name. So, Sainsburys felt there 
was nothing to indicate that Miss S was experiencing any financial difficulties. 
Sainsburys also said that they used statistical data to calculate the cost of Miss Ss essential 
spending and from that calculated that she had around £700 of disposable income after 
taking into account her existing debt with other lenders. 
Ive seen a copy of Sainsburys credit check and while the data shown on that isnt 
particularly clear, I note that Miss S hasnt disputed that she told Sainsburys about her 
income when she applied. Ive also looked at a copy of Miss Ss credit file that she sent to 
us, which at the time showed that she had a credit card with another lender which had a limit 
of £500 with a balance of around half that. It also showed that Miss S hadnt missed any 
payments to that account with a similar picture being shown for her water bill and phone 
contract commitment. 
So, the information and evidence Sainsburys gathered suggested that Miss S was 
managing her existing credit commitments with no recent history of payment difficulties. 
They were also entitled to rely on the information Miss S gave on the application form about 
her circumstances, unless it knew or ought to have known it was untrue. However, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Sainsburys ought to have known this. This is because I think 
Sainsburys completed proportionate affordability checks and I dont think those checks 
revealed any affordability concerns. I therefore think they made a fair lending decision. 
In respect of the credit limit increase, I note that Sainsburys said that Miss S managed her 
account with them well up to that point and that there were no defaults or other adverse 
information with other creditors when they carried out their credit check. Sainsburys also 
pointed out that Miss S didnt tell them that she didnt want the limit increase.
Sainsburys will know that they have the obligation to ensure that a customer can afford to 
take on increased credit sustainably. Its not for a customer to take on that obligation by 
saying whether they want the limit to be increased.  
I also note that at the time of the increase, Miss S had taken on a number of other credit 
commitments. Her credit file shows that she had three more credit cards with balances close 
to their credit limit and a hire purchase agreement with monthly payments of £291. There 
seems to be no indication that Miss S had missed any payments towards these 
commitments though. And Miss S had made large repayments towards her balance on her 
Sainsburys card with, at one point, this being fully repaid. But, bearing in mind the position on Miss Ss credit cards, and her additional commitment to the hire purchase agreement, I 
think that Sainsburys should have carried out a more thorough income and expenditure 
check than they did to ensure that she could afford to take on the increased credit. 
However, while I dont agree that Sainsburys carried out proportionate checks at that point, 
it doesnt automatically follow that they made an unfair lending decision. I need to consider 
what proportionate checks would have shown them. 
I think Sainsburys should have verified Miss Ss income and asked her questions about her 
overall monthly expenditure. Ive looked at Miss Ss bank statements for the three months 
leading up to the limit increase and can see that her monthly salary was just over £2,400.  
And Miss Ss bank statements are likely to reflect what she would have declared in respect 
of her expenditure had Sainsburys asked her about this. Having looked at Miss Ss 
statements, I note that for June 2022 it seems that her expenditure to her existing credit 
commitments, monthly bills and other debts was around £1,300. Ive taken this as the 
highest likely figure as the information shown on the statements for the two months prior 
shows a lower figure. As such, it appeared that Miss S had over £1,000 towards other 
monthly costs like food and other normal, non-essential expenditure. And, although Miss S 
was at the top end of her credit limits on her other cards, she had made significant payments 
towards her Sainsburys card. 
Taking all of this information into account, including Miss Ss likely declared expenditure, Im 
not persuaded that proportionate checks would have shown Sainsburys that Miss S was 
unlikely to be able to afford the limit increase. 
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I wont be upholding Miss Ss complaint about 
Sainsburys lending decisions.
I would like to say though that I was very sorry to see that Miss S has had such a difficult 
time recently. I havent seen any evidence that Sainsburys was aware of this when they 
considered Miss Ss application and credit limit increase or that they should have been 
aware of this. But I remind Sainsburys to respond accordingly to Miss S about her account 
with them if she requires any support or assistance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023. 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman