DRN-4090531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about a second charge secured loan they have with Prestige 
Finance Limited. They are unhappy with the current balance on their account due to the 
outstanding fees arrears balance and believe they have paid more interest than they should 
have. Mr and Mrs H think that they have made overpayments to the loan and would like the 
amount of those payments returned along with the additional interest charged. In addition, 
Mr and Mrs H have said that the total amount payable that Prestige has recently informed 
them of is wrong and higher than they were told it would be at the time of the sale. 
What happened
In January 2005 Mr and Mrs Hs loan was advanced. It was arranged to consolidate existing 
debts and was for £27,000 over a term of 25 years with Lender F. The contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) was set at £262.37. The loan was later owned by Lender G and 
subsequently transferred to Prestige in November 2015. 
In 2009 Mr and Mrs H started having difficulties making the payments that were due and 
arrears built on the account. Lender G started legal action to repossess the property, but 
when the arrears were cleared in 2013 the action was stopped. However, the fees that had 
been applied because of the arrears, and additional interest that had accrued because of the 
higher balance, remained outstanding and attracting interest. Mr and Mrs H appear to have 
paid the CMP following the arrears being paid off. 
Lender G sent Mr and Mrs H annual statements, the front page of which detailed the amount 
borrowed, the amount that was outstanding and the remaining term on the loan. Following 
detailing all the transactions that had occurred in that year, Lender G included a Charge 
Summary. This documented the charges that had been added to the loan balance and the 
additional interest that had been incurred because the account was, or had been, in arrears 
and charges had been added.
When Prestige started sending the annual statements it included the same information about 
the balances and term. It also confirmed how much of the balance was made up of fees. 
Prestige sent Mr and Mrs H a letter on 4 August 2016 explaining that the interest rate 
charged on the loan had decreased. It went on to explain Your contractual monthly 
instalment has not reduced as there is still outstanding interest accrued on arrears in the 
past. You are however still benefitting from the rate decrease as more of your payments will 
now go towards clearing these amounts.
The amount being collected remained the same until the interest rate on the loan altered at 
the beginning of 2018, at which time the amount paid appears to have reduced to the CMP. 
Thereafter the CMP was paid each month and this varied periodically to reflect changes to 
the interest rate. 
On 20 April 2018 Prestige sent Mr and Mrs H a letter in response to a query from them. This 
said You have requested to change your payment amount for future payments from £307.58 
to £360.00.
Please note that in order for you to clear the balance by expiry of the loan, you would 
currently be required to maintain monthly payments of £370.18, please be aware this figure 
may change if payments are not met.
Making payments of £370.18 will ensure that by expiry of the loan on the 25th January 2030 
the loan will be cleared in full leaving you with a zero balance, this will include any 
charges/delinquent interest incurred during the course of the loan.
Please contact our offices to discuss this, should this be an option.
Mr and Mrs H didnt increase their payments at that time.
On 22 October 2019 Prestige wrote to Mr and Mrs H again. The details of the loan were 
confirmed including the total amount owed, and how much of the original amount borrowed 
was still owing  the principal balance. There was around £5,000 difference between the 
two balances. The letter explained that while the CMP would pay off the principal balance of 
the loan, there would be an outstanding balance at the end of the term due to the previous 
arrears, charges and additional interest that had accrued since the loan had been taken out. 
It was confirmed that in order to pay off the loan by the end of the term, Mr and Mrs H 
needed to pay more than the CMP. 
The 2021 annual statement was sent to Mr and Mrs H in November 2021. Prestige altered 
the format of the annual statement to provide them with more detailed information about the 
outstanding balance. It said that a balance for Unpaid Fees and Interest of slightly over 
£6,000 was included in the overall balance. It was also confirmed that payments to this 
balance would not be collected as part of the CMP and, to ensure the total balance was paid 
off by the end of the term, Mr and Mrs H would need to make additional payments. This 
message was repeated in the statements issued thereafter. In addition to this explanation on 
the front page of the statement, Prestige also started documenting the interest charged in 
two parts  that charged on the principal balance and that charged on the unpaid fees and 
interest balance.
Shortly after receiving the 2021 annual statement Mr and Mrs H raised concerns about the 
unpaid fees and interest balance. They said that they didnt agree with the total amount they 
would need to pay on the loan, as they thought it should be a lesser amount.
Following Mr and Mrs H raising their concerns about the loan, Prestige completed a review 
of the loan account and wrote to them on 5 January 2022 setting out its conclusions. It said 
that it had decided that Lender G had unfairly applied some charges and so it had removed 
those charges, totalling £140. In addition, it had reduced the interest rate on the account 
from 13.26% down to a 5.23% lifetime fixed rate and backdated the change to 
November 2020. The reduced interest rate meant that Prestige reduced the balance of the 
loan by just over £2,200 and the CMP for the loan reduced by around £100. 
Prestige went on to explain that despite the change to the interest rate, if Mr and Mrs H only 
paid the CMP, of approximately £215, they would have a balance outstanding at the end of 
the term in 2030. It was confirmed that payments of £287.45 would need to be paid for the 
remainder of the term to completely clear the amount owed. 
The formal response to the complaint was set out in Prestiges letter of 14 January 2022. It 
explained what the fees arrears balance was made up of and how the interest on the account worked. Prestige then went on to explain how the fees arears balance had built-up 
in Mr and Mrs Hs case and why what had happened meant there would be an outstanding 
balance at the end of the term. It went on to set out what it had decided to do in the 
December 2021 review of the account in relation to the interest rate and removal of fees. 
Mr and Mrs H were not satisfied with Prestiges response and they referred their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators initially looked at whether this was a complaint we could consider. 
She explained that we couldnt consider the complaint about the information given when the 
loan started as it had been sold by a business that had not fallen within our jurisdiction in 
2005. Following from that, in relation to the balance of the account and the events that 
contributed to that, we would only be able to consider these issues from December 2015, 
which was the six years before the complaint was raised.
As both parties accepted the investigators conclusions about our jurisdiction, she went on to 
consider the merits of the part of the complaint we could consider. She provided 
Mr and Mrs H with details of the charges that made-up the fees balance on the account. It 
was confirmed that no charges had been added to the loan during the period we could look 
at. In relation to the information that had been provided to Mr and Mrs H at various points, 
she explained the difference between the fees balance in the 2020 statement and the unpaid 
fees and interest balance in 2021. 
The investigator was satisfied from the correspondence sent to Mr and Mrs H that they 
would have been aware throughout the period we can consider that the loan balance was 
higher than it would have been had all payments been made on time. In addition, she 
considered that Mr and Mrs H would have been aware they needed to make higher 
payments to clear the additional balance. The investigator went on to highlight that the 
lender was able to charge interest on the total debt outstanding and she was not persuaded 
that Prestige had treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. This was especially so given the changes it 
made to their loan account effective from November 2020, which ensured that the amount 
Mr and Mrs H were paying at the time they complained would be more than sufficient to 
clear the outstanding debt by the end of the term.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that she had missed the 
point of their complaint, which was the extortionately high and hidden charges that were 
being added to the loan. They also reiterated that an arrears balance had not been included 
in the annual statements until that produced in 2021, although fees were detailed on the 
2020 statement. Mr and Mrs H said that until the final response letter and the investigators 
view had explained the fees, they hadnt received correspondence telling them the fees had 
been charged or what they were for.
In addition, Mr and Mrs H said that when they had offered to increase the monthly payments 
to the loan in 2018 it had not been because they knew about the higher account balance, but 
rather because they wanted to reduce the term of the loan. They again said that they had 
paid more than the loan agreement said they would need to. Mr and Mrs H also said that 
they consider that by charging interest on a daily basis Prestige had treated them unfairly. 
They also highlighted that Prestige had admitted to providing incorrect and misleading 
statements and the fact that it had refunded £140 of historical charges.
Our investigator considered what Mr and Mrs H said, but she wasnt persuaded to change 
her conclusions. In relation to them being aware of the higher loan balance and needing to 
make additional payments to cover this, she highlighted the April 2018 as an example of 
where they had been told and what they needed to do about it.Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman 
for review. They said that there is a flaw in the system which had allowed the companies that 
had owned their loan to act dishonestly prior to 2015. They said their issue was with the 
whole loan from 2009 onwards as no help, empathy or guidance was given to them when 
they needed it. Mr and Mrs H said they consider that when Prestige bought the loan from the 
previous lender, it would have bought the responsibilities for previous events. 
Our investigator reiterated why we couldnt consider the sale of the loan or the events that 
occurred before December 2015. Mr and Mrs H didnt question our jurisdiction again but 
reiterated that the annual statements provided by Prestige between 2016 and 2020 didnt 
provide a breakdown of the fees and additional interest that had accrued. They reiterated 
they thought this was ethically and morally wrong and did not treat customers fairly. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an ombudsman to review 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
We reconsider our jurisdiction at every stage of our process. Having done so I agree with the 
conclusions of our investigator in this regard. Anything to do with the original sale would fall 
outside our remit as the original lender didnt fall within our jurisdiction at the time of the sale 
in 2005. In addition, in relation to the matter of the account balance and how it has been 
made up we can only consider the events that occurred over the six years before the 
complaint was made, so from December 2015.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H believe that they have been treated unfairly by Prestige; particularly in relation 
to the unpaid fees and additional interest balance. Whilst I can understand that they are 
unhappy that the loan balance is higher than it should have been at this point, I cant hold 
Prestige responsible for that fact. I will comment on this issue further later in my decision. 
As our investigator pointed out to Mr and Mrs H no charges were added to the loan during 
the period I am able to consider. As such, there is nothing for me to consider in this respect. 
I note that Mr and Mrs H have referenced hidden charges in their more recent comments, 
but I can assure them that there were no charges added to the account after 2013. Although 
Prestige recently refunded some of the charges, it remains the case that I am not able to 
comment on that issue.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments about the statements between 2016 and 2020. 
At this juncture I would confirm something our investigator mentioned early in her 
investigation of the complaint; this is an unregulated loan. Unlike regulated loans, where the 
regulator or legislation sets out specifically what information should be given to a consumer 
and when, there are no such requirements. The lender is required to keep a consumer 
informed about their loan and it appears that Lender G and Prestige did. Both businesses 
could have provided more information and formatted it differently. However, as they gave 
Mr and Mrs H basic information about what was owed, the charges that had been attached 
at relevant times, and documented the transactions, including the interest charged, I cant 
find that Prestige did anything wrong. 
The higher balance of the loan that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy about is due to the impact of 
the period of arrears they had between 2009 and 2013. It is a general principle that interest 
is payable on any amounts owed. In addition, it is normal and accepted practice for a lender to pass on the reasonable costs of additional administration caused when a borrower doesnt 
make the payments due under a loan or mortgage contract. So when the account was in 
arrears and needed additional management, Lender G added charges. The arrears, and 
charges that had been added, attracted additional interest. This is normal for such accounts.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were aware throughout that more was owed on the loan 
than would have been had all payments been made on time. I say this as the information 
contained in the annual statements issued by Lender G would have made Mr and Mrs H 
aware that charges were being added and additional interest was being charged, including 
after the arrears had been cleared in 2013. While the annual statements from Prestige 
provided less information between 2016 and 2020, it wrote to Mr and Mrs H on several 
occasions reminding them there was a balance on their loan that was not being repaid by 
the CMP and they needed to make additional payments in order to clear the whole debt 
before the end of the term. Having examined all of these documents, I am satisfied that they 
were all sent to Mr and Mrs Hs correct postal address and, therefore, would have been 
received by them.
Mr and Mrs H are correct that they have paid more to the loan than was expected at the time 
it was sold. This will partially be because the interest rate varied at times, but mainly 
because there was a period of around 18 months in 2016 and 2018 when they were paying 
more than the CMP to reduce the unpaid fees and interest balance. As I have explained 
above, this balance accrued as a consequence of the period of arrears and the additional 
sums were due to be paid.
I have considered whether Mr and Mrs H were treated fairly overall. It would appear that 
Mr and Mrs Hs financial difficulties resolved themselves long before the period I am able to 
consider. As I have said above, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were aware that their 
balance was higher than it would otherwise have been had they not had financial difficulties 
and, given the payments they made to clear the arrears, it would appear that they could 
have afforded all of the sums Prestige suggested they pay. I am not persuaded that Prestige 
needed to do anything more than it did. However, when the complaint was raised in 2021, 
Prestige proactively reviewed the loan account and reduced the interest rate for the 
remainder of the term. The new rate would allow Mr and Mrs H to repay the entire loan 
balance within the existing term, for less than the amount of the CMP being paid before the 
review. In the circumstances, this could reasonably be described as treating Mr and Mrs H 
more than fairly. 
Mr and Mrs H have questioned why Prestige reduced the amount of their monthly payment 
when it reduced the interest rate in 2021. In general a lender isnt able to make a borrower 
pay more than their CMP  the borrower has to agree to any such arrangements. That is 
why when Prestige set out what it was going to do in its letter at the beginning of January 
2022, it again explained that the new CMP would not repay the loan by the end of the term 
and told Mr and Mrs H how much they needed to pay each month in order to do so. It was 
their decision as to whether they wanted to do so and if they did, confirm that to Prestige. If 
Mr and Mrs H now wish to review their payments, I would suggest they get in touch with 
Prestige to discuss what they need to do and how much they now need to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 June 2023.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman