DRN-4369376
The complaint
Mr S complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LVs) handling of 
his travel insurance claim.
Any reference to LV includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr S held a single trip travel insurance policy with LV. Whilst on holiday, he was admitted to 
hospital twice. His claim was accepted by LV, but Mr S was unhappy with the length of time 
it took LV to do so. He was also unhappy about various other aspects of the claim, and LVs 
handling of his complaint. 
LV issued two final response letters. It accepted there had been poor communication and 
some errors made. It paid Mr S total compensation of £350. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought 
a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought LV had paid 
reasonable compensation to recognise its poor service. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complains about the length of time it took for LV to confirm cover.  
Its standard practice for a travel insurer to request and consider certain information before 
agreeing to provide cover. Usually, an insurer will want to see a medical report from the 
hospital, as well as GP records (in order to check that the insureds medical history doesnt 
impact the claim at all). 
After LV was notified of the claim on 11 March, I see that it wanted to establish whether Mr S 
had a UK Global Health Insurance Card (UK GHIC). As he didnt have this with him, LV 
obtained his National Insurance number so it could apply for a provisional replacement 
certificate (PRC) on his behalf. This was to allow him to have free healthcare. LV told Mr S 
this on 15 March, so Im satisfied that Mr S was aware that he didnt need to pay for his 
medical expenses in the public hospital he was in (though I understand there were some 
medical expenses of around £300 from the initial clinic he attended). 
LV still needed medical information about Mr Ss condition, so it could look into the best way 
to return Mr S to the UK. It also wanted his GP records so it could confirm the claim was 
covered. 
I see there was an initial delay in LV requesting Mr Ss GP records, though I note the 
consent form sent to it hadnt been signed initially. It asked Mr S to sign this again on 17 
March. Once this was received, LV contacted the GP surgery the next day. Im satisfied that 
LV then chased the information from the GP regularly, as Id expect. I dont hold LV 
responsible for the GPs delay in providing this information. 
LV had the necessary information to make a claims decision on 30 March. Despite this, it 
didnt confirm cover until 5 April. I see that Mr Ss father asked LV on 2 April what would 
happen if the claim was turned down, and LV confirmed the medical costs would be covered 
under the PRC, but there would be no cover for repatriation. Given that it was thought Mr S 
may need to return to the UK in an air ambulance at the time, I think this delay would have 
caused Mr S unnecessary worry about his repatriation. 
For the most part, I see that LV was in regular contact with the hospital about Mr Ss 
condition. However, there was a delay between 6 April and 11 April where LV didnt contact 
the hospital, despite Mr Ss father confirming that Mr S was feeling better and wanted to 
return home. 
On 12 April, Mr Ss father told LV that the hospital had confirmed Mr S was fit to fly that day. 
A medical report was then received, and LV translated this on 14 April. This said that the 
best-case scenario was that Mr S was fit to fly commercially, and the worst case was that he 
would need an air ambulance. As this didnt make Mr Ss repatriation needs clear, LV 
wanted more information from the hospital. 
I think it was appropriate for LV to clarify this with the hospital. But I think LV delayed doing 
so, as it didnt attempt to speak to the hospital for another two days (until 16 April), despite 
Mr S confirming on 15 April that hed been discharged. That meant Mr S was left not 
knowing what was happening with his repatriation. It was confirmed by the hospital on 16 
April that Mr S didnt need an air ambulance and could return home unescorted. 
LV initially offered to arrange Mr Ss return flight to the UK, but he did this himself. LV told 
him the cost would be covered in full. However, after Mr S returned to the UK and submitted 
his claim, LV realised that Mr S hadnt had a pre-arranged return flight booked, and so it told 
Mr S that it wouldnt reimburse him for the cost of his return flight. 
The policy says LV will cover the cost of getting the insured back home if they are unable to 
use their pre-arranged return transport. But Mr S didnt have any pre-arranged return 
transport, so he would have always needed to pay for this himself. So, according to the 
policy terms, I think LV was entitled to say that it wouldnt cover the cost of Mr Ss return 
flight to the UK.
However, LV later overturned that decision, as it had previously told Mr S his return flight 
would be covered. I see that LV was made aware on 15 March that Mr S didnt have a return 
flight booked. Given that LV knew this, it shouldnt have told Mr S that it would cover the cost 
of his flight back to the UK. So I think LVs decision to cover the cost of the flight seems 
reasonable in these circumstances.
LV didnt pay for Mr Ss taxi fare (to the airport) until February 2023. Given that LV had 
accepted in July 2022 that it would cover Mr Ss repatriation to the UK, I think it should have 
made the payment at this time.
I agree with our investigator that LV doesnt need to reimburse Mr S for the cost he incurred 
in having the medical reports translated to English for his UK doctor. This isnt something 
thats covered under the policy terms. Also, LV said it could have provided the translated 
reports to Mr S if he had asked. Mr S is also unhappy with the length of time LV took to respond to his concerns. As our 
investigator has said, we cant consider complaints solely about complaint handling as this 
isnt a regulated activity. But I think Mr Ss concerns relate to a continuation of LVs handling 
of his claim, so Ive considered this.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out complaint time limit rules that a financial 
business should adhere to. By the end of eight weeks after receiving the complaint, the 
business should send the complainant a final response, or if it is not in a position to do so, it 
should inform the complainant of their right to refer the matter to this Service. 
Although LV did take a long time to provide Mr S with its final response, I see 
that it wrote to him within eight weeks of his complaint to inform him that he could bring his 
complaint to this Service, as it was required to do. It was up to Mr S whether he waited for 
LV to issue its final response, as he could have brought his complaint here at that time if 
hed wanted. 
Mr S then wrote back to LV as he was unhappy with its final response. Again, I see it took a 
long time for LV to address his points in more detail, but LV had already issued its final 
response on the matter, so it didnt have to consider his points further. Nonetheless, LV did 
consider his points and issued a further final response. Though Mr S had already been 
informed of his right to bring his complaint to this Service, so I dont find that LV failed to 
comply with the complaint time limit rules.  
Overall, I think LV caused some avoidable delays in its handling of the claim, and these 
impacted Mr S as he was worried about his repatriation. But he knew that his medical 
expenses in the public hospital would be covered regardless of LVs claims decision, so I 
dont think he was caused any worry in that respect. LV has paid £350 total compensation 
for its errors, which in the round, I find to be reasonable.
Mr S has made the point that his family members were also caused distress by LVs 
handling of the claim. However, as his family members arent covered under the policy, I 
havent considered any impact to them as they arent eligible complainants according to our 
rules.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited has paid reasonable compensation for its errors. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman