DRN-3288661
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax). 
What happened
What Ms H says
Ms H has explained that she is disabled with complex symptoms which affect her differently 
in new or unusual environments and are impacted by stress. She is vision and hearing 
impaired, her cognitive function is impaired, and she suffers from chronic pain. Ms H also 
has a young son who has behavioural problems that mean he doesnt keep himself safe. Ms 
H struggles to cope with him outside of the home and as a result avoids going out with him 
to manage the risk. She says Halifax is aware that she is vulnerable and needs additional 
support.
In August 2020 Ms H sold an item on a well-known marketplace and incurred a £250 sellers 
fee. As Ms H was experiencing unexpected financial difficulties she asked if the fee could be 
delayed. She received email confirmation that it could be, and she could pay using a link 
provided on 1 November 2020. In spite of this agreement, the marketplace automatically 
debited the £250 payment via PayPal on 16 October 2020. This meant that Ms Hs benefit 
money was taken, and she and her children had no funds to live on.
Ms H called Halifax and explained what had happened and the difficulty this caused her. The 
Halifax staff member she spoke to said Halifax couldnt intervene with the payment, but she 
was legally entitled to her benefit money so should visit her branch and the manager would 
refund it. Ms H says she explained in detail the difficulty this would cause and asked if 
reasonable adjustments could be made so she didnt have to go in to branch. In addition to 
the difficulties this would cause given her own health and the problems with her son, Ms H 
was self-isolating to protect herself and didnt want to go in to branch during the pandemic. 
The staff member said he was aware of Ms Hs circumstances and provided the telephone 
number of her local branch.
Ms H tried to call her local branch, but her calls werent answered, and she was re-directed 
to the main helpline. After trying to speak to her branch for some time, Ms H spoke to 
someone on the helpline and was again advised to go in to branch. So Ms H did as directed 
but says she was publicly humiliated in branch where the staff knew nothing about the 
process and said she wasnt entitled to any money. Ms H was advised to ask PayPal to send 
a fax of the transaction and Halifax would then allow her access to funds. But when Ms H 
contacted PayPal it said it had no facility to do this. Ms H called the Halifax helpline again 
but was told it had no record of the advice to contact PayPal.
Ms H says she suffered severe anxiety and excruciating pain in branch and a relapse in her 
symptoms for a month after. The hours of calls and conflicting advice she was given also 
caused her to suffer exhaustion and distress and a flare up of severe symptoms. She feels 
that Halifax failed to take into account her disability and that of her son.  
What Halifax said
Halifax accepted Ms H hadnt been advised correctly or been provided with the available 
options and apologised for this. It explained that it was unable to raise a dispute under the 
Visa Chargeback rules as the circumstances didnt fit the criteria and also that it had no 
control over the payment being taken. Halifax said that if it received confirmation from the 
retailer that the funds shouldnt have been earmarked it could allow her to access her funds.
Halifax acknowledged that its actions caused Ms H frustration and inconvenience and 
credited her account with £75 in recognition of this. It said this amount was in line with this 
services guidelines.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Ms Hs complaint recommended that it be upheld. She 
referred to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) definition of vulnerability, the principles set 
out in the FCAs guidance consultation paper on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers, 
and to FCA guidance for firms launched in February 2021, and in particular section 2.24B in 
relation to difficulties accessing services. The investigator concluded that Halifax hadnt 
made reasonable adjustments as requested by Ms H even though it knew of her 
circumstances. And Halifaxs offer to compensate Ms H by paying her £75 suggested that it 
had treated her in line with any other customer rather than taking into account her individual 
circumstances and the impact of its actions on her individually. As a result, the investigator 
asked Halifax to pay Ms H an additional £300 to compensate her.
Halifax agreed to the increased compensation figure, but Ms H did not. She said it wasnt 
enough to compensate for two different staff members asking her to go into branch knowing 
what they did about her personal circumstances. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Halifaxs internal records Im satisfied that Ms H told Halifax of her personal 
circumstances and health conditions in 2019. She also explained that she needed help from 
carers with her children for outings and appointments. So I consider Ms H was in a 
vulnerable position and Halifax should have recognised that and taken steps to help her 
appropriately.
The FCA issued Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers in 
February 2021. In this guidance the FCA said firms should understand the impact of 
vulnerability on the needs of customers and ensure frontline staff have the necessary skills 
to recognise and respond to a range of characteristics of vulnerability. The guidelines go on 
to say,
Difficulty accessing services: some characteristics of vulnerability may make it difficult for 
consumers to use a particular communication channel. For example, a disability may make it 
difficult for a customer to access a branch in person or contact a firm by phone. 
Halifax is also under a legal duty to make reasonable adjustments for customers who have a 
disability. Its not my role to determine if Halifax acted unlawfully or not in Ms Hs case, or if it 
breached its duties. Thats a matter for the courts to decide. My role is to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Halifax hasnt provided all the relevant call recordings or contact notes, but it accepts that it 
gave Ms H conflicting information and advised her to go into branch even though this was 
difficult for her. And although Halifax has told this service that Ms Hs problems could be 
resolved either through PayPal directly or by going in to branch, this wasnt what happened. 
When Ms H went in to branch the issue with the pending payment to PayPal wasnt resolved 
and she was advised to make further contact with PayPal, meaning her trip was in vain. So I dont consider that Halifax took steps to recognise Ms H was vulnerable or adequately 
thought about all of the arears where she might suffer detriment.
I also dont think Halifax recognised Ms Hs vulnerability in response to her complaint. It paid 
her £75 in recognition of the frustration and inconvenience it had caused and said this was in 
line with this services guidelines. But this service looks at the impact of a financial business 
mistake on an individual, and in Ms Hs case this meant that Halifaxs errors had a greater 
impact given her health and personal circumstances.
Overall, I dont consider Halifax treated Ms H fairly or reasonably. It ought to have
identified that she was vulnerable and adapted its approach. In making an award for fair 
compensation, Ive looked at all the circumstances and the impact any mistakes have had on 
Ms H and given careful consideration to Ms Hs individual circumstances. Having done so, I 
consider the investigators award of an additional £300 (making a total of £375) was fair and 
reasonable. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms H suffered anxiety, pain and a flare up of her symptoms which 
lasted for a month after her branch visit. My award recognises the considerable distress and 
inconvenience caused to her as well as the impact on her health and well-being. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Ms H 
£300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman