DRN-1948827
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let him 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
In autumn 2019 Mr M acquired a new car funded by a finance agreement with VFS. He says 
that when he collected the car he wasnt given a proper opportunity to inspect it due to poor 
weather conditions. Later he returned to the dealer to say there were paint defects and it had 
been fitted with old tyres. He said he wished to reject it, but the dealer refused to accept it 
back. He believed the car wasnt new and so he complained to VFS.
VFS rejected his complaint and said the car had been inspected by the dealer prior to sale 
and no faults had been found. The dealer had offered to valet the car and deal with any 
scratches even though it didnt believe the car had been scratched when it was collected.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Initially our investigator having reviewed 
photographs of the tyres thought they werent new and suggested VFS replace them. 
However, VFS supplied further information about what had happened at the sale. The dealer 
has said that the model Mr M chose was fairly rare and they had sourced it elsewhere. The 
model they found came with more expensive alloys and as Mr M didnt want these the dealer 
swapped the tyres from another new car. 
Mr M disputes this and said he had never discussed alloys. He said that he had declined the 
offer of a valet as the car should have been clean when he collected it. He said he hadnt 
been offered treatment for the scratch. Our investigator concluded there were no grounds to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr M disagreed and said the handover hadnt been carried out properly and he didnt have 
the opportunity to inspect the car properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. VFS is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have looked at the photographs of the tyres and I am satisfied that they are new. The tread 
and rubber nubbins indicate that they are new tyres, but the side walls are dusty and dirty. It 
is regrettable that this was the case, but I presume that would have been addressed if Mr M 
had allowed the dealer to valet the car.
I have also seen the delivery history of the car and this also confirms it was new with only 
nine miles on the clock. I appreciate Mr M says he didnt discuss alloy wheels, but the dealer 
hasnt said that he did. It said that he wanted a car with standard wheel and the one they 
sourced came with alloys so they changed them. 
I havent seen any evidence of a scratch, but again the dealer has said that it had no 
knowledge of the car being scratched when Mr M collected it. That said it has agreed to 
repair the scratch. The issues which form the basis of Mr Ms complaint do not amount to the 
car being of unsatisfactory quality. Both can be easily resolved and I consider that would be 
the right answer.
Mr M brought several new complaints to this service after he first contacted us and these are 
the matter of a separate complaint with VFS. As such I have not considered them in this 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman