DRN-2015266
 
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is 
able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr C responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition, commensurate with age and mileage they said you will 
be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess of 
fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that all of the damage, that Audi are 
now making refurbishment charges for, is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear by the BVRLA guidance. The investigator has explained that guidance 
accurately.
Mr C says he wasnt told about the standard in reasonable time so that he could 
carry out the necessary repairs. But I can see the terms made him aware there would 
be charges if the car was returned in an unsatisfactory condition, and I can see that 
VWFS told him about that standard when they wrote to him on 16 January 2020 
before the car was inspected. I think there was adequate opportunity to repair the 
car.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman