DRN-4422960
The complaint
M has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined her claim under her property
owners insurance policy following a leak at the relevant property.
What happened
In October 2020, M reported a leak to her third-party emergency insurers as water had been
leaking from the bathroom at her property. Her tenant had noticed a large pool of water,
along with staining and damp in the garage, after showering in the bathroom directly above.
This had caused damage to a garage ceiling which contained asbestos, as well as to a
beam and flooring. The third-party insurers required M to arrange for removal of asbestos
before they would proceed, so they could access the waste pipe from the shower and repair
it. M thought that her policy covered the work which would be required.
M arranged for asbestos removal to be carried out by her own contractor. The leak repair 
was carried out by the third-party insurers in November 2021. UKI declined Ms claim stating 
that the damage was caused by wear and tear. M complained to UKI, but it maintained its 
stance which was upheld by this service following a previous referral by M. M then obtained 
evidence which she said would show that the relevant damage wasnt caused by wear and 
tear. M complained to UKI as she wanted it to cover asbestos removal and the necessary 
repairs after the leak was fixed. She was also seeking compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused to both herself and her tenant. UKI maintained its stance.
M then referred her complaint to this service. The relevant investigator upheld Ms complaint.
He noted that UKI had provided a report from an expert in their field. However, he was
persuaded by evidence since provided by M which questioned the accuracy of the expert
report. He was of the view that UKI should now either reconsider the claim or appoint an
independent engineer to inspect the affected area to confirm the cause. He also
recommended the addition of interest due to the delay.
UKI disagreed with the investigators view. It felt that there was little point in engaging
another engineer as repairs had been completed a long time ago. It requested that M
provide photographs of the grouting in a specific area around the shower tray, to decide if it
agreed with the investigators view. M supplied photographs however not of the specific
area. The matter has now been referred to me for determination in my role as Ombudsman. 
In October 2023, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was 
minded to partly uphold Ms complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether UKI fairly and reasonably applied the wording
of the relevant insurance policy in declining Ms claim. On a provisional basis, I consider that
it did so. However, I dont consider that it provided a fair and reasonable service in all
respects, and Ill explain why. In reaching this provisional decision, Ive also considered the
submissions of the parties as summarised below.
M said that shed contacted UKI in November 2020 as shed been informed by her third-
party emergency insurers that asbestos would need to be dealt with, to enable them to fix
the problem. They suspected that the leak was coming from the shower trap and required
access to the shower trap via the garage ceiling. As this was an escape of water claim, M
said she was specifically informed by UKI in December 2020 that it would cover the costs of
the asbestos removal so that the repair could be carried out and the ceiling replaced, as it
was also water damaged. Shed therefore sent in quotes to UKI for the asbestos removal. M
was then informed by UKI that it wouldnt cover these costs until further investigations were
carried out as to where the leak was located. M said that following input from its expert, UKI
then concluded that the leak was from sealant around the shower.
M disagreed with the UKIs expert report as she said that the sealant and grouting around
the shower had been replaced prior to this incident. She questioned the independence of the
UKI contractor who carried out the dye tests. She said as he was pouring water down, he
asked M to confirm if there was a leak, and she confirmed there was. She said that her
disabled and vulnerable tenant was unable to use the shower due to the leak and this
caused great inconvenience. M said she hadnt been able to afford to pay for immediate
asbestos removal due to the costs involved, but shed saved enough to have it removed in
October 2021.
The third-party emergency insurers then carried out the leak repair work and confirmed that
the shower trap was causing the leak and they duly replaced this. M produced a copy of this
insurers letter dated April 2023 which stated that its contractor had attended the property in
November 21 and confirmed the leak was coming from the shower trap, this was replaced
on the same day. Given the type of shower tray within the unit, the contractor had accessed
this from the ceiling in garage, so that there had been no need to move the shower tray or
touch the grouting. M stated that since the repair, the tenant had been using the shower,
with no leak into the garage. She said that this proved that the grout and the sealant werent
to blame for the leak. M conceded that the sealant was now looking mouldy in some parts,
but that it wasnt at the relevant time.
M said that the episode had caused her stress and anxiety and had also caused great
inconvenience to the tenant, as the alternative shower wasnt usable with a wheelchair. She
was looking to receive a refund for what shed paid for the asbestos removal. She also
wanted UKI to replace the ceiling in the garage and cover the costs of replacing the flooring
which had to be thrown away. Furthermore, she said that a wooden beam had been
damaged, and appeared to have rotted due to the leak near shower trap. She said that this
either need to be replaced or treated to prevent further rot or damage.
I now turn to UKIs submissions regarding this matter. UKI accepted that M had the benefit of
accidental damage cover on her policy, however it pointed out that there was an exclusion in
the policy which referenced gradual deterioration and wear and tear. It noted that Ms further
evidence regarding the cause of damage consisted of a letter from the third-party emergency
insurers. It said that the findings in this letter were in contrast with the report of UKIs leak
detection experts which stated: Dye testing was firstly carried out to waste pipe only from
shower and no dye was found dripping from garage ceiling. This also confirmed that whilst it
was difficult to precisely direct the shower flow, it was aimed at sealant and grout and after 
some time water began to drip from garage ceiling. Testing was repeated with same result.
The expert reports conclusion was that sealant and grouting to the shower had failed as
water only leaked through the garage ceiling when water was sprayed over the sealant and
grouting, not down the waste pipe. The report included photographs of the missing grouting.
UKI therefore remained of the view that the failed grouting had perished over time and that it
needed to be replaced to prevent any future issues. It noted that the work of the third-party
emergency insurers was carried out in November 2021, however it didnt know when or
whether the perished grouting had been replaced. It also felt that its expert report was more
detailed than that of the third-party insurers which didnt advise that any tests were carried
out to determine the cause of damage. It said that it didnt provide new information orevidence to support the cause of damage being the shower trap.
UKI stated that it approved the quote for asbestos removal on a without prejudice basis, as it
first needed confirmation that the shower trap was the cause of the leak. It conceded that the
leak detection agent only carried out a visual inspection of the garage ceiling, along with
moisture readings and dye-testing. However, it was clear that the sealant and grouting to the
shower above garage had failed and that water didnt leak through the garage ceiling when
water was put directly down the waste pipe. It therefore considered that it was fair and
reasonable to decline the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy.
UKI considered that the repair invoice, many months after the leak detection testing was not
in itself evidence of the cause of the leak and damage. It noted the previous view of this
service that the letter wasnt sufficiently detailed to make it more persuasive than UKIs
report. It added The letter provided by [the third-party insurer] simply alludes to the repair,
already reviewed as part of the FOS complaint and response. It considered that the
comments didnt represent new information or evidence as to the cause.
Ive also reviewed UKIs case notes in this matter. I note that in December 2020, UKI was
awaiting receipt of the leak repair invoice to confirm that the cause was the waste pipe
beneath the shower as expected given the volume of water involved and given the
description given by the third-party contractors. M was therefore concerned that the claim
was initially accepted, and then declined at the last minute.
I now provide my reasons for my provisional decision to partially uphold Ms complaint. I note
that there are two conflicting expert reports in this case. One states that the shower sealant
or grouting was the cause of the leak and the other states that it was the shower trap. I
agree with the investigator that the UKI leak detection experts report was a comprehensive
report which included photographic evidence, and which was compiled following a dye-
testing exercise. The report is very clear that the leak appeared when the water flow was
directed at the sealant and grouting, but not when it was directed down the waste pipe. I find
it to be a persuasive report.
Its not clear whether the third-party insurers contractors had access to this report when they
carried out the shower trap repair. Their letter dated 18 months after the work merely asserts
the cause of the leak, without further analysis. It doesnt describe or provide photographic
evidence of damage to the shower trap and pipes or any dye testing that may have been
carried out. It makes it clear that the work was carried out from the ceiling below, in order to
avoid damage to the shower tray and grouting.
M has made it clear that new sealant and grouting had been applied before the incident.
However, it isnt known how long before the incident this work was carried out. I consider
one photograph produced by UKIs leak detection agent, in the 2020 report to be significant.
That photograph shows that at the relevant time, the sealant and grouting in one corner of
the shower were in poor condition. This therefore supports the expert opinion that the
sealant and grouting was the cause, or at least the main cause of the problem. Ive seen no
clear recent photographic or other evidence to show that the relevant area of the shower
remains the same as it did in the 2020 photograph.
On the balance of probabilities therefore, despite the fact that both M and UKI appeared to
agree initially that the likely cause of damage was a faulty shower trap, I provisionally
conclude that, on the balance of probabilities, the actual cause of the leak was gradual
deterioration of the sealant and grouting which wasnt covered by the UKI policy. I therefore
cant say that UKI acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in declining the claim.
Nevertheless, I must also consider whether M has been treated fairly and reasonably by UKIin a more general sense. Having reviewed the relevant case notes from December 2020, I
consider that UKIs actions would have led M to believe, or raised expectations, that UKI
would cover the cost of asbestos removal in any event. It appeared to accept at this stage
that the shower trap was likely to be the cause of the leak. However, the investigation and
report of UKIs leak detection agent then showed that the initial expectations of both parties
were incorrect.
I appreciate that the whole episode will have caused anxiety for M. However, my provisional
conclusion is that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect UKI to reimburse costs in relation to
damage caused by gradual deterioration or wear and tear. This is because such damage is
specifically excluded under the terms of the policy. I do consider on the balance of
probabilities however that UKI should compensate M in the sum of £500 for the distress and
inconvenience caused in the early weeks of her claim, as it raised Ms expectations that
cover was in place.
In my provisional decision, I asked both UKI and M if they had any further comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties disagreed with the provisional decision and made the following submissions. 
M was disappointed with the provisional outcome. She re-iterated that it took almost a year 
to save up to have the asbestos removed and then almost a further 9 months to get a report 
from the third-party insurers contractors. The contractors had then taken a long time to deal 
with the matter as theyd changed systems. Im satisfied that all of these delays were outside 
Ms control and will no doubt have added to her frustration. Unfortunately for M however, this 
delay increases the likelihood that UKIs specialist report, compiled soon after the leak event, 
was the most persuasive report as to the cause. 
In relation to sending the further requested photographic evidence to support Ms complaint, 
M said that shed been unable to do this, as the bathroom was being adapted for wheelchair 
access, and this is noted. In the circumstances however, I must rely on the available 
photographic evidence. I remain satisfied that this photographic evidence supports the view 
that the leak was due to deteriorating sealant or grouting. M has helpfully supplied the 
invoice for when the sealant and grout were replaced in August 2019, just over a year 
before the leak. Despite the relatively recent sealing works however, the photographic 
evidence following the leak event clearly shows a defect in the sealant or grouting. 
I appreciate that M stated that the property is maintained regularly through her third-party 
emergency cover. However, this doesnt change the position with regard to the clear 
evidence of defective sealant, and the evidence in the leak specialist report, despite the 
third-party contractors being adamant that it was the shower trap and not the sealant or the 
grouting which was the cause.
I appreciate that M has reiterated that there have been no issues since the shower trap was 
replaced. She states that if the problem had been the sealant or the grout then there would 
have still been a leak, and this would have been reported. However, as further refurbishment 
work has occurred in the bathroom, its no longer possible to retrospectively test the position.
Finally, M said that the report carried out by UKI wasnt independent and the man that 
carried out the leak report for them was working on his own. As such, hed asked M to check 
if there was a leak in the garage whilst he was pouring water down. M said there was a leak and shed said that this was coming from the centre of the garage and not down the sides. 
Theres however no evidence to suggest that the relevant specialist hadnt provided his own 
professional opinion after conducting these tests. I consider it likely that hed asked M to 
inform him whether there was a leak when he directed water down the plug, and then 
separately when he directed water onto the sealant. This would have informed him of the 
likely source of the problem. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that my provisional 
conclusion stands in relation to the substantive issue and that deteriorating sealant or 
grouting was likely to have been the cause of the leak.
I turn now to UKIs further comments and evidence. It disagreed that it should pay £500 
compensation for distress and inconvenience cased to M. It didnt consider that it had led M 
to believe that it would cover asbestos removal in any event. It provided site notes dated 
December 2020 to support its position. It also provided a copy of an e-mail sent to M in 
January 2021 by its agents, and said it advised that cover for trace & access costs (removal 
of the asbestos ceiling) does not extend to damage caused by wear & tear. It said that whilst 
it had sympathy with Ms situation, it didnt believe that it had advised or led her to believe 
that the asbestos removal would be covered regardless of the cause of damage. 
Having carefully considered the e-mail sent to M in January 2021 by its agents I note that it 
stated, I appreciate the confusion however the trace and access does not extend to damage 
caused by anything. Ive assumed that anything here means everything. In other words, 
UKI was stating that the insurance policy wouldnt cover all eventualities. The letter also 
made it clear that until it was established what caused the damage, it cannot yet confirm 
whether insurers will pay for this cost, the cost being that of asbestos removal. 
Im therefore now satisfied that by early January 2021, UKI had made it very clear that it 
wouldnt cover asbestos removal in any event. I remain of the view that up to this point, M 
had been led to believe by her third-party insurers that the leak was due to a waste pipe 
leak. However, the January 2021 letter from UKIs agents acknowledges that there had been 
confusion, and I remain of the view that up to this point, UKI had also led M to believe that 
she was likely to be covered for asbestos removal and other consequential damage under 
her home insurance policy. I remain of the view that this would have caused avoidable 
distress and confusion.
I reach this conclusion also on the basis of the site notes of UKIs agents dated December 
2020. At this point, it was clear that the agents had expected the leak to have been due to a 
waste pipe leak and for liability to have engaged. I consider that this view will have been 
shared with M. The notes recorded we have agreed the ceiling should be removed by the 
licensed asbestos removal company on a without prejudice basis pending receipt of this leak 
repair invoice. Whilst the January 2021 letter does refer to prior confusion, and the likelihood 
is that this was caused by UKIs position on ceiling removal. I dont consider it unreasonable 
that this without prejudice position could have led M to believe that UKI was agreeing for 
work to proceed and that it would pay for ceiling removal in any event.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the without prejudice agreement and lack of 
clarity surrounding it would have created an expectation that UKI would be covering at least 
part of her claim. Whilst I appreciate that the agreement was no doubt made by UKI to 
enable M to progress to resolution of the practical issues, the confusion caused would have 
led to unnecessary distress and inconvenience. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the 
provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Ms complaint and I require UK Insurance 
Limited to pay compensation to her in the sum of £500 for the distress and inconvenience initially caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman