DRN-1074319
The complaint
In summary, Mr P is unhappy that Close Brothers Limited charged him a late payment fee 
for missed payments in respect of his insurance premium finance agreement. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr P took out a credit agreement with Close Brothers to finance his insurance 
premiums. 
In July and August 2019, Close Brothers tried to take payment from Mr Ps bank account by 
way of direct debit. These were returned unpaid. This resulted in late payment charges being 
applied to mr Ps account.
Mr P didnt agree with the charges being applied. After Close Brothers told him that it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong, he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps concerns. He explained why he didnt think Close 
Brothers had done anything wrong. 
Mr P didnt agree with his assessment, so the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr P was late in paying a payment under his credit 
agreement. And Im satisfied that in having to write to Mr P, that there would have been 
additional administration costs incurred by Close Brothers. So, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for Close Brothers to make a charge in those circumstances, as long as they 
had told Mr P in advance that they would do so. 
Im satisfied that they did. I say this because the welcome letter sent to Mr P after he took 
out the insurance premium finance, set out relevant information about his contract. This 
included a payment schedule setting out the monthly payments and information about fees. 
And it went on to state that in the event of Mr P missing any minimum monthly payment, a 
£30 fee would be charged. So, Im satisfied that Close Brothers made Mr P aware of the 
charge.
Close brothers have explained to Mr P what the various overheads involved were, when it 
calculated its fee. And I think its likely that the administration costs it referred to were 
incurred. And as result, it doesnt seem to me in Mr Ps case that the late payment charge it 
made was excessive or disproportionate to the work involved. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman