DRN-4115924
The complaint
Miss H complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and the service shes received after making 
a claim on her home insurance policy, following storm damage caused to her home.
Miss H has been represented by her daughter during the claim and complaint process. For 
ease of reference, any comments made, or actions taken, by her daughter will be referred to 
as Miss H throughout the decision.
What happened
Miss H held a home insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. Unfortunately, in February 
2022, her home was damaged due to a storm in her area. So, she contacted Aviva to make 
a claim.
Aviva accepted Miss Hs claim. But there were delays in agreeing a schedule of works. Miss 
H complained about this, and these issues have already been addressed by our service as 
part of a separate complaint. 
But after this schedule of work was agreed, Miss H became unhappy with the contractors 
appointed to complete this work. And the additional damage she felt these contractors 
caused to her conservatory and her surrounding garden. I will refer to this contractor as W.  
So, she raised another complaint about this.
Aviva responded to Miss Hs complaint and upheld it. They accepted her claim had been 
handled poorly, after their response to her first complaint. And they accepted W had caused 
additional damage to Miss Hs Conservatory, and the surrounding area. So, they agreed for 
Miss H to obtain her own quotes to repair the conservatory, her house roof, and her garden 
for them to consider. And they paid Miss H £350 to recognise any distress and 
inconvenience she was caused because of the above. Miss H remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought that, if Miss H 
instructed her own contractor to repair the conservatory and this wasnt possible, as W 
created additional damage, Aviva should agree to indemnify a full roof replacement. They 
also thought Aviva were responsible for repairs to Miss Hs garden, and that they should 
consider any quote or invoice Miss H obtains for the works required, alongside any new 
quote for repairs to her house roof. Finally, to recognise the additional delays caused to the 
claim journey due to the issue with W, they thought Aviva should pay an additional 
compensatory amount of £250, taking the total compensation paid for these issues to £600 
overall.
Miss H raised several points and questions, which our investigator attempted to address. 
They recognised the ongoing impact this situation had on Miss H. But they reaffirmed that 
Miss H would need to provide new quotes for the roofer, conservatory and garden for Aviva 
to assess. And, that any complaint about the amount Aviva actually paid following the works, 
or as part of a cash settlement, would be a separate issue that couldnt be considered as 
part of this complaint.
Aviva also responded to the outcome with an objection. They accepted most of our 
investigators outcome and directions, including an increase in the compensatory payment. 
But they didnt think it was fair to say they should indemnify a full replacement of Miss Hs 
conservatory roof if required, as they felt the conservatory was already in poor condition, 
referring to terms and conditions surrounding gradual deterioration. So, they thought they 
should only be required to replace the three panels damaged by Ws actions.
Our investigators outcome remained unchanged and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss H. Ive considered all the 
comments put forward by Miss H at length, even if I dont refer to them directly. And I think 
its clear to see the situation has had a significant impact of Miss Hs physical and mental 
wellbeing, which has been made worse by the health conditions Miss H suffers with. So, this 
is something Ive carefully considered when reaching my decision.
But I think it is crucial for me to explain exactly what Ive been able to consider as part of this 
complaint. This complain focuses solely on the events that occurred between Avivas first 
complaint response in November 2022, and their second final response in January 2023. 
This because the delays Miss H experienced before November 2022 have been addressed 
by our service in a separate complaint altogether. And our service only has jurisdiction to 
consider the events that have already been complained about to Aviva. I cant see that there 
has been another final response after January 2023 and so, any events after this time would 
need to be considered by Aviva first, before our service.
So, to be clear, Ive focused on Miss Hs complaint regarding the actions of W, and how their 
failures caused additional damage to her conservatory and the surrounding areas of the 
garden. As W were acting on behalf of Aviva, Aviva are ultimately responsible for this. Ive 
also considered Miss Hs point regarding her house roof, as W were also originally intended 
to complete these repairs before a cash settlement was offered.
And I note Aviva have accepted Ws actions caused additional damage to her conservatory, 
and her surrounding garden. So, Im satisfied this isnt in dispute and that because of this, 
Aviva have accepted theyve acted unfairly, as they are responsible for the service W 
provides. So, I dont intend to discuss the merits of this in any further detail. Instead, Ive 
focused on what does remain in dispute, which focuses on what Aviva should do to put 
things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what Aviva should do to put things right, any award or direction I make 
is intended to place Miss H back in the position she wouldve been in, had Aviva acted fairly 
in the first place.
In this situation, regarding the repairs to Miss Hs roof of her home, its noted that W were initially instructed to complete this work. And they didnt. So, I note Aviva have paid Miss H a 
cash settlement based on what it wouldve cost them to repair the roof themselves, less the 
policy excess. I would expect the excess to be deducted, so I cant say this is unfair. But I 
note Miss H doesnt think the remaining payment is enough to cover the work required. As W 
couldnt complete the repair, and this was because Ws actions were unreasonable, I note 
Aviva have agreed to consider any quote Miss H obtains to complete the work. And I think 
this is a reasonable offer to make. So, while I appreciate the inconvenience Miss H is caused 
needing to source a tradesperson herself, I dont think I can say Aviva need to do anything 
more here, as a cash settlement was initially agreed between both parties. So, Miss H 
should provide Aviva with this information for consideration.
It's also accepted that Ws actions caused damage to Miss Hs garden. So again, I would 
expect Aviva to consider, and cover, any quotes she obtained to rectify the damage that can 
be attributed to the actions of W. So, Miss H should supply this information to Aviva. I note 
from our file, I can see Miss H supplied our service with a garden quote, which we forwarded 
onto Aviva. It is between Aviva and Miss H to agree a settlement directly, as this was 
obtained and put forward after January 2023.
Ive then turned to the main area of dispute, which centres around the work required to fix 
the conservatory. Ive seen a report compiled by an independent expert, who ill refer to as 
E, in January 2023. And this states clearly that the damage present on Miss Hs 
conservatory was consistent with accidental damage and so, the fault of W.
But the report does also suggest the panels in the roof will begin to move, as the roof itself 
ages. And it also lists the pre incident condition as poor. So, Aviva believe any work above 
and beyond replacing the three panels W damaged would be placing Miss H in a position of 
betterment. But I dont think is fair here.
While I note E state the pre-incident condition was poor, I note this determination was 
made almost a year after the storm, where the conservatory was damaged initially. And 
during this time, the conservatory was awaiting a repair that wasnt provided. So, I dont think 
Es evaluation of the condition is representative of the time of the insured event.
And crucially, I think the report makes clear Ws actions, and their positioning of the 
scaffolding, has put additional pressure on the conservatory and so, caused the panels to 
slip. While this may have happened eventually, I think its reasonable for me to assume, on 
the balance of probability, that this wouldnt have happened as soon as it did, had this 
pressure not been applied.
So, if the repair to the three panels isnt successful in restoring the conservatory to its pre-
storm and damage condition, then I think Aviva should cover the costs of a roof replacement 
if that is the work that is required. Otherwise, I think Miss H will be left in a worse position 
than the one she wouldve been in, had Aviva arranged for the initial repairs needed to have 
been repaired correctly. 
Finally, I think its clear that after Miss H agreed a schedule of works, she assumed the 
repair work would be completed promptly. But due to the actions of W, this wasnt the case 
as they were removed from site and other contractors couldnt be sourced, meaning Miss H 
now needs to find her own contractors, which will no doubt create additional stress.
So, I think Aviva should compensate Miss H for this stress, and the additional delays caused 
up to January 2023. And when this is considered against Miss Hs health conditions and the 
length of time shed already been without adequate repairs and the time of year this decision 
considers, I think the impact is significant.Our investigator recommended Aviva pay Miss H an additional £250, on top of the £350 they 
already offered. And I think this total payment of £600 is a fair one, that falls in line with our 
services approach and what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. So, its what 
Im directing Aviva to pay.
I note this may not be the total outcome Miss H was hoping for. And I recognise that this 
may not reflect the additional delays, and inconvenience, Miss H has experienced since 
January 2023. But I note Aviva and Miss H have been engaging with our service as part of 
this complaint to reach an agreeable outcome. And I cant hold Aviva responsible for the 
additional time this has taken. I would expect Aviva to act proactively to receive the quotes 
required from Miss H, so a fair cash settlement award can be reached, and the claim 
concluded. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Hs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Consider and review any reasonable quotes received from Miss H for repair work 
needed to her home roof and garden with the view to providing a fair cash 
settlement;
Cover any quotes required to repair the conservatory damage, which includes a full 
roof replacement if this is deemed a requirement; and
Pay Miss H a total compensatory amount of £600 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman