DRN-3354945
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd declined his application for an account and then misled 
him about its reasons for doing so.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr L applied online for a Monzo account. His application was declined, and 
Mr L received a message from Monzo saying:
Unfortunately we cant offer you a Monzo account.
Were afraid we cant go into more detail about why we cant offer you an account. 
We assess every application using details youve given us, and any information we get from 
the credit reference agencies we use (Experian and TransUnion) or from anti-fraud services 
like Cifas.
Mr L says that he contacted Monzo and was told that his application had been declined 
because of CIFAS entries. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert system. Mr L says he checked with 
CIFAS but was told that there were no entries against his name. He therefore complained to 
Monzo that it had declined his application in error. 
Monzo said that it had not told Mr L that his application had been declined for that reason. It 
suggested that a different bank  to which Mr L had made an application at around the same 
time  had said that, but that it, Monzo, had not given any reason and did not have to.
Mr L referred the matter to this service. Our investigator thought that Monzo had assessed 
the application correctly. He was not able to tell Mr L why the application had been declined, 
but he was satisfied that it was not because of CIFAS markers. He did not therefore 
recommend that the complaint be upheld.   
Mr L did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general principle, it is for a bank to decide whether or not to offer, or to continue to 
offer, banking facilities to any customer or potential customer. And, in the absence of, for 
example, unfair discrimination, this service will not usually interfere with the exercise of a 
banks commercial judgment in deciding whether or not to open an account. I do not believe 
that I should do so in this case.
I do not believe that Monzo told Mr L that his application had been declined because of 
CIFAS markers. It said that it might use information it had obtained from CIFAS in assessing 
applications, but that is not the same as saying that it did obtain such information here or 
that it was relevant to its decision. 
Monzo has provided  in confidence, as it is allowed to do  information about its reasons for 
its decision on Mr Ls application. That application was not declined because of a CIFAS 
marker. I am satisfied however that it was declined for a reason which was fair and 
legitimate.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman