DRN-3017807
The complaint
Mr and Ms G complain their Landlords insurance policy was mis-sold by Barbon Insurance 
Group Limited (Barbon).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr and Ms G dont think they were made aware of who the insurer was. They 
have had difficulty with a claim and dont think this policy was sold in their best interests. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy was sold on an information only basis. This means no advice was given 
to Mr and Ms G about the suitability of the policy for their circumstances. Information 
about the policy was provided to Mr and Ms G and it was for them to decide if the 
policy met their needs. 
Ive listened to the call Mr G had with Barbon when the policy was taken out. Im 
satisfied he was told who the insurer of the policy was, and he was given information 
about what the policy includes. 
Mr G has suggested the recording may have been tampered with as he doesnt recall 
the conversation. He suggests it should be forensically examined. I dont think this is 
necessary, I heard nothing which suggests the recording had obviously been 
tampered with and in any event, the details are duplicated in the policy information 
Mr and Ms G were sent. 
Having reviewed the policy information, Im satisfied it clearly sets out who the 
insurer of the policy is, and it gives details of the cover the policy provides. 
I realise Mr and Ms G may have had difficulties with a claim they made under the 
policy, however this isnt Barbons responsibility. As Ive explained above, it didnt 
provide any advice to Mr and Ms G about the suitability of the policy for them. I 
understand Mr and Ms G have pursued a separate complaint about the claim against 
the insurer, which is the correct course of action to take. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Ms Gs complaint against Barbon Insurance 
Group Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman