complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs S arranged a mortgage with Nationwide in 2006. At the same time a PPI policy 
was also taken out. Even though this was a joint mortgage, only Mr S was covered by the 
policy. The PPI policy provided unemployment cover only.
After a three month free period, they paid a monthly premium for the PPI. If Mr S had made 
a successful claim for unemployment, the policy would have paid out the repayment benefit 
for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say the optional nature of the policy was not made clear. Nationwide says it 
would have made them aware the policy was optional and obtained their consent to add it to 
Mr and Mrs Ss account. Where there is a dispute I need to consider what I think is more 
likely to have happened.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the mortgage application from the time and this includes 
a section about the PPI. I can see in this section it states Mr and Mrs S were undecided 
about whether they wished to take out the cover  so at this stage it was not chosen. As this 
information is listed on their mortgage application, it would appear Mr and Mrs S were aware 
that the cover was not a requirement of their mortgage meaning it was optional. 
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer, which was issued a couple of months after the 
application, and this states that Mr and Mrs S were not required to buy any insurance 
through Nationwide. In a section titled Optional Insurance it confirms that Mr and Mrs S had 
chosen  to take out the PPI. In this same section it makes clear that the policy can be 
DRN-1034222cancelled. This would suggest that Mr and Mrs S thought about the cover following their 
mortgage application and decided that they wanted the PPI in case Mr S was to ever lose 
his job.
So on balance, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its likely Nationwide 
made Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and that they agreed to take it out, 
knowing they could refuse it if they didnt want it.
Mr and Mrs S have said they received advice about taking the policy. Nationwide has said it 
didnt recommend the PPI to them. Our adjudicator assessed this complaint as an advised 
sale and neither party responded to disagree with this. This means Nationwide had to check 
to make sure that it was right for them. But I dont think I need to decide how this policy was 
sold as it doesnt make a difference whether the PPI was recommended to Mr and Mrs S or 
not. I say this because Mr S appears to have been eligible for the cover and wasnt affected 
by any of the main exclusions or limitations under the policy. And it seems they had a need 
for the cover.
Mr and Mrs S have said they didnt need the policy as Mr S would receive six months full 
pay followed by six months half pay if he was too ill to work. But this policy only covered 
unemployment claims, not anything related to accident or sickness. So it would appear that 
Mr and Mrs S had a discussion about what cover they had elsewhere, such as Mr Ss sick 
pay benefits, and made a choice about what level of insurance would be most beneficial 
based on their circumstances.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs S have also told us they had some savings they could have used. But 
by having this policy it would have enabled them to protect their savings for another purpose 
or use them to help cover other essential living expenses they would have to pay if Mr S 
wasnt earning. As a mortgage is a large financial commitment, secured against the home, I 
think Mr and Mrs S would have felt reassured that they had protection for their mortgage if 
Mr S wasnt earning. So this doesnt change my decision.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover.
my findings
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman