DRN-2696544
The complain
Mrs P is complaining about the way that URIS Group Limited has handled the claim for 
unemployment that she made on her mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P was made redundant and her last working day was 13 March 2020 However, she had 
received three months pay in lieu of notice so technically she wasnt unemployed until 13 
June 2020. The policy stipulated that there was a one month waiting period, after which, 
claims payments would be paid in arrears at 30 day intervals. Therefore Mrs P expected to 
receive her first payment around mid August 2020 (although it was a back to day one policy 
meaning that the claim would pay out from June subject to meeting the terms and 
conditions).
Having sent her claim form to URIS on 23 March 2020, Mrs P had to regularly chase URIS 
for updates and on 9 July 2020 she logged a complaint about the delay and lack of 
communication. 
On 3 September 2020 URIS sent Mrs P its final response to her complaint. It accepted that 
its service had fallen short and therefore upheld the complaint and offered Mrs P £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill. At this point URIS had still made no decision on the claim but Mrs P was 
told that the claims department would keep her updated on the following steps.
By the beginning of October 2020 Mrs P has heard nothing further from URIS. On 2 October 
2020 our adjudicator wrote to the parties with his view that the level of compensation should 
be increased to £150 and that, as URIS had sufficient information to assess the claim, it 
should provide Mrs P with an outcome within 28 days. URIS agreed with the adjudicators 
view. However, Mrs P contacted this Service again on 20 November 2020 to say that she 
had heard nothing, after which our adjudicator again contacted URIS. After requesting more 
information, URIS eventually agreed to pay Mrs Ps claim on 9 February 2021.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that URIS has agreed the claim, I understand that Mrs P is unhappy that it has declined 
to pay for the first 30 day period of unemployment. However, as this did not form part of Mrs 
Ps originally complaint, I am unable to look at it now. If she wishes, Mrs P would need to 
make a further complaint about this matter to URIS in the first instance and then, if she is 
unhappy with its response, she can escalate the complaint to this service. Therefore, just to 
clarify, this decision is only looking at Mrs Ps complaint about delay and lack of 
communication from URIS in relation to her claim.
There was a term in Mrs Ps redundancy settlement stating that she would receive a further 
payment from her employer if she was still unemployed after six months. It is extremely 
unusual to see something like that as part of someones redundancy package and it 
therefore raised concerns with the claims handlers. It was therefore reasonable that the 
claim was passed to the technical team to assess, which would involve some extra time. 
However, Mrs P had provided the necessary information at the start of her claim and so 
URIS was well placed to reach an early decision on the matter.
Of course, URIS was dealing with difficulties raised by the pandemic, which Mrs P had 
appreciated and was understanding of for the first few months, but again, that doesnt 
account for all of the delay.
As URIS upheld the complaint, there is no dispute about the delay and lack of 
communication being unacceptable up until 3 September 2020, when URIS provided its final 
response letter. However, although it accepted his conclusions, URIS then failed to meet the 
deadline of 30 October 2020 that had been set by our adjudicator. URIS was then given until 
11 January 2020 to resolve matters, which it again failed to do. Although it did contact Mrs P 
on 11 January 2020, it was asking for information which appeared to be mostly going over 
old ground. Therefore, URIS is responsible for a further avoidable delay up until 9 February 
2021 when it finally agreed to pay Mrs Ps claim.
Putting things right
URIS should pay some additional compensation for the further delay. Overall, looking at the 
evidence, I consider it would be appropriate for URIS to pay Mrs P £225 in total 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and 
require URIS Group Limited to pay Mrs P £225 compensation for the delay and lack of 
communication when considering her unemployment claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman