DRN-3842166
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax staff treated him when he 
attended a branch.
What happened
Mr E says he went to a Halifax branch as directed to get account information. He says 
Halifax staff wouldnt provide him with the requested information and were rude towards him. 
Mr E says he was caused distress and anxiety as a result of what took place and would like 
compensation as well as an apology.
Halifax says Mr E was told the information he wanted was on his account statements which 
he had access to. It says Mr E didnt need the information as it could have been requested 
by this service in any event. Halifax says Mr Es behaviour in branch was inappropriate and 
says Mr E wasnt told he the information would be available in branch.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the information Mr E wanted was available to him and didnt think he 
had been told the branch would provide it. 
Mr E doesnt accept that view and says he should have priority as he pays £17 a month to 
Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I dont think it matters what Mr E was told about the information the branch could provide him 
with as the important part of this complaint is what took place in that branch. Halifax says Mr 
E behaved inappropriately and Mr E says it was Halifax staff that were rude to him. There is 
no video footage of what took place in branch and so I am sure Mr E appreciates that its 
simply impossible for me to be sure what happened. It follows that I cant fairly conclude 
either Mr E or Halifax acted unfairly or inappropriately.
I appreciate Mr E wanted account information, but I think its up to Halifax to decide what 
information in these circumstances it provides to its customers. Im satisfied the information 
Mr E wanted was readily available to him on his account statements in any event. I am not 
sure what the relevance of Mr E paying £17 a month is or what priority he says he should be 
given.
Overall, Im satisfied its up to Halifax to decide on the information it provides to its 
customers and that, for the reasons I have explained, I cant fairly conclude which if any side 
to this dispute acted inappropriately. It follows that I cant fairly order Halifax to pay 
compensation to Mr E or apologise as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman