DRN-3570363
The complaint
This complaints about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage that Mr K and Mr M hold jointly with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. The essence of the complaint is about how HSBC has communicated 
with them since the mortgage fell due for repayment in 2019. Both borrowers have joined the 
complaint, but all of our dealings have been with Mr M.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr K and Mr M and HSBC. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr K and Mr M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr K and Mr M have an interest-only BTL mortgage which fell due for repayment in early 
2019. Mr K and Mr M didnt repay the mortgage, but theyve continued to pay interest every 
month. Theyre trying to sell the property, but thats proving extremely difficult as its design 
and location are such that most lenders now wont contemplate offering a mortgage on it. 
That means it will only sell if a cash buyer makes and offer, and thus far that hasnt 
happened.
HSBC has made periodic calls for updates on the situation; those have been with Mr M, as 
Mr K is not free to take calls due to the nature of his employment. Mr M finds HSBCs calls 
intrusive, to the extent that hes described them as harassment. He thinks HSBC should 
extend the mortgage term (as another lender has done in respect of another BTL property 
they own), but it has said thats outside its lending policy.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC was being unreasonable or treating Mr K and Mr M 
unfairly in any way. She said that the decision not to extend the mortgage was a matter for 
HSBCs judgement and the phone calls were appropriate, given the circumstances. Mr M 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, that includes Mr Ms email of 7 July 2022 in full. Having done so, Ive reached 
the following conclusions.
The mortgage offer makes it clear that the mortgage was taken out on a non-advised basis; 
that means it was up to Mr K and Mr M to make sure the terms of the mortgage, including 
the duration and repayment method, were suitable for their needs and circumstances at the 
time. Given the non-advised nature of the mortgage, it wasnt up to HSBC to warn Mr K and 
Mr M that its lending criteria could change over time, or indeed to volunteer any other 
information that it wasnt asked for. 
This wasnt a residential mortgage; it was an arrangement between a lender and borrowers 
who were entering into a business venture for commercial gain. Any misgivings Mr K and 
Mr M might have now about the terms of the mortgage, and the obligations they agreed to 
when they took it out, are a matter for them, not for HSBC. 
Mr M makes the point that most people cannot come up with a lump sum of the amount 
needed to repay the mortgage at short notice. I understand his point, but its worth pointing 
out that he and Mr K had fifteen years to come up with the money before the mortgage was 
due, and have had another three since that time. 
Its not my role to say what HSBCs lending policy should be; thats outside my remit. All I 
can do is consider whether HSBC has applied its lending policy fairly when asked to do so. 
Im satisfied it did that when it was asked to extend the mortgage formally. Mr K and Mr Ms 
current circumstances mean they dont meet HSBCs current criteria for an extension to their 
mortgage.
I understand a different lender has made a different decision in respect of another of their 
properties, but that doesnt make HSBCs decision not to do the same unfair or 
unreasonable. Every lender has its own appetite for risk, and each lender shapes its policy 
to reflect that.
Realistically, that means Mr K and Mr Ms only means of repaying the mortgage is by selling 
the mortgaged property and/or one of the others in their portfolio. HSBC has already shown 
them a considerable degree of patience, but its not obliged to do so indefinitely. Insofar as it 
is continuing to do so (for the time being at least) HSBC is reasonably entitled to contact its 
borrowers from time to time to find out what progress theyre making with their sales. Mr M 
may find those calls unwelcome, but theyre not unreasonable, given the wider 
circumstances. 
Theres one last point; Mr M expresses particular frustration that he always ends up 
speaking to a call centre operative, when he would prefer to speak to senior manager, or 
even a lawyer who has the authority to agree to what he and Mr K want. HSBC doesnt have 
to change its debt recovery system to accommodate Mr Ms preferences, but in any event. 
Its Mr K and Mr M who owe HSBC a debt that is overdue. Its for them to come up with a 
proposal that is acceptable to HSBC, not the other way around.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman