DRN-2940429
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) gave him an overdraft when his credit 
card was already in arrears. 
Mr O is being assisted with his complaint by his father Mr O Sr. 
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns and didnt think BOS had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr O unfairly. Mr O Sr, on behalf of Mr O, disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Os complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
BOS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
BOS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B would 
be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mr O Sr says BOS Mr O was he was already in arrears on his credit card. But while its fair 
to say Mr O had a BOS credit card when he applied for his overdraft limit increases, he didnt 
have much of a balance at the time and he wasnt in arrears. So I dont agree that BOS 
increased Mr Os overdraft limit while his credit card was in arrears. 
Id also add that the limit increases were for modest amounts. And given the credits going 
into the accounts, I dont think that it was unreasonable for BOS to conclude Mr O would be 
able to repay the additional funds within a reasonable period of time. This means that I dont 
agree BOS increased Mr Os overdraft limit unfairly or irresponsibly. 
That said, even though Mr Os overdraft limit wasnt increased irresponsibly, BOS still wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr O if it applied any interest, fees and charges to         
Mr Os account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Mr O was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether 
there were instances where BOS didnt treat Mr O fairly and reasonably. 
I dont think that BOS did treat Mr O unfairly or unreasonably though. I say this because 
having looked at Mr Os statements I cant see anything to suggest that BOS ought to have 
realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. I 
accept that Mr O was using his overdraft regularly. But it is clear that funds were going into 
the account which reduced the outstanding balance and eventually brought it into credit. 
Equally while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Os 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions going from the account. Furthermore, the amount being 
credited to Mr Os account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect 
of him seeing a credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was cleared in full in 
October 2019. Ive seen what Mr O Sr has said about the source of these funds. But I cant 
see how BOS would have known about this at the time.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr O wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted BOS to any potential financial difficulty. So, in these 
circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for BOS to proceed with adding the 
interest, fees and charges it did until Mr O got in touch. 
Ive also seen what Mr O Sr has said about the offer of a further limit increase in November 
2019. But Mr Os statements dont show him being able to build up an overdraft debt after 
the facility was cleared in October 2019. There were occasions where Mr O went into a small 
debit balance because of a transaction. But the account was quickly brought into credit and I 
cant see that Mr O was charged on these occasions.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that BOS treated Mr O unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will 
be very disappointing for Mr O (and Mr O Sr)  especially as hes been waiting some time for 
this answer. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least 
feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman