DRN-4390956
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (trading as RateSetter) loaded a Cifas marker against 
his name.
Background
In October 2021, Mr G applied for a loan with RateSetter. His first payment was due on 1 
November 2021 but he didnt make it. RateSetter contacted him about this missed payment 
but he didnt respond to its communications. On 18 November, a debt advisor sent a 
proposal for a debt management plan (DMP) to RateSetter, which it accepted.
Mr G has told us he has a gambling problem. This led to him seeking advice on managing 
his debts and also voluntarily registering with GAMSTOP  a self-exclusion scheme set-up 
to protect people who are vulnerable to the risks of excessive gambling and want to protect 
themselves. He told RateSetter that he was mindful of his increasingly precarious finances in 
the summer of 2021. In its view, he knew that there was no realistic chance that hed ever 
pay back the loan it granted in October 2021.
As a result, it loaded a Cifas marker against his name for evasion of payment.
Mr G didnt think that was fair and so he complained. RateSetter didnt agree to remove the 
marker. Mr G referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who 
upheld it. The Investigator said there wasnt strong enough evidence to say that Mr G didnt 
intend to repay the loan.
RateSetter disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I must consider here is whether RateSetter acted fairly and reasonably in 
loading a marker with Cifas. Its a member of Cifas which means its agreed to abide by the 
National Fraud Database Principles. Those principles set a high standard that a firm must 
meet if it wants to load adverse information against a customers name.  
It says that in on order to do so: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted  [and]  The evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of 
the subject to the police.
The onus is on RateSetter to demonstrate that this standard has been met. Ive considered 
the evidence provided by both sides carefully and Im not persuaded that it has done so 
here.
The key factor here is what Mr Gs intentions were at the time he applied for the loan. The 
steps he has taken to better manage his personal finances, such as setting up a debt 
management plan and registering with GAMSTOP both came after the loan was granted. 
However, Mr G has conceded that his debt problems had come to a head in the summer of 
2021. I think RateSetters argument appears to be that, as he knew he was in serious 
financial difficulties and had a gambling problem, he couldnt possibly have intended to repay 
it. But I dont think that necessarily follows.
Mr G said that he was taking out the loan for debt consolidation purposes. He told our 
Investigator that, as a consequence of his addiction, he had other debts. His plan had been 
to use this loan to settle some of those debts. However, he tells us that his addiction got the 
better of him and he used it to gamble. He also told us that he intended to keep up with loan 
repayments with his wages but that he lost his job around the same time.
Nonetheless, nobody gambles with the aim of losing and so I think its far-fetched to say that 
his intention was to evade repayment of the loan. He may have had a background 
awareness of the risk that he might not be able to repay the loan, but thats not an indication 
that hes committed a financial crime and is some way short of the standard set out above.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr G accepts my decision, 
Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter should remove the Cifas marker. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman