DRN-3820089
The complaint
Mr F complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) poor service following a claim under 
his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Fs mobile phone became damaged. He contacted Aviva to make a claim. It advised that 
a replacement phone would be given to him, instead of a repair. Mr F said that he didnt want 
a replacement phone as he wanted a repair. 
Around five months later Mr F contacted Aviva again for it to process the claim. At this time, 
Aviva advised that the claims administrator had changed and none of the claim details had 
transferred over. Mr F describes then being passed from one department to another. But 
ultimately, Mr F was offered the following from Aviva, to start a new claim (taking the details 
from the previous administrator), waiving the excess fee of £75 and either paying for the cost 
of a repair at the mobile phone manufacturer or sending a replacement phone. 
Mr F was unhappy with this resolution and raised a complaint. In its final response, Aviva 
accepted that there were some customer service issues and offered Mr F compensation of 
£20. Mr F was still unhappy and as he had been given his referral rights, he referred a 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Aviva had been fair and reasonable to offer all that it had offered. She also said that 
as Mr F had waited around five months between initially contacting Aviva and trying to 
progress his claim, this added to Mr F not being aware of who to contact to progress the 
claim. Although she did acknowledge the frustration this might have caused. So, there was 
nothing further that she could reasonably ask Aviva to do to resolve this complaint. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr F did not. He asked that even though the administrator had 
changed, the insurer hadnt so why hadnt his details just been passed over to the new 
claims administrators? 
Our investigator continued her considerations of the complaint and passed these queries to 
Aviva. Aviva gave an explanation as to the handover of the administration services and also 
increased its offer of compensation to a total of £100 for the trouble and upset caused. It 
confirmed that it would waiver the excess fee of £75, making a total award of £175. It also 
said that it would either pay for the cost of the repair of the phone or replace the phone with 
a like-for- like phone (as per the policy terms and conditions). Mr F was still unhappy with 
this resolution, so asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr F, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr F initially made a claims enquiry in December 2021, when he was advised by Aviva that 
his damaged phone would be replaced rather than repaired (as per the policy terms and 
conditions). Mr F did not want this and for the next five months he didnt contact Aviva until 
May 2022, in order to proceed with the claim. But, during the five-month period, the claims 
administrator had changed. Aviva said that it was unable to transfer Mr Fs details from the 
initial claim to this new claim, given the change in the administrator and given that usually 
claims are completed quickly. In cases were there has been no progress for 90 days, the 
system automatically closes them, which happened in this case. 
Aviva has accepted that there were some customer service failings, such as not contacting 
Mr F when it should have. In addition, having listened to the call recordings, I think that when 
Mr F attempted to progress the claim, the first agent who he spoke to couldve been more 
helpful in asking more questions to see if the new claims administrators would have been 
able to help. Rather than say that he couldnt progress the claim further. 
I understand that Mr F was frustrated by Avivas claims process and has indicated his 
reliance on consumer legislation. But our service is an informal dispute resolution service, 
we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. 
In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on 
the nub of the issue. 
Consequently, looking at the resolution that Aviva has offered, namely, either paying for the 
repair of the phone (as Mr F initially requested) or replacing the phone with a like-for-like 
phone (as per the policy terms and conditions). In addition to, paying Mr F £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. As well as, continuing with the claim, whilst 
waiving the excess charge of £75, I think is fair and reasonable. 
Mr F rightly points out that he is entitled to a replacement phone, and I agree. The phone 
Aviva has confirmed will be a like-for-like and not betterment, which is not permitted under 
the policy. So, it is for Mr F to either accept Avivas offer, or not. But I wont be directing 
Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman