DRN-4442644
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N contacted RSA to make a claim when the glass door in his ride-on mower was 
damaged. RSA asked Mr N to provide quotes for the repair and said he could order the 
replacement glass. The next day, RSA told Mr N the claim wasnt covered because the 
vehicle was a tractor, which wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr N complained, RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr N 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Mr N had acted 
on the advice of RSA when he ordered and paid for the replacement glass. So, RSA should 
pay for the cost of the glass, minus the policy excess.
As RSA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 October 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I listened to the call when Mr N spoke to RSA about the claim, including how he referred to 
the vehicle. He first said it was a compact tractor or ride-on mower, as you call them. He 
also said he had spoken to the tractor company where he had got the ride-on mower from 
and twice referred to it as the machine. So, I think its reasonable that RSA was of the view 
that Mr N was claiming for a ride-on mower and that it considered the claim on that basis 
during the call. The call-handler read the policy and confirmed there was cover for ride-on 
mowers and that RSA would deal with the claim.
During the call, Mr N said he could provide photos of the vehicle. RSA also asked Mr N to 
provide quotes for the replacement glass and for fitting it. I note that Mr Ns covering email to 
RSA described it as a compact tractor and didnt refer to it as a ride-on mower and one of 
the quotes referred to the tractor unit. It was only when RSA looked at the photos and the 
quotes that it decided the vehicle was a tractor
The policy said it didnt cover motor and electric vehicles of any kind, except for items such 
as ride-on lawnmowers. Ive looked at the photos of the vehicle, online information and the 
details provided during the claim and I think it was reasonable for RSA to decide it was a 
tractor. Based on the policy wording, Im satisfied the policy didnt cover tractors. 
An insurer is entitled to review a claim, even after it has been accepted, in order to check 
what cover, if any, is available under the policy. When RSA reviewed the additional 
information provided by Mr N it decided the vehicle wasnt covered by the policy because it 
was a tractor. So, this meant RSA didnt need to cover any of the damage, even though it 
had previously told Mr N that it would. I also note RSA called Mr N promptly to tell him the 
claim wasnt covered. So, on that basis, I think RSA acted reasonably.
Im aware that during the initial phone call, Mr N asked whether he could order the glass or 
should wait until after he had provided RSA with the quote. RSA said he could order the 
glass. Im also aware that after RSA declined the claim, Mr N said he could not afford to pay 
for the repair himself. So, Ive thought about whether this makes a difference. 
From what I can see, RSA initially accepted Mr Ns description of the vehicle as being a ride-
on mower. During the first phone call to RSA, Mr N also said he had got quotes for the repair 
and it was something hed like not to pay for himself if he could help it, which is 
understandable. Although I accept Mr N might not have ordered the glass when he did if 
RSA hadnt told him he could do so, I dont think Mr N said he would only replace the glass if 
RSA was paying for it. In my view, RSA responded to the question about ordering the glass 
based on what Mr N said during the call. When Mr N provided additional information shortly 
after, RSA reassessed the claim promptly and decided the damage wasnt covered by the 
policy. Having looked at the full circumstances of what happened, Im not currently 
persuaded RSA had to pay for the glass.
Having considered what happened, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to 
require RSA to do anything further in relation to it.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 6 November 2023. 
RSA didnt reply.
Mr N replied and said he was very disappointed in my decision and the reasoning behind the 
change. In summary, he said:
The policy also covered accidental damage, which hadnt been mentioned or considered.
My decision hinged on whether the glass door was on a sub compact tractor or a ride on 
mower, one of which I said was covered and one I said wasnt. He asked that I research 
the two.
Mr N provided extracts about both types of machines and said it didnt seem fair that a 
layman paid in good faith for an insurance policy for contents, has an accident on his 
own private land and yet a claim for the accident is refused.
He wanted to challenge the decision as he felt that under his accidental policy it was very 
unreasonable and my decision hinged on the phone call and understanding of the 
differences of the two types of machine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. As part of that Ive thought about Mr Ns comments in response to my provisional 
decision, but this doesnt change my view.
I think it was reasonable for me to consider what was said in the phone call where Mr N told 
RSA he wanted to make a claim and RSA said he could order the glass. Before I made my 
provisional decision, I also looked online at ride-on mowers and tractors to see how these 
were described. I also considered whether there was cover under any part of the policy, 
including as accidental damage.
I have also thought about the descriptions of tractors and ride on mowers Mr N recently 
provided and I looked online at the vehicles described. These vehicles seemed to be of a different design to Mr Ns vehicle and it would be a hypothetical scenario for me to consider 
whether RSA should have covered one or both of those types of vehicles. Im considering 
whether it was reasonable for RSA to decide Mr Ns specific vehicle was a tractor, rather 
than a ride on mower. 
I remain of the view that it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim on the basis the 
vehicle was a tractor, which wasnt covered by the policy, and that it doesnt need to cover 
the cost of the glass Mr N ordered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman