DRN-3251605
The complaint
Mr T complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Lines (Direct Line) handling 
of a claim under his landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr T contacted Direct Line to make a claim for water damage in the 
property he rented out. He says the laminate flooring was damaged by a leak from a 
washing machine. Mr T says Direct Line arranged a remote video survey. Based on this and 
some photos, Mr T says his claim was accepted and he provided details of the likely costs to 
carry out the repairs. Mr T says his claim was then passed to another handler and he began 
to experience problems. He complained the breakdown of costings provided was rejected, 
and Direct Line refused to either provide theirs or carry out the remedial work. He 
complained to Direct Line and said to put things right he wanted the claim settled. 
Direct Line responded to Mr Ts complaints and issued two final responses. The first was 
sent in March 2021. It acknowledged a point Mr T raised about the tone of emails sent by the 
case handler and noted Mr Ts communication preference. Direct Line said it would pay Mr T 
£50 in recognition of the upset experienced. 
The second final response letter was issued in July 2021. It addressed Mr Ts concerns the 
claim remained unsettled and his view the case handler was obstructing the process. Direct 
Line said it was satisfied the enquiries its case handler made were appropriate, both in 
relation to the costs and the questions asked about the tenants. It says while Mr T provided 
information about the costs, he didnt answer the questions about the tenants. 
Unhappy with Direct Lines response, Mr T referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and said while she could see there were periods 
where there were delays, she didnt think Direct Line had caused any avoidable delays. As 
Mr T didnt agree with this, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides are aware, under this complaint reference were only considering Direct Lines 
handling of the claim up to the date of the final response in July 2021. I can see Mr T has 
raised a subsequent complaint and this is being considered separately.
It seems the crux of the issue here is the time taken for the claim to be resolved. Alongside 
this, Mr T is unhappy with what he says is an unacceptable tone from the case handler both 
in terms of general communication and also when asking for information. 
As our investigator said, its sometimes the nature with insurance claims that they can take 
some time to be resolved. And they often result in a level of inconvenience for the 
policyholder. With this in mind, Ive considered Direct Lines handling of the claim. And 
having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and Ill set out why.
Mr T says Direct Line made unreasonable requests for him to provide breakdowns of the 
quotes he provided. Ive considered these requests, but I dont agree they were 
unreasonable. 
I think its reasonable for an insurer to have wanted further information about how the quotes 
provided had been calculated. The requests were for a further breakdown of materials and 
labour. Direct Line said it was asking for a breakdown because when it had calculated the 
costs for similar works, Mr Ts quotes were higher. Ive interpreted its emails as 
fundamentally trying to understand how the quotes came to be of the figures they are. Im 
satisfied Direct Lines requests, and the tone of these requests, were reasonable. 
Mr T also complained about the communication he had with Direct Line, saying they hadnt 
adhered to his communication preference of email, that they continued to phone him asking 
for a call back but were unreachable. I can see as soon as Direct Line noted Mr Ts 
preference for email this was broadly adhered to, but they did still offer to discuss the matter 
on the phone. This seems to have been in an attempt to progress the claim. And while I can 
see there was some difficulty in returning some conversations, Direct Line has explained that 
this was because some of its employees had slightly different working patterns as result of 
the pandemic. I dont think its explanation is unreasonable here. But I can see after Mr T 
asked for calls to be made during traditional office hours, this happened. 
I can see there was a lot of back and forth between Mr T, his loss assessor, and Direct Line. 
And having reviewed the email chains carefully, I can see there are periods of time when 
both sides take a little longer to respond to each other. For example, I can see Mr T didnt 
initially provide all the information Direct Line had asked for about the tenant in the property. 
And while Direct Line didnt always reply to Mr T immediately, I dont think Mr T was 
disadvantaged. 
Im not going to ask Direct Line to make an award to reflect any inconvenience Mr T 
experienced. This is because I recognise that, at times, Mr T contributed to overall time 
taken to progress the claim by not responding to what I consider to be Direct Lines 
reasonable requests. 
In summary, while I can see the claim took time to resolve and move forward, I dont 
consider Direct Lines handling of the claim up to July 2021 was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. It follows Im not going to require it to take any further action to put things 
right.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman