DRN-2561498
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to help him when he sent 
money to one of their customers to purchase what turned out to be a stolen car. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In March 2019 Mr S bought a car from a private seller 
that hed seen advertised online. He agreed with the seller that hed split the payments in 
two, with half going to each of the sellers two accounts. This complaint is about the money 
Mr S sent to the sellers account with Nationwide. 
Mr S made two payments to the Nationwide account from his own account with a bank Ill 
refer to as H. Initially £1, on the morning of 13 March 2019. And then, later the same day, a 
second payment for £11,800. Mr S collected the car and took it home  the seller told him 
the original registration document would follow on. 
Nationwide were concerned about the activity on their customers account in relation to Mr S 
incoming payment for £11,800. They spoke to their customer and werent satisfied with their 
explanation about what the funds were for. They placed a hold on the funds while they 
looked into this. On 23 March 2019 Nationwide contacted H to find out more. H spoke to 
Mr S to confirm what had happened. 
Mr S explained that the payment was towards a car that he had in his possession. But he 
was getting increasingly concerned and confirmed he hadnt yet received the log book. He 
said hed checked all he could including HPI searches and the VIN and registration of the 
car. He asked H to tell Nationwide to hold the funds. 
On 25 March 2019 Mr S reported to H that hed checked with the DVLA who had no record 
of having received contact from the seller. He reported to H that he thought hed been the 
victim of a scam. H reported what Mr S had said to Nationwide. H later told Nationwide that 
the scam notification shouldnt have been sent. Nationwides notes say H confirmed Mr S 
had the car and it was only the logbook that was outstanding. As a result of this they 
released the funds back to their customer.
Mr S describes how he was so concerned that around this time he took his car to a local 
police station. He says they didnt examine it but checked their database and told him 
everything looked ok. 
Ultimately in late April 2019 the police attended Mr S address and seized the car. It had 
become apparent that the car was a clone of a genuine car and was stolen. H again 
reported this update to Nationwide. Mr S complained. He was unhappy that Nationwide had 
released the payment back to their customer before it had been confirmed that everything 
was ok. Nationwide sympathised with the position Mr S was in but didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. 
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam cases. 
But Mr S right to refer his complaint about the receiving/beneficiary bank to our service 
comes about following changes made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to our 
jurisdiction rules. These now allow, in limited circumstances, eligible complainants to refer 
complaints about the bank that received their funds.
 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. As he still disagrees, Mr S has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
I accept that Mr S has been a victim of crime and has acted in good faith throughout. And Im 
sorry to hear hes been a victim in this way. But I can only tell Nationwide to reimburse him if 
they are responsible for errors (within the context of our services jurisdiction) that have 
caused or contributed to his loss. 
Ive looked at the account activity on the Nationwide account and I agree that it does look 
unusual. Nationwide correctly identified this unusual activity. All banks have obligations to be 
alert to instances of fraud. Where unusual activity is spotted, Id expect them to take 
appropriate steps to investigate this. In this case, Nationwide asked their customer 
questions. This is in line with what Id expect. When they werent satisfied with the answers 
given by their customer, they contacted H to seek verification that Mr S payment was 
legitimate. 
I can see that H initially told Nationwide that they believed this to be an instance of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud. But, the following day they retracted this and said 
that Mr S had received a car in return for the payments. They said despite the concerns over 
the logbook, there was no evidence that the car was stolen. On the basis of this Nationwide 
considered that their customer was entitled to the funds and then allowed them access to 
them. I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight this wasnt the case and the car was 
actually stolen. But I dont think Nationwide reasonably could have assumed that at the time 
and not allowed their customer to make payments from their account under their mandate to 
do so.
Mr S isnt a customer of Nationwide, their mandate is to follow the instructions given to them 
by their own customer. Here, they had suspicions that something might be amiss and they 
investigated. But once it was confirmed that Mr S had received the car from their customer 
(and with no evidence at that time that it was stolen), there was no basis upon which they 
could have continued to deny their customer access to the funds. 
And whilst I understand how frustrating and upsetting this must be for Mr S, it wasnt until 
around a month later that it was confirmed that the car was stolen. Mr S had done extensive 
research prior to buying the car and as mentioned above even confirmed with the police that 
all (initially at least) appeared well. I dont think Nationwides decision to release the funds to 
their customer was unreasonable in the circumstances. And I dont therefore think that they 
need to refund Mr S. Once the car was seized by the police, I can see that this too was reported to Nationwide 
but by that point it the money had already been withdrawn. So, I dont think Nationwide 
missed an opportunity for recovery at that point either. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Nationwide did all they ought to have done 
when opening the account. And whilst I cant share the detail of this with Mr S, I am satisfied 
that there was nothing that reasonably could have given Nationwide reason to suppose that 
the account would later go on to be used in connection with fraud or scams. I dont believe 
Nationwide missed an opportunity to prevent the fraud in this way.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman