DRN-3259865
The complaint
Mr P is represented and his representative complains on his behalf that Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited [SLA] allowed his pension transfer to proceed in 2014 
without warning him about the risk factors in doing so. In particular he was not given a copy 
of the Scorpion warning. 
Mr P also complains that SLA undertook this a pension transfer to a London & Colonial 
Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) in 2014 when, as a regulated 
business, it should have been aware of the initiative to prevent pension scams. SLA should 
have been aware of the risks and carried out thorough checks. It is submitted that there were 
warnings signs that should have made it apparent to SLA that Mr P may be disadvantaged. 
He says SLA didnt contact him and warn him about the risks. 
What happened
Mr P says he was cold called by a business. This was likely wefindanypensions.com. It 
offered a free pension review. He gave that business his authority to request pension details 
and these details were obtained in November 2013. He was then put in touch with a 
business called Global Partners Limited (GPL). He says he was told that his existing 
arrangements were frozen and not generating any returns. He says he was told that if he 
transferred his pensions elsewhere he would obtain better returns. Mr P says that he had no 
knowledge of what investments would subsequently be chosen, apart from it would be 
stocks and shares. Mr P says that he was not informed of any risk to his pension and was 
told the recommendations were safe. He says he wasnt intending to live abroad but was 
advised to transfer to a QROPS.
The transferred sum to Mr Ps QROPS was invested in the Trafalgar Multi Asset Fund 
(TMAF). This has now failed and it is likely that Mr P has lost most, if not all, of the money 
invested. 
SLA didnt uphold the complaint. SLA say it checked that the receiving pension scheme was 
a HMRC approved QROPS. It said it acted on Mr Ps request to transfer and didnt act 
incorrectly in processing that transfer. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and an investigator considered the complaint. He 
didnt believe it should be upheld. In summary he said:
The Pension Regulator (TPR) had issued an Action Pack in February 2013 about 
pension liberation and scams. This set out certain things that pension schemes 
should look out for. Many of the warning signs were present in this case although 
SLA was not necessarily aware of them all. But enough were apparent to SLA that it 
should have brought about cause for concern. It was arguable whether SLA should 
have contacted Mr P and asked for more information. 
Both of the firms involved at the time (in arranging or requesting the transfer for Mr P) 
were regulated at the time. The business that made an information request to SLA 
was also regulated  although it didnt need to be. 
SLA should have sent the Scorpion leaflet to P but did not. But other pensions were 
being transferred by other providers at the time the SLA plan was being transferred. 
And Mr P had been supplied with the Scorpion leaflet on two other occasions. If he 
had concerns about the matters discussed in the leaflet then he could have raised 
this with SLA, but he did not. 
SLA checked whether the QROPS was registered with HMRC and found that it was. 
And the QROPS was being administered by a regulated entity. 
There was no indication at the time that pension liberation was taking place or that 
the investment was a scam. The investment may well have been unsuitable but it 
was not SLAs responsibility to assess suitability. 
He was not of the view that SLA should compensate Mr P for his investment losses 
and it didnt have a legitimate reason to refuse the transfer. 
Mr Ps representative dd not accept the investigators assessment. In summary it said: 
That there were warning signs about the transfer that SLA should have highlighted to 
Mr P. If it had done so then Mr P would have been better equipped to make an 
informed decision about the transfer. By not contacting Mr P SLA was in breach of its 
duties to Mr P.
The business that initially asked for pension information from SLA was unregulated. 
In combination with the presence of an EEA authorised firm, this should have raised 
concern at SLA.
SLA breached its duties to Mr P by not providing a copy of the Scorpion leaflet to 
him. By not providing such information it failed to pay due regard to Mr Ps interests. 
It was not appropriate to take into account that other providers might have sent such 
information to Mr P  this did not discharge SLAs duties. 
SLA should have contacted Mr P bearing in mind the warning signs and it then could 
have explored any other warnings signs.
Although pension liberation did not occur, there was an inducement by conflicted 
third parties to invest in a high risk and illiquid investment. Such an arrangement 
should be regarded as a scam and SLA failed to discharge its duties by not warning 
Mr P. 
Mr Ps representative asked that, if the investigator was not persuaded to change their view, 
that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman. Therefore the complaint has been passed 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment SLA was operating
in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as any rules
and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the 
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another 
personal or occupational pension scheme.Personal pension providers, like SLA are regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs 
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any 
FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do before someone can 
transfer from a personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the scorpion campaign, personal pension 
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC 
and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some 
way, suspicious. However, ahead of the scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, and 
other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about 
the dangers of pension liberation schemes:
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax 
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as 
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the 
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was 
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged 
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. 
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that 
encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR guidance
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension
providers such as SLA.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether
the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns,
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The Scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, 
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences 
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life 
examples, about pension liberation.
FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did SLA follow the relevant guidance and rules?
SLA received an email request dated 24 January 2014 from GPL for transfer values of Mr 
Ps policies. GPL also supplied a letter of authority of the same date from Mr P to obtain that 
information.
On 25 June 2014 Mr P signed an SLA discharge form requesting the transfer of his pensions 
to an L&C QROPS, and this was forwarded to SLA. So SLA would have been aware that the 
transfer was to a QROPS. And the documents also confirm that the QROPS was based in 
Gibraltar. 
I have also seen a letter dated 1 July 2014 from L&C to SLA enclosing authority to transfer 
Mr Ps pensions to it. 
SLA had previously received confirmation in 2012 from HMRC that the L&C QROPS was a 
registered scheme.
So SLA had received a valid request from Mr P to transfer his pension to the QROPS and 
carried that out.  
However Mr Ps representative says that SLA failed to inform Mr P of the risks of making the 
transfer  bearing in mind that there were warning signs that Mr P may be disadvantaged. 
Materially Mr Ps representative says that the involvement of the businesses requesting 
pension information and carrying out the transfer on behalf of Mr P and the fact he was 
transferring to an Overseas QROPS should have alerted it to the risks of that transfer  and 
made them clear to Mr P. It highlights that Mr P was not sent the Scorpion insert, which was 
included in the action pack detailed above.  
In my view SLA should have sent Mr P the Predators stalk your pension insert that was 
included in the action pack. This insert was primarily warning of the danger of unlocking cash from pensions early 
(pension liberation). It warned about receiving loans or cash incentives. It said that 
consumers should watch out for being approached out of the blue, introducers who offered 
cash incentives, companies offering loans and not being informed about the tax 
consequences. 
It should be noted that there is no evidence here of pension liberation occurring or Mr P 
being provided with loans or cash incentives. The evidence is that Mr P was advised or 
guided to transfer his pensions to a QROPS to put his money in a particular investment. In 
general there is nothing untoward about that and many individuals choose to change 
pension and make different investments. The QROPS might not have been the most suitable 
product for Mr P and the investment itself may well have been flawed, but SLAs 
responsibilities did not extend to assessing the suitability of the transfer for Mr P. It was not 
advising him. 
As the investigator discussed, whilst SLA did not provide the insert to Mr P, he was provided 
with it at the same time from other sources  so he was or should have been aware of its 
content. The leaflet set out the warning sign of being approached out of the blue or cold-
called. It also suggested that he find out about the companys (who advised him) 
background and speaking to an unrelated adviser. But Mr P proceeded with his transfer 
despite having that information.
Mr Ps representative has said that any information about pension liberation/scams, such as 
the Scorpion leaflet, provided by third parties should be disregarded. There is an overriding 
requirement that a reach a decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In 
fulfilling that requirement it would not be appropriate to ignore other relevant information, 
from whatever source, that Mr P had been provided with at the time. It is clearly relevant to 
take into account that the information SLA should have supplied was provided to him, in any 
event, by another source. 
However, as set out above, Mr Ps representative says there are additional reasons why 
SLA should have taken further steps to warn Mr P about the transfer. Materially this was 
because of the transfer overseas, the involvement of other businesses in the transfer, Mr P 
not receiving regulated advice, being recommended an unregulated and high investment 
and Mr P being told that he would achieve unrealistic returns.. A transfer overseas was one 
of the matters listed in the action pack as being a potential warning sign. So it could be 
argued that SLA should have then contacted Mr P to warn him about pension liberation and 
discuss the situation with him further. It could have then identified that he had been cold-
called and recommended he seek further advice.
However, as discussed, Mr P had been provided with the Scorpion insert which warned 
about liberation and that being contacted out of the blue was a warning sign. Mr P 
proceeded with the transfer in any event. Mr P was not accessing cash from his pension and 
so the primary risk discussed in the literature was not present. Mr P was receiving advice 
and/or guidance from an adviser  GPL  an authorised adviser regulated by the Financial 
Services Commission in Gibraltar.  Furthermore the QROPS itself was an established 
scheme from a respected provider. I dont believe there was anything of concern in the 
choice of QROPS provider. 
So, it is probable that any concerns Mr P had were likely allayed in the circumstances. He 
was receiving advice from a, on the face of, it authorised adviser and was not participating in 
the type of scheme or arrangement that the Scorpion literature discussed. Mr P was only 
transferring his pension to invest, something that was not unusual. If SLA had contacted Mr 
P it would have been limited in what it discuss  it was not advising him and could only realistically set out factual matters he might want to think about. Which could have included 
thinking about the nature of a QROPS and any subsequent investments that were to be 
made. Given what knew about GPL at the time and the fact it was authorised in the EEA, it 
would not have been appropriate for SLA to make any negative comment about its 
involvement  and I do not believe it would have done so. It was not for SLA to assess the 
suitability of that transfer or the investment or assess the risk of the investment for Mr P
I have taken into account all the evidence, including what Mr P has told us, I dont believe it 
has been demonstrated as more likely that Mr P would not have transferred had SLA 
contacted him (assuming that SLA should have done so). Mr P may well have lost out as a 
result of the transfer because of the actions of third parties and that is very unfortunate. But 
in these specific circumstances I dont believe SL has caused that or is responsible for that 
loss. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman