DRN-3155432
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with excess mileage charges. These were billed when her hire agreement 
was terminated by Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Jaguar Contract Hire following Miss W 
having problems with her car.
What happened
 In April 2018 Mrs W acquired a new car using a hire agreement provided by Lex. The 
agreement was for 48 months and had a mileage allowance of 6,000 miles a year. Mrs W 
says she asked about increasing this to 10,000 miles a year when she took the agreement 
but says she was told by the dealer it wouldnt make a difference.
In early 2019 a warning light on the car came on when it had completed around 9,000 miles 
and it was returned to the dealer, where it required servicing. Mrs W was unhappy with this 
as she wasnt expecting the car to need a service until it had completed around 21,000 miles 
or until it was two years old. Mrs W paid around £400 for the service. The money was 
eventually returned to her, but this took several months. 
Following this, the car began to have issues with the EGR and Diesel Particulate Filter 
(DPF) system. In February 2019 and twice in March 2019 the manufacturers roadside 
assistance was called out as warning lights appeared on the car. In April 2019 the EGR and 
DPF needed replacing, Lex say this was due to the DPF being blocked beyond repair and 
EGR blocked. 
Mrs W says she was told the issues were due to her driving style. She complained to Lex in 
July 2019, as she said she explained to the dealer before she acquired the car that it would 
mainly be used for short journeys  which Lex accepts the car wasnt suitable for. 
In August 2019 Lex issued its final response. It said the dealer had now closed so it couldnt 
investigate what Mrs W said further. It said because of this, it had no reason to doubt her 
version of events and it accepted she told the dealer how the car would be driven.
Lex said it would allow Mrs W to terminate the agreement early at no cost. But, it said she 
would be liable for any damage or excess mileage charges. The agreement was then 
terminated.
In September 2019 Mrs W was sent a mileage termination invoice. This explained the car 
had covered 15,606 miles at the point the agreement was terminated. It said this was 7,221 
miles over the allowance at this time. Lex charged Mrs W £1,081.43 for the excess mileage. 
Mrs W was also charged for some damage to the car, but she isnt disputing this.
Mrs W was unhappy with this charge and brought her complaint to our service. She said the 
car wasnt fit for purpose. She said the service she received from the dealer network was 
very poor. And she said she shouldnt be liable for the excess mileage charges. She said 
because she was told the issues with the car were due to her driving style, shes had to 
complete longer journeys to clear the DPF so the car has done more miles.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said, in summary, that Lex had done what we would expect to see for a car that 
was of unsatisfactory quality. She said that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) a 
deduction can be made for fair usage by a business. So, she didnt think the excess mileage 
charge should be refunded.
Mrs W was unhappy with this. She said because the agreement had been terminated early, 
she didnt have the chance to lower the mileage used towards the end of the agreement. 
She said she couldve done things like use her partners car for lifts and socialising. She said 
she couldve saved up to cover an excess mileage charge. Or she said she might have got a 
new agreement for another car that absorbed this expense. She also pointed out due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic that she wouldnt have used the car as much, so the mileage wouldve 
dropped.
I sent Mrs W and Lex a provisional decision on 3 November 2021. This explained I was 
thinking of coming to a different outcome to that reached by our investigator. My findings 
from this decision were as follows:
Mrs W complains about a car supplied using a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mrs Ws complaint against Lex.
Mrs W has raised several complaint points about various customer service issues shes had 
with the dealer network. Lex arent responsible for the customer service provided here, so I 
havent commented further on this in my decision. Nor will I comment on the damage 
charges as Mrs W has accepted these.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Right Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says, 
amongst other things, that goods should be reasonably fit for a particular purpose, if before a 
contract is made a consumer makes known to the trader any particular purpose for which 
they are contracting the goods.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute from either party what happened here. Lex have accepted 
that Mrs W told the dealer about the short journeys she would be doing in the car. And Lex 
accepts the car wasnt suitable for this. Given this, Im satisfied the car was not reasonably fit 
for purpose. So, what I need to consider is whether what Lex have done to put this right  
including charging Mrs W for mileage - is fair and reasonable.
Lex said to Mrs W that they would allow her to terminate the agreement early. Im satisfied 
this effectively meant Mrs W exercised her right to reject the goods under the CRA. This is 
one of the remedies available for where goods are not fit for a particular purpose. Im 
satisfied this was a fair way of dealing with the issues with the car. So, I now need to 
consider if it was reasonable for Lex to charge Mrs W for being over her mileage allowance. 
On the agreement for the car Mrs W signed, it explains there is both an annual and a total 
mileage limit of 6,000 and 24,000 miles respectively. Lex has explained Mrs W was over the 
pro-rated allowance for when she handed the car back. The agreement explains if Mrs W 
goes over the allowed mileage, shell be charged 14.96 pence per mile.
Ive thought about what Mrs W said about this. She explained she might have used the car 
less towards the end of the agreement. She said, for instance, she couldve used her 
husbands car to make journeys. But, on balance it doesnt seem likely to me that this would 
be the case. If this was an option for her, it seems likely she wouldve either saved the cost 
of this second car, or the mileage she covered wouldve already been lower.I appreciate Mrs W says she couldve saved up to pay any excess mileage. This still 
wouldve meant her paying this cost. But, I do accept she might have done this and avoided 
paying a lump sum. And, I also appreciate she had to pay for the mileage charge at a point 
she wouldnt have been expecting to.
Ive thought about what Mrs W said about asking the dealer to increase the mileage under 
the agreement to 10,000 a year. But, even if Mrs W did ask this, she then wouldve been 
paying more every month under the agreement. And, if instead the cost was absorbed into a 
new agreement as she explained, shed also still be paying for it. So, I cant see overall that 
shes lost out here. But, again, I do accept either of these options wouldve meant her being 
able to spread out the cost.
Mrs W said she had to use the car more due to being told her driving style wasnt right for it. 
But, having looked at the mileages available it appears Mrs W wouldve been over her 
mileage allowance before this happened and I cant see this changed significantly to explain 
her being over the limit.
Ive thought about what Mrs W said about COVID-19 here. I accept that had Mrs W kept her 
car, the usage of it may well have gone down because of the pandemic. But, Mrs W was 
charged for the mileage in September 2019  some time before any measures were put in 
place in the UK due to COVID-19. This was an unprecedented event and I dont think Lex 
couldve seen this coming. I need to consider if what Lex did was reasonable at the time, not 
what wouldve been fair with the benefit of hindsight.
I need to consider the fact that the price Mrs W was paying to hire the car was based, in 
part, on the mileage Lex was expecting the car to cover. The car had covered more miles 
than Lex expected it to when it took it back. So, thinking about all of this, it initially looks as 
though Lex have acted reasonably  although as I explained above I do think Mrs W has had 
to pay a lump sum out for the mileage when its possible she wouldnt have had to do this 
under different circumstances. But, I need to think about the broader picture here. And I think 
there are some things Lex didnt consider when it allowed Mrs W to reject the car.
Firstly, Im satisfied Mrs W has suffered distress and inconvenience because of what went 
wrong here. I think it wouldve been stressful and upsetting to find out the car she acquired 
wasnt suitable for her. Shes had to take the car for repairs. And shes had to have the 
manufacturers roadside assistance to attend to breakdowns several times. Ive considered 
that Mrs W went to the trouble of finding and acquiring this car expecting to have it for 
several years, where shell now have to go through this process again. And Ive also thought 
about the fact Mrs W had to pay a lump sum out for the mileage charge at a point she 
wouldnt have been expecting it.
Im also satisfied that Mrs W has effectively had impaired usage of the car for a time. I say 
this as she explained she had to change her driving style after the repairs  so the car wasnt 
performing as she expected it to. As I said earlier, I dont think this explains the car being 
over Mrs Ws agreed mileage limit. But, I am satisfied its most likely she did alter her driving 
style and must have been regularly taking the car on longer journeys, as it appears the 
issues with the DPF stopped at this time.
Ive thought about what feels fair and reasonable to put this right. Thinking about things in 
the round here, rather than awarding separate amounts for the above along with any 
associated interest, I think Lex should simply reimburse Mrs W for the cost of the excess 
mileage.
I gave Lex and Mrs W four weeks to come back with any further comments or information. 
Mrs W responded and said she thought the decision was fair and accurate. Lex also responded and said it had nothing further to add and would accept the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. This is 
for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Jaguar Contract Hire to reimburse Mrs W £1081.43.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman