DRN-1818923
 
The complaint
Mr D complained that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr D took out 3 Cashfloat loans during October and November 2019. 
Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 08/10/2019 29/10/2019 1 £200.00 £233.60
2 01/11/2019 27/11/2019 1 £200.00 £241.60
3 29/11/2019 26/02/2020 3 £400.00 £194.87
Mr D mainly said that Cashfloat had failed to carry out necessary affordability and credit file 
checks. One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and Cashfloat told us about these 
loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Ds circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Cashfloat to ask Mr D for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Mr D had taken out, 
the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Cashfloat 
shouldve alerted Cashfloat to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. In summary, Mr D felt that had Cashfloat done better checks, and taken into 
account information about his creditworthiness, it couldve seen the lending wasnt 
sustainably affordable. And especially by the time he was applying for his third loan, 
Cashfloat shouldve seen there was a pattern forming. So Mr D believed Cashfloat 
shouldnt have provided these loans to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cashfloat provided Mr D with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Cashfloat 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cashfloat was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr D before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Ds applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. And it relied on information Mr D provided about his monthly income 
and expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies. 
It says the information it had about Mr D showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think Cashfloat was wrong to lend Mr D loan 1. As this was his first loan with 
Cashfloat, at this early stage, Mr D didn't have any track record with the lender that 
shouldve alerted Cashfloat to any underlying money problems. The information Cashfloat 
had gathered about Mr Ds finances suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr D provided or the other information 
Cashfloat had recorded, which meant that Cashfloat shouldve taken steps to check the 
information Mr D had declared. So I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr D took out the second loan a couple of days after he paid loan 1  and he 
borrowed the same amount again. But I dont think that was enough on its own to make 
Cashfloat think that it shouldnt have kept lending to Mr D. 
Cashfloat asked Mr D to update the information he provided about his finances each time he 
applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Mr D. There 
was no material change in his financial circumstances as far as I can see. It looked like hed 
been able to pay his first loan without difficulty.
So I don't think there was anything to make Cashfloat think that Mr D would find it hard to 
manage the loan repayments on loan 2. And I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 2.loan 3
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr D applied for loan 3 just two days after paying 
loan 2  and now he was asking to borrow twice as much as hed borrowed on any single 
loan before.  
Ive considered whether this mightve been an early warning sign that shouldve made 
Cashfloat think carefully about why Mr D needed to borrow again so soon after paying 
loans 1 and 2. 
But I dont think these things on their own were enough to make Cashfloat think that Mr D 
was becoming increasingly indebted or struggling with being over stretched financially. 
I think its fair to take into account that loan 3 still looked to be comfortably affordable for 
Mr D. He hadnt shown Cashfloat any signs that he was finding it hard to pay for his 
borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Cashfloat had collected, seem 
to support Cashfloats lending decision  loan 3 appears to have been affordable for Mr D on 
the available information. 
There wasnt anything I can see in the credit check information that Cashfloat could see that 
wouldve made it realise that he couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. And 
I think it was too soon for Cashfloat reasonably to be able to identify any particular pattern of 
lending.
Looked at overall, thinking about the amount of the total monthly repayments he had to 
make for each of his loans, the questions Cashfloat asked Mr D and keeping in mind that 
these were Mr Ds first three loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat to rely on 
the level of information Mr D was providing. 
Im sorry that Mr D found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality it looks 
likely that Mr Ds financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided 
or the other information Cashfloat obtained. 
Mr D feels that Cashfloat didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before agreeing 
to lend to him. But its reasonable to expect that Cashfloat couldve only decided Mr Ds 
lending applications based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage 
of the lending relationship, and given these loan amounts, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve required Cashfloat to ask Mr D to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. 
So I dont think Cashfloat did anything wrong when it made its lending decisions based on 
the information it had at the time.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Cashfloat did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr D. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr D but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman