DRN-1906911
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC offered after it incorrectly 
placed a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
Mr C was in the process of applying for mortgages through a number of providers and his 
applications were declined by each. After further investigation he discovered that a fraud 
marker had been applied against his name on a fraud prevention database. This marker had 
been applied by Barclays, so he made a complaint.
Barclays looked into Mr Cs concerns. It discovered that it had incorrectly applied the marker 
and removed it immediately. It apologised to Mr C for the error and offered to pay him £800 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays response. He felt the £800 offered didnt accurately reflect 
the harm caused by the marker. He wanted Barclays to take into consideration the following 
issues hed been caused:
 The refusal of several mortgage applications and the administration, brokerage and 
inconvenience costs caused
 Loss of earnings from having to investigate the cause of the declined applications
 The fact that he was forced to continue renting in accommodation that was 
unsuitable for him and his family
 The stress and ill health caused to both him and his family
As Mr C was unhappy with the offer of compensation made by Barclays, he came to our 
service to look into things further.
An Investigator looked into the evidence supplied by both parties. He also obtained 
information from the third-party financial businesses that had declined Mr Cs mortgage 
applications. 
Upon review of the evidence, the Investigator found Barclays offer to be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. Whilst he acknowledged the error made by Barclays, he didnt find that 
the applications were declined as a result of the incorrect marker placed against Mr Cs 
name. So, he couldnt reasonably hold Barclays accountable for the detriment caused from 
these declined applications. He added that there was a significant period where the marker 
was held against Mr C without him knowing, furthering his opinion that its impact was limited.
As he didnt find Barclays error responsible for the declined applications, he didnt think it 
fair to hold Barclays responsible for the detriment this caused. He did however acknowledge 
that embarrassment and distress was caused as a result of the marker applied. So, he found 
Barclays offer of £800 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators assessment. He remained of the opinion that his 
mortgage application was declined as a result of the erroneous marker. He thought this as 
the reason for decline hadnt been disclosed to him.
The Investigator requested permission from Barclays and the two third party businesses to 
share the reasons for decline. Barclays, and one of the third-party businesses, agreed to 
share the information.
Mr C remained unhappy as he still felt the marker was the reason for decline, so the matter 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has acknowledged its error in placing the fraud marker against Mr Cs name. Once 
it made this discovery, it removed the marker and offered Mr C compensation for the 
detriment caused. As Barclays has already admitted its error, I see no reason to cover this in 
my decision.
What is in dispute here is the amount of compensation offered by Barclays for the 
consequences caused by that error. 
Mr C has pointed out that he feels the decline of several mortgage applicationsincluding 
one with Barclayswere solely due to the erroneous fraud marker. And as a result of these 
declined applications, he wants to be compensated for the earnings he lost out on while 
investigating the reasons for this, the financial loss on property purchases that fell through, 
the fact that he had to continue to rent rather than pay a mortgage and the detriment caused 
to his health.
Firstly, Id like to point out that the role of our service isnt to punish financial businesses for 
the errors its made. But to put the consumer into the position they would have been in and 
consider appropriate compensation awards for any financial and non-financial losses.
It has been established through third party information requests that the reasons why Mr Cs 
applications were declined through third party providers wasnt due to the marker Barclays 
had placed. So I dont think its reasonable to hold Barclays accountable for any detriment 
caused as a result of these declined applications; as it didnt affect their outcome.
Mr C still believes that the reason for his Barclays mortgage application being declined was 
due to the marker placed. But Im not persuaded from the evidence Mr C has providedand 
that provided by Barclaysthat this was the case. Whilst Mr C has cited a paragraph from 
Barclays reason for decline as being linked to an incident that occurred in 2015, I cant say 
that this satisfies me that the decline was solely based upon the information it had recorded 
with a fraud marker agency. Furthermore, Barclays has said that the reason for decline was 
based on a number of factors unrelated to the marker. So again, I dont find it reasonable to 
consider the impact the marker had here considering it wasnt the reason for decline.
However, I do agree that there would have been an impact overall in the embarrassment 
and inconvenience caused by the marker being placed erroneously. And this no doubt 
caused Mr C distress. I must also consider that during the period of just over four years from 
the marker being placed to Mr Cs discovery of it, he hasnt been able to evidence any 
detriment that it caused. I do think that this goes further in evidencing that the period of 
distress and inconvenience was limited to the time in which Mr C discovered the marker and 
its removal.Whilst I can understand why Mr C has made a linkage between the declined applications 
and the marker placed, Im persuaded that the evidence suggests that this isnt the case 
here.
Putting things right
Taking all the information above into consideration, I find the £800 in compensation offered 
by Barclays for the distress and inconvenience caused fair and reasonable.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer to pay compensation of £800 to Mr C 
is fair. If it hasnt already made this payment to Mr C, it should now go ahead and do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman