DRN-3443276
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limiteds actions before it obtained a County Court Judgement (CCJ) in her name.
 
What happened
In August 2015 Cabot acquired a debt from a mail order company (S) in Mrs Hs name. 
Cabot carried out a tracing exercise and located what it believed to be Mrs Hs address. 
Cabot used the details it found and wrote to Mrs H in October 2015 to confirm the new 
arrangements. Cabots letter asked Mrs H to get in contact to discuss repayment. Cabot also 
tried to contact Mrs H over the phone. 
Mrs H has told us that she had got married which meant her surname changed and moved 
in the months before Cabot wrote to her. As a result, she didnt receive Cabots 
correspondence. 
In May 2016 solicitors acting for Cabot obtained a CCJ in Mrs Hs name for the outstanding 
balance plus costs. 
Mrs H complained to Cabot and it issued a final response in January 2022. Cabot said it had 
tried to discuss the account with Mrs H before it obtained a CCJ and didnt uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They explained we couldnt 
consider a complaint about issues that occurred after a CCJ was obtained by Cabot. But the 
investigator said we could consider Cabots actions in the run up to the CCJ it obtained. 
The investigator thought Cabot had made reasonable attempts to contact Mrs H before 
obtaining a CCJ. Mrs H asked to appeal and said she thought Cabot shouldve been able to 
trace her after it acquired the debt. As Mrs H asked to appeal, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, we can only look at Cabots actions before the CCJ was put in 
place. My decision will focus on events that occurred prior to May 2016.
When Cabot acquired Mrs Hs account in August 2015 it was given an address by S. But 
Cabot carried out a tracing exercise and located what it thought was Mrs Hs address. Our 
investigator has given the details of the address Cabot located for Mrs H. But Mrs H has told 
us shed got married and moved from that in the months before the account was sold to 
Cabot. I appreciate Mrs H had moved and that her name changed, but Im satisfied Cabot 
used the address information it had available. And I think it took reasonable steps to try and 
contact Mrs H and trace her. 
Cabot has also told us Mrs H didnt maintain up to date address details with S which meant it 
wasnt given up to date information when it acquired the debt in August 2015. I think thats a 
reasonable point. I have no reason to doubt that if S had Mrs Hs up to date address in 
August 2015 it wouldve given it to Cabot. That wouldve mean Cabots collections letters 
were sent to the right address. 
As no contact with Mrs H was made and no payments were received, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Cabot to consider legal action. The account was passed to Cabots solicitors 
with pre claim information sent to the address it had traced for Mrs H. I havent been 
persuaded Cabot acted unfairly or failed to take reasonable steps to contact Mrs H. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman