DRN-1197651
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) should 
refund two payments of £40.36 collected from her bank account in March 2019 for a 
breakdown cover policy (policy).
What happened
Miss S took out a policy with AA commencing 13 March 2018. 12 monthly payments were 
collected in respect of this policy, one at £19.29 and 11 at £19.24. The last payment of 
£19.24 was collected in January 2019, for the cover period 13 February to 12 March 2019. 
The monthly cost of the policy had been discounted, for one year only, by approximately 
50%.
Miss S policy renewed commencing 13 March 2019. 12 monthly payments were scheduled 
to be collected in respect of this policy, all at £40.36. Two payments were collected for this 
policy in March 2019, the first (4 March) for the cover period 13 March to 12 April 2019 and 
the second (28 March) for the cover period 13 April to 12 May 2019.
On 1 April 2019 Miss S called the AA to complain that she:
didnt receive her renewal documents for 2019/20
she was advised that if cover was cancelled within 6 weeks of renewal any premiums 
paid would be refunded
On or around the same time Miss S cancelled the direct debit instruction held by the AA with 
her bank to ensure no further premiums could be collected.
On 10 May 2019 AA responded to say:
renewal documents for 2019/20 were sent on 24 December 2018
she wasnt advised that if cover was cancelled within 6 weeks of renewal any 
premiums paid would be refunded
premiums are refundable on annual policies cancelled within 6 weeks of renewal, but 
not rolling monthly policies, and its the latter type of policy that Miss S holds/held
On or around the same time AA cancelled Miss S policy with nothing further to pay.
Unhappy with AAs response Miss S referred her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who ultimately concluded that 
AA had done nothing wrong and Miss S was due no refund.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators conclusion so the complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having considered what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied that in 
March 2018 Miss S took out a continuous cover policy. And under such a policy:
provided the applicable premium has been paid, [cover] will continue until it is cancelled 
[cover can be cancelled at any time] by giving a minimum of 30 days notice
"[once made] cancelation will take effect at the next payment date following the end of the 
notice period
In essence what I need to decide here is whether the above terms were applied correctly, 
fairly and reasonably in the particular circumstances of this case.
when did Miss S cancel her policy?
I accept that Miss S called AA on 9 March 2019. However, I find AAs submission that 
Miss S was never connected to an operator during this call to be both plausible and 
persuasive, particularly when considered against the call notes made by AA dated 
1 April 2019.
So this leads me to conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that the first time Miss S asked 
AA to cancel her policy was on 1 April 2019.
on the understanding Miss S cancelled her policy on 1 April 2019, what premiums was she 
required to pay?
Having called AA on 1 April 2019, cancelation was due to take effect on 13 May 2019 (the 
next payment date following 30 days notice starting 1 April 2019). And the premiums for this 
cover period (13 March to 12 May 2019) equates to two payments of £40.36.
So in my view AA has collected from Miss S what it was entitled to collect and she isnt 
entitled to any refund.
 
 
 
other mattersMiss S submits that she was told that if she cancelled her cover within six weeks of renewal 
any premiums paid in respect of that cover period would be refunded. Now I accept I cant 
say for certain she wasnt given this incorrect information, particularly in the absence of call 
recordings. But based on call notes provided Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, 
that Miss S wasnt misled as she submits. I think its also worth pointing out that even if I had 
concluded Miss S was misled as she submits I wouldnt have necessarily directed AA make 
the refund being sought by Miss S.
Miss S also submits that she didnt receive her renewal documents. However Im satisfied 
that these were sent and it would be neither fair, nor reasonable, for me to hold AA liable for 
their non receipt.
As I have already said I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by this decision, but taking 
everything into account I dont think AA has done anything wrong in this case and it need not 
make the refund to Miss S she is seeking. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman