DRN-3775422
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
pension scheme, to a type of personal pension plan.
Parker Kelly Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to PKFS.
What happened
Mr B approached PKFS in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. The parties 
were known to each other, PKFS having previously provided Mr B with financial advice.
The pension in question was deferred and was related to a previous employment Mr B had 
with a large company, several years previously. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of the pension was approximately £167,748 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
PKFS completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives. It also carried out an assessment of his attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced / average. Information gathered by PKFS about Mr B was broadly as follows:
Mr B was 64 years old, married with no dependent children. 
Mr B ran a business and earned in the region of £150,000 per year. Mrs B earned 
around £20,000 from her own business.
He was described as being in good health at the time of the advice, but he had an 
ongoing medical condition which required monitoring.
PKFS said Mr Bs home and business together amounted a substantial amount. 
Mr B also had a defined contribution (DC) personal pension of his own. This pension 
is not the subject of a complaint.
On 13 December 2017, PKFS advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension plan arrangement. It noted he wanted to buy a holiday home overseas with the tax-
free lump sum hed be able to access by transferring. It also put forward some reasons of 
flexibility for the transfer, which it said suited Mr Bs circumstances. Mr B followed the 
advice but in 2021 he complained to PKFS because he thought the transfer advice had been 
unsuitable for him. Mr B is represented in bringing the complaint and said he wasnt given 
enough information and that hes suffered a loss as a result of PKFSs advice. 
He later referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, PKFS said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PKFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Ive also comprehensively considered PKFSs responses to the complaint. I have further 
considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 
that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
PKFS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from Mr Bs DB 
scheme, to a personal pension, was in his best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Financial considerations / comparisons 
Normally, in pension transfer cases, Id have expected to see some comparisons about 
whether transferring out was financially viable. And often Id expect to see this demonstrated 
in the critical yield figures which would come from an analysis carried out or commissioned 
by the adviser. 
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, in this case PKFS didnt carry out such analysis. This is because Mr B was already 
64 years of age and the NRA of his scheme was 65. As he had only a few more months 
before reaching the NRA, I agree that this type of analysis would have been of very limited 
value. This means that a relatively straightforward comparison of whether his pension could 
grow by enough outside the DB scheme to make the transfer worthwhile isnt available, nor 
is it really relevant here.
Mr Bs age and circumstances were somewhat different to those we normally see in these 
types of complaint. I think its fair to say, for example, that Mr and Mrs B were relatively well 
off financially, by the standards of most people. Mr B earned £150,000 per year. 
I also accept that Mr Bs business interests would have meant that retirement probably 
meant different things to him. We now know he continued to have an involvement in his 
business for a period thereafter and his high salary continued beyond the age of 65 
meaning he was an additional rate taxpayer. He then subsequently reduced his income 
considerably, but would have still been a higher rate taxpayer. Given his circumstances, I 
think its likely Mr B would / will remain a higher rate taxpayer. This becomes relevant further 
down.
However, as a DB scheme, the amount hed receive in retirement for the question Im 
looking into here, was pre-determined and hed have been able to see what his annual 
pension would be. As this wasnt a DC scheme, this pension didnt have the flexibility to pay 
Mr B more in certain years over others.
Early stages / information gathering
PKFS was contracted to give Mr B regulated financial advice. So, I think its fair to hold the 
firm to the standards wed expect to see in gathering information about a client before 
advising them to irreversibly transfer away from a DB pension scheme. I think PKFS will 
understand this and also that it needed to be mindful of the starting point as dictated by the 
regulator- that transferring away from such a scheme should first be considered unsuitable. 
I acknowledge PKFS may have had a previous and ongoing relationship with Mr B, but I 
think there were some shortcomings in the information gathered by PKFS on the relevant 
forms during this advice. This is important, because PKFS needed to demonstrate clearly 
why transferring-out was suitable at the time. Like our investigator, I think the details of an 
apparent holiday home purchase were mentioned - but they were unclear. I cant see 
evidence this plan was discussed in any great depth, for example, showing what the overall 
costs of the house were or level of funds required to complete the purchase. And PKFS itself 
acknowledges that the option of taking a loan out for this ought to have been discussed, 
rather than only considering the transfer from his DB scheme pension. Mr and Mrs B 
appeared to have a large disposable income available to them, so I think there were a lot of 
other potential options that should have been considered if this house purchase really was a 
reason PKFS was using to add weight to the transfer rationale, rather than him transferring 
away from this pension.
I also find some of the omissions about Mr Bs broader financial assets on the fact-find to 
lack credibility. He and Mrs B appeared to have property and business assets of £3.4 million, 
but no savings or non-pension investments were recorded. Under current employment 
details, the fact-find also implied Mr Bs current intentions were to retire at the age of 65. I 
think this is either an error, or it raises fundamental questions about the suitability of the 
recommendations, which Ill explain about below. PKFS also failed to investigate what Mr and Mrs B retirement income needs were likely to be. As he was almost 65 and Mrs B was 
already 65, I think this was relevant if considering a pension transfer because it was 
important to consider what income they had to live on. Mr Bs other (DC) pension was 
relatively modest and Mrs Bs pension (if she had one) wasnt recorded at all. Both were due 
to receive the state pension, but none of this was discussed in any detail according to 
documents Ive seen. In short, what Mr and Mrs B would use to fund their retirement wasnt 
made clear enough.
The recommendation
What we know about the advice is that PKFS recommended Mr B to transfer the £167,748 
away from his DB scheme. PKFS said if he made this transfer, he could then access 25% of 
this tax-free, as per the rules, and invest the remained in his other pension  an existing DC 
scheme. The advice was essentially based on the following rationale:
There was a mention that Mr B wanted to use the transferred funds to help buy a 
home oversees.
If he didnt transfer from the DB scheme, he could still take some tax-free cash when 
he reached 65, but the remaining 75% would be subject of 45% tax because Mr B 
was currently an additional rate taxpayer.
If he transferred away from the DB scheme, the tax-free element he could access 
would be around £41,000, rather than only around £32,000 if remaining with the DB 
scheme.
Ive therefore considered these issues in turn.
The holiday home overseas
As Ive said, Ive seen no detailed information about this. I accept it was discussed as it was 
recorded on documentation from the time. The recommendation report said, the funds from 
the [tax-free lump sum] are to be used to fund the purchase of a holiday home. But theres 
nothing showing Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have been able to afford this from other sources. 
Whilst there were no savings or investments recorded in the fact-find what Ive seen 
elsewhere implies differently. We can see, for instance, that a mortgage existed on their 
main residence and a reason for this was that Mr B preferred to retain control of capital. I 
also think their circumstances strongly suggest they would have some other means / capital 
available to them. Mr B also appears to have removed some tax-free cash from his other 
DC pension at some point, but the whereabouts of this money wasnt clear.
So, essentially, we dont know much about this property purchase, how much it was, 
whether it was a priority  and certainly, why it couldnt be funded by alternative means. 
2017 was a very low interest rate period, and Mr and Mrs B appeared to have means to 
have a deposit and to also borrow in the normal way at very low interest rates. If this 
purchase really was an objective, then PKFS should have been much clearer in obtaining 
the right information before recommending the transfer.
Tax and tax-free cash
I think this case and the advice surrounding it was largely about tax. For understandable 
reasons, Mr B probably wanted to use his wealth efficiently and the adviser clearly wanted to 
help Mr B legitimately pay as least tax as possible. If Mr B didnt transfer from the DB scheme, PKFS said he could still take some tax-free cash 
when he reached the age of 65, but it said the remaining 75% would be paid as an annual 
pension and therefore at that time be subject of 45% tax; this is because Mr B was then an 
additional rate taxpayer. I of course recognise that whilst a part-owner of the business, this 
would have meant Mr B would likely continue to be a significant taxpayer for the immediate 
future. However, I think its also fair to say the payment of tax at the 45% rate would reduce 
at some point. And as I pointed out earlier, the fact-find does say his intended retirement 
from the current role was 65. In any event, Ive seen nothing showing that Mr B expected to 
pay the additional rate tax rate for the rest of his life, and I think the evidence points to this 
tax rate reducing at some point. This subsequently happened.
I think its also important to bear in mind that if taking tax-free cash from the DB scheme 
upon reaching 65, this DB pension would only be £4,800 per year. So if his earnings 
reduced as it was fairly likely they would, having the annual pension wouldnt likely push him 
back up to the much higher taxation band. 
So I think these things show that using the rationale of Mr B being an additional rate 
taxpayer didnt necessarily justify the advice to irrevocably transfer away from the DB 
scheme. His DB pension in payment was relatively low and the likelihood was that Mr Bs tax 
rate would reduce at some point soon. Recommending that he transfer out due to high tax 
rates wasnt therefore justified.
PKFS also promoted to Mr B that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension arrangement. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-
sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly if he transferred away. On the other 
hand, if sticking with the DB pension and taking a tax-free lump-sum, this would only yield 
19% in tax-free cash.
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But PKFS should have been telling Mr B at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension also came with consequences in 
that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. In any event, I 
dont think this difference changes anything. Ive already explained how I dont think the 
holiday home purchase was genuinely material to this advice  and Mr and Mrs B clearly 
enjoyed wealth from other sources. So, in the unlikely event this immediate difference of 
£10,000 between the two tax-free lump sums really was crucial, Id have expected to see 
this substantially explained in the recommendation. It wasnt and so I think its reasonable to 
conclude that it didnt materially matter in his case.
What Mr B was giving up
This is a relatively unusual case in the sense that everything we can see is strongly 
suggestive of Mr and Mrs B enjoying significant wealth; all the indications are they would 
probably have a good retirement from a financial perspective.
I think it was fair that PKFS didnt produce critical yield rates, but it failed to set out what Mr 
and Mrs Bs retirement income requirements were and more importantly, how they would 
meet them. As Ive said, I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs B had little or no other savings, but I 
also accept we simply dont know. In essence, Mr Bs pensions were relatively modest 
affairs: his DC pension had reduced down to around £112,000 after hed taken some tax-
free cash; and (this) DB pension was estimated at either £6,270 (with no lump sum) or 
£4,800 (with a £32,000 lump sum). These, together with two state pensions, would clearly 
feel like a significant income reduction to Mr and Mrs B in their particular circumstances, if he did retire soon. And if the DB pension was transferred out completely, I cant see what their 
plan would have been. 
Giving regulated pension transfer advice would have been the obvious point at which to 
comprehensively set this out. But PKFS didnt do this and so the only rationale that really 
stands up for transferring is for potentially reducing Mr Bs annual income tax burden in the 
short-term.
The pension also came with a number of benefits and guarantees commensurate with a DB 
scheme. Mrs Bs own pension arrangements were uncertain and so the death benefits in his 
DB scheme would have been of use to her if Mr B pre-deceased her. It comprised 60% of 
the full pension. There were also index-linking guarantees (with certain limitations). 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were probably made to look like attractive features to Mr B. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
Ive noted that PKFS puts forward the notion now that because Mrs B was the older of the 
two, having the spouse benefits wasnt that important in her case. However, this is a very 
weak challenge in my view; Mrs B was only marginally older and PKFS puts forward no 
analysis or credible reasoning for suggesting the spouses benefits were of little use to her. 
Under the DB scheme the death benefits were guaranteed and they escalated  they were 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a 
personal pension upon Mr Bs passing, particularly if he lived a long life. PKFS should 
therefore not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that PKFS took into account the fact that Mr B could have nominated 
someone as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr B 
had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But PKFS 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the DB scheme. By transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think PKFS ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as the analysis was so poor 
about what hed live on in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of remaining where he was. On this basis, I 
think PKFS should have advised Mr B to continue with his DB scheme and access it as the 
scheme was originally intended.I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that PKFS disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr B to transfer out, and I think Mr B relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against PKFSs advice. I say this because this pension accounted for a reasonable 
proportion of his retirement provision at the time. So, if PKFS had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think PKFS should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for PKFSs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely remain in his DB scheme, rather than transfer to the personal pension if 
he'd been given suitable advice. So, PKFS should use the benefits offered by his DB 
scheme for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He didnt specify, 
so I am satisfied, as weve originally said, that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains 
appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B. 
Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.PKFS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date PKFS receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PKFS to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect PKFS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
I now direct Parker Kelly Financial Services Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation 
amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require Parker Kelly Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the 
compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Parker Kelly Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Parker Kelly Financial Services Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Parker Kelly 
Financial Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman