DRN-3179138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) require them to input 
false information online in order to access their bond.
What happened
After updating their security measures, Scottish Widows asked their customers to 
input a National Insurance (NI) number as part of the process before gaining access 
to their accounts. 
After attempting to access a bond, he held with Mrs H, Mr H complained to Scottish 
Widows as he was unable to log-in.
Scottish Widows acknowledged the type of bond held by Mr H and his wife; did not 
require them to retain NI numbers so their system would not recognise one.
Scottish Widows upheld the complaint and issued a cheque for £175. This was made 
up of £75 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused, and 
£100 to acknowledge the delay in their response to the complaint. 
But Scottish Widows said they had no plans to further update their system, so to 
avoid breaching legislation by capturing genuine NI numbers they did not require, 
and to bypass that section of the login process, they provided a generic code to be 
input in place where an NI number is requested. 
Mr H remained unhappy he was being asked to lie by inputting an NI number that 
wasnt his own, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator agreed Scottish Widows were at fault in asking for the information 
but said theyd acted reasonably when trying to put things right. She also felt the 
compensation offered by Scottish Widows was fair.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators opinion. Mr H said he doesnt accept 
he should have to input information that is not correct as a fudge to suit Scottish 
Widows. As a decision could not be reached the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to ask Scottish Widows to do any more than they already 
have. Ill explain why:
Ultimately, I understand Mr and Mrs H want Scottish Widows to change their system 
so as they are able to input their actual NI number. Or for the need for an NI field to 
be completed at all to be removed.
Scottish Widows have confirmed they dont currently have plans to update their 
system. And it isnt my role to tell them they have to do this.
So, whilst I acknowledge its not the fix Mr and Mrs H want, Im satisfied Scottish 
Widows have acknowledged a fault was initially made, but have acted fairly by 
finding a reasonable solution to their system requiring an NI field to be completed.
Scottish Widows have explained for customers in Mr and Mrs Hs situation, theyve 
provided a generic code in the format of an NI number to allow the relevant section of 
the login process to be bypassed.
Im satisfied, in the circumstances of this case, Mr and Mrs H arent being asked to 
falsify their NI number. I say this because Scottish Widows have confirmed the same 
generic code is provided to all their customers whose policies dont require an NI 
number to be retained. By asking for a generic code to be input, it ensures Scottish 
Widows arent retaining any personal information they dont require.
Further, Scottish Widows have confirmed no record of the generic code is retained, 
and it disappears from their system once the login process is completed.
In addition, Scottish Widows have advised Mr and Mrs H they can obtain a valuation 
of their bond by other means. Should they remain uncomfortable inputting the 
generic code online they are able to call them or write to them by post or email. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs H are frustrated they have to input a generic code 
at all if they want to log in online, but Im satisfied the £75 paid to acknowledge this is 
a fair and reasonable resolution given all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im also persuaded Scottish Widows have provided re-assurances as Id expect them 
to do that inputting the generic code will cause Mr and Mrs H no detriment and have 
suggested alternative options for them to access their bond valuation should they still 
not wish to use it.
In summary, Im satisfied Scottish Widows have acted fairly and reasonably in finding a 
solution, and the compensation paid of £75 plus a further £100 for the delay in them 
responding is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint. So, I dont require them 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022. 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman