DRN-1699553
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss L says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Ls credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave 
an overview of what the policy was for, and offered Miss L the choice to take it out or turn it 
down. The option to buy PPI was selected, the option to turn it down was left blank, and 
Miss L signed the form to confirm her choices. So I think its most likely that Barclays made it 
clear Miss L didnt have to take out PPI, and that she chose to take it  though I can certainly 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss L, so it had to check that the policy was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Miss L was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Miss L wouldve only got limited benefits if she was off work or lost 
her job, and the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and covered her for much longer. So 
the policy couldve been useful for Miss L in case she fell on difficult times. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Miss L chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Miss L in case something 
went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss L could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Barclays doesnt need to refund 
everything Miss L paid for it. But Barclays has already offered to give Miss L back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I understand Barclays has already paid this to Miss L. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2020.Adam Charles
Ombudsman