DRN-3789932
The complaint
Mrs M complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) got her account balance wrong and caused 
distress and inconvenience when pursuing her for a debt. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint NewDay, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think there is a balance of £160.30 on the account that Mrs M will need to pay. I say that 
because NewDay have provided evidence they manually returned the credit on the account 
that was created when a direct debit payment was made by Mrs M despite her attempting to 
cancel it and close her account with NewDay. The credit refund is also shown on Mrs Ms 
bank statement. 
But as Mrs M had cancelled her direct debit directly with her bank, this resulted in £160.30 
being refunded to her because the direct debit was returned as unpaid, along with the 
£161.21 that was manually returned by NewDay.
That refund isnt shown on Mrs Ms bank statement as I think its likely it was a pending 
payment that was due to transfer to NewDay but never did. I think that means that effectively 
Mrs M was refunded twice for the same issue and that NewDay are therefore correct to 
suggest there is still a balance due on the account of £160.30.
I can understand Mrs Ms confusion here. Its only appears to be since her complaint has 
been registered with this service that an explanation of the pending payment has been 
provided. I dont think it would, therefore, have been clear why this hadnt been debited from 
her account and why this meant NewDay were claiming a debt was due to them. I think that 
could have been better explained to Mrs M, and if it was I think its likely Mrs M would have 
paid the outstanding balance. I say that because I can see quickly agreed to do so here 
when the situation was explained to her by our investigator.
I dont think it would therefore be fair for NewDay to charge Mrs M any late payment fees or 
interest in relation to that debt, as I think these have arisen out of the confusion caused by 
their inadequate explanation. 
However, as Ive found there is a debt owing, I dont think NewDay need to pay any 
compensation to Mrs M in respect of the distress or inconvenience any debt collection 
activities have caused. 
Putting things right
NewDay should remove any late payment charges or interest applied to Mrs Ms account in 
relation to this issue as long as Mrs M pays the £160.30 owed within four weeks of this 
decision. Theyll also need to remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ms 
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint. If Mrs M pays the £160.30 owed 
within four weeks of the date of this decision, NewDay Ltd should remove any late payment 
charges, fees, or interest applied to her account along with any adverse reports they may 
have made to Mrs Ms credit file in relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman