DRN-3121271
The complaint
 Mr C complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited made a mistake when it issued a 
cheque to him with the proceeds of the sale of some shares. This delayed him having 
access to the money.  
What happened
On 11 December 2020 Mr C sold some shares through Equinitis share-dealing service. The 
proceeds amounted to just over £8,900. Equiniti posted a cheque to Mr C which he tried to 
encash on 23 December, but his name had been mis-spelt. This meant that when Mr C was 
unable to access his money at that time - so he complained.
Equiniti looked into the issue and established that the system it used to produce cheques 
missed a letter from Mr Cs surname because there were only a limited amount of characters 
which could be inputted. It asked Mr C to return the cheque, and shortly after proceeded to 
make the payment to Mr C via bank transfer. Mr C eventually received the money on 14 
January 2021. 
In order to resolve Mr Cs complaint, Equiniti offered him £35 compensation for the 
inconvenience, and 4% simple interest from 23 December 2020 to 14 January 2021. Mr C 
didnt agree that this put matters right for him, and referred his complaint to this service. He 
also complained about Equinitis decision to withhold tax from the interest payment. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. In short, he concluded that Equinitis 
decision to withhold tax from the interest payment was reasonable  however, he didnt 
agree that its decision to use 4% simple interest was fair. He explained that in cases where a 
consumer had been unfairly deprived of their money, our service usually awarded 8% per 
year simple interest. He didnt agree there was any reason to apply a different rate of interest 
in this case, and wasnt persuaded by Equinitis reasons for awarding 4%. 
Equiniti didnt agree with the investigator. It said that it expected the rate of 8% to be applied 
following the referral of the complaint if it had been established that Equinity had not offered 
any compensation during [its] handling of the complaint. It said that there was no industry 
wide guidelines for businesses to awarding interest at 8% and for that reason Equinity didnt 
agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already explained. 
I agree with the investigators conclusions around the tax being withheld  Im satisfied there 
was nothing wrong with Equiniti doing that and it will be required to do the same when it 
complies with this decision. 
However, in terms of putting things right for Mr C, Im not persuaded by Equinitis arguments. 
Guidance set out by the regulator in DISP 1.3.2A says that Equinity ought to have 
procedures in place to ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the 
Ombudsman are effectively applied in future complaint handling. 
This service has used 8% simple interest in cases where losses are established or a 
consumer has been deprived of their money for many years. The services website explains 
why this rate is used  in particular, because it usually isnt possible to quantify all the ways 
in which a consumer may have been financially affected by being deprived of the money 
they are entitled to. The service also explains that 8% per year simple is the rate which 
courts award.
So this approach isnt novel and Im satisfied that Equiniti is well aware of our approach to 
awarding interest in this way, and ought to have known that in Mr Cs case this service would 
take the same approach. 
I say this because I see no specific reason to apply a different rate in this particular case, for 
the period Mr C was unable to access this money as a result of Equinitis mistake. Equiniti 
has not explained why it used 4%, other than saying there isnt an industry wide guideline. 
And whilst I accept there isnt an industry wide guideline, as Ive mentioned above, Equinity 
ought to have been taking into account how this service would put matters right for Mr C. 
Given Mr Cs case, Im satisfied Equiniti ought to have concluded that Mr C was entitled to 
8% per year simple interest for the period he was deprived of his money by its mistake. 
Ultimately, Mr C was deprived of money which ought simply to have been paid to him. And it 
was a significant sum of money, which Mr C reasonably expected to be able to encash at his 
leisure. Equiniti appears to suggest that because it made an offer to settle Mr Cs complaint 
this service shouldnt award the additional rate of interest. Im not persuaded by this 
argument. In my view, awarding Mr C half the rate this service usually awards, and which 
Equinity ought to have been aware this service usually awards, meant that Mr C wasnt 
treated fairly. 
For all these reasons, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Putting things right
Equiniti Financial Services Limited must pay Mr C interest at 8% per year simple on the sum 
which he was due to encash, between the 23 December 2020 and the 14 January 20211 
when he eventually received the money. 
I understand Equiniti may have already paid Mr C some interest for that period  if thats the 
case, itll need to pay Mr C the balance in order to ensure that he is paid 8% per year simple 
for that period.
If it hasnt already, Equiniti must also pay Mr C the £35 it offered him for the trouble and 
upset its mistake caused. 
My final decision
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Equiniti Financial Services Limited to take off tax from this interest. Equiniti 
Financial Services Limited must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Equiniti Financial Services Limited must pay 
the compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr C has accepted 
this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman