DRN-4040666
The complaint
Mr A has appointed a law firm to represent him in this complaint. For ease of reading, Ive 
referred to the representatives comments as being Mr As.
Mr A complains that an Appointed Representative of The On-Line Partnership Limited 
(TOLP) wrongly advised him in June 2018 to transfer the value of his benefits built up in his 
former employers defined contribution workplace pension scheme (WPS) to an existing 
Personal Pension Plan (PPP) provided by Prudential. He believes that the transfer was 
unsuitable because the PPP is likely to provide a lower level of retirement income than 
wouldve been provided by his former employers WPS.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr A and TOLP. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mr A was a member of his former employers WPS between January 2009 and May 2018. 
As at 14 June 2018, his benefits in the WPS were valued at £111,249.88. The money was 
invested equally between the Balanced Fund (50%) and the Schroders Diversified Growth 
Fund (50%). The WPS didnt support adviser charging nor would it facilitate Flexi-Access 
Drawdown (FAD) when Mr A accessed benefits. 
On 28 June 2018, TOLP issued its suitability report to Mr A recommending that he transfer 
the value of his benefits in the WPS to an existing PPP provided by Prudential. Mr As 
circumstances and objectives were recorded in June 2018 as follows:
He was aged 54, in good health and married with three children, all of whom were 
financially independent;
He had recently been made redundant by the long-term former employer linked to his 
WPS after it had decided to close a factory. His wife was employed as a part-time 
cleaner;
As part of his redundancy package he received a large payment of about £73,000, 
the majority of which was invested in his WPS plan. He retained £30,000 tax-free and 
intended to use this as an income to meet living costs in the short-term while he 
took a break from work;
His non-pension assets comprised his residential home valued at about £200,000;
His debts comprised a part repayment and part interest-only mortgage of about 
£90,000 on his residential home which was due to be repaid in 2029. He didnt have 
any other debts;
He had an existing PPP provided by Prudential (the subject of this complaint) which 
had been set up by TOLP in 2017 to specifically receive a transfer value of 
£220,842.23 in connection with Mr As preserved benefits in the same former 
employers defined benefits pension scheme (the advice about which this Service 
has previously considered and upheld under a separate complaint reference); and
He had a Balanced risk profile  this was based on a risk profile assessment carried 
out by TOLP in January 2017.
TOLP recorded Mr As objectives in June 2018, summarised as follows:
Following his redundancy in May 2018, he wanted to take a break from work for up to 
a year during which he would use £30,000 of his redundancy payment as a source of 
income to meet living costs. Then, after a year, he wanted to start part-time work 
and possibly supplement that income by drawing pension benefits flexibly;
Repaying his mortgage was a major priority;
He wanted all his pensions to be held together under a single plan; and 
He wanted to receive ongoing financial advice provided by TOLP.
To achieve these objectives, TOLP recommended that Mr A transfer the value of his benefits 
in the WPS to his existing PPP provided by Prudential. It recommended that the value of his 
PPP be invested in the PruFund Growth fund to align with his Balanced risk profile. The 
costs associated with TOLPs recommendation were stated as follows:
Initial charge
1.5% (or £1,668) initial adviser charge, payable to TOLP based on the transfer value
Ongoing annual charges based on the PPP fund value
0.50% ongoing adviser charge, payable to TOLP 
0.79% fund charge and additional expenses, payable to Prudential
0.35% annual service charge for PPP, payable to Prudential
Mr A accepted the recommendation following which the transfer was completed.
This complaint
Mr A complained to TOPL that it wrongly advised him in June 2018 to transfer the value of 
his benefits built up in his former employers WPS to his existing PPP provided by 
Prudential. He didnt think the transfer was in his bests interests and had caused him to 
suffer a financial loss.
TOPL didnt uphold this complaint. It said the transfer to the PPP was suitable and met                 
Mr As needs because it enabled him to consolidate his pension arrangements into a single 
plan, provided a wider selection of investment options through Prudential, provided the 
option to withdraw tax-free cash only, offered FAD and facilitated adviser charging, none of 
which wouldve been available had he maintained benefits in the WPS. In its view, remaining 
in the WPS wouldnt have met Mr As needs and so  to achieve his objectives  he was 
compelled to transfer to a product, such as the PPP it recommended, to enable him to 
achieve his objectives.
Our investigator had a different view and recommended that this complaint be upheld on the 
basis that there wasnt any credible reason for Mr A to transfer at that time. She acknowledged that Mr A was likely attracted to the ability to access benefits flexibly but, 
given that he didnt require immediate flexible benefits, didnt think he needed to transfer at 
that time and so shouldve been advised to defer any decision to transfer. In the 
investigators view, given the lower charges, Mr A shouldve been advised to maintain 
benefits in his WPS until such time as he required immediate access at which point a 
transfer could be properly considered.
To put things right, the investigator recommended that TOPL pay any compensation due to 
Mr A on the basis that he maintained benefits in his WPS. She stated that if the previous 
provider of the WPS was unable to provide a notional fund value, then compensation should 
be on the basis that Mr A wouldve invested broadly in line with: 50% in the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% based on the average rate from fixed rate 
bonds. The investigator also recommended that TOLP refund to Mr A any adviser fees he 
paid in connection with the recommendation plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date 
the fees were paid to the date of settlement.
Mr A didnt express any view on whether he accepted our investigators opinion and 
recommended remedy. TOLP submitted additional comments. In summary, it remained 
satisfied that its advice in June 2018 was suitable and enabled Mr A to achieve his recorded 
objectives. It noted that Mr A had flexibly accessed his PPP in April 2019 to help repay the 
interest-only part of his mortgage and to provide flexible income through FAD  and that he 
wouldnt have been able to achieve these outcomes had he maintained benefits in the WPS 
since it didnt allow members to access benefits flexibly.
Our investigator considered the additional comments received from TOLP but wasnt 
persuaded to change her opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has 
been referred to me, an ombudsman, to review and decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Mr A and TOLP. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single 
point raised by Mr A or TOLP. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence 
afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. Ive explained why below.
The regulators suitability rules and guidance 
TOLP was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the time it 
advised Mr A. So when it advised him on his retirement planning it was required to adhere to 
the suitability rules and guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Primarily, TOLP was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr A. The suitability 
rules and guidance that applied when TOLP provided its recommendation to Mr A were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the FCAs rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice thats suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment 
objective and risk profile. In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the 
requirements in COBS 9, TOLP needed to gather necessary information for it to be confident 
its advice met Mr As objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, TOLP had to 
undertake a fact find process in order to achieve this.
In addition to the requirements set out in COBS 9, the then regulator, the Financial Services 
Authority, issued a report in December 2008 titled Quality of advice on pension switching 
which I think was relevant when TOLP advised Mr A in June 2018. The report summarised 
the findings of the regulators thematic review on the quality of advice given to individuals 
since pensions A-day on 6 April 2006 to switch the value of their pensions into a PPP. The 
regulator stated: 
We assessed advice as unsuitable when the outcome was the customer switching 
into one of the following: 
 A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence that this option was 
needed).
 A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have met the customers needs. 
 A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different pension schemes, but 
where the extra cost was not explained or justified to the customer.
 A new pension and the customer had lost benefits from their ceding pension (for 
example, guaranteed annuity rates) without these being explained or justified. 
 A pension that did not match the customers attitude to risk and personal 
circumstances. 
 A pension where there was the need for ongoing advice, but this had not been 
explained, or offered, or put in place.
So, the regulator clearly outlined what should be considered and stated cost was a factor as
well as suitable other reasons for the transfer.
Was TOLPs advice suitable?
WPSs are generally less expensive than personal arrangements such as PPPs since the 
sponsoring employer typically covers some or all of the costs and/or is able to negotiate 
lower investment costs with providers and fund managers. In addition, most WPSs provide 
access to a wide range of funds that meet most individuals risk profiles and investment 
objectives. So, in my view, there needs to be a compelling reason why an individual would 
transfer out of a WPS.TOLPs recommendation to transfer from the WPS to the PPP entailed the following costs:
1.5% initial adviser charge, payable to TOLP based on the transfer value
0.50% pa ongoing adviser charge, payable to TOLP 
0.79% pa fund charge and additional expenses, payable to Prudential
0.35% pa annual service charge for PPP, payable to Prudential
The suitability report stated that the PPP had a clear and competitive charging structure 
and that the ongoing cost, including advice, would be 1.64% pa of the fund value. However, 
neither the charging structure of the WPS nor the fact that it was less expensive than the 
recommended PPP were explicitly stated in the suitability report. The only indication 
provided to Mr A that the WPS had lower costs was in the following snapshot of the 
projected fund values at age 65 based on three different assumed growth rates: 
It was noted that the projections for the Existing Scheme or WPS had been system 
generated using a 0% Product AMC, 0.56% Fund AMC. Mr As money in the WPS was 
invested equally between two funds which, according to the WPS investment guide dated 
November 2017, had the following AMC:
Balanced Fund 0.361%
Schroders Diversified Growth Fund 0.75%
I calculate the blended AMC to be 0.56%. So Im satisfied that the correct AMC was used in 
the comparison. 
These projections showed that, based on the same assumed growth rates, the WPS would 
provide a higher fund value than the recommended PPP at age 65 due to lower charges  
and that Mr A would likely be worse off by transferring. But it required Mr A, who was an 
inexperienced investor, to read and understand that the difference in projected fund values 
was due to the fact that the WPS had lower charges that the PPP.
Notwithstanding this point, the projections were to age 65 despite the fact it was recorded   
Mr A intended to access benefits before then, probably around age 55. This is relevant 
because the projected growth in the short term under the PPP was unlikely to offset the 
impact of the higher charges and cost of the initial advice itself, further undermining the case 
for a transfer at that time.
I accept that increased charges dont automatically make the advice to transfer unsuitable. 
But the regulator stated there needs to be a good reason for the switch to justify these. And 
in Mr As case, Im not persuaded there was a compelling reason why it was suitable for him 
to transfer away from the WPS at that time given he wasnt seeking to immediately access 
benefits. I say this because I think the decision to transfer shouldve been deferred until 
there was more clarity about Mr As plans. It was recorded that following his redundancy in 
May 2018, he wanted to take a break from work for up to a year during which he would use 
£30,000 of his redundancy payment as a source of income to meet living costs. Then, after 
a year, he would aim to work part-time and possibly supplement that income by drawing 
pension benefits flexibly. 
So I think its fair to say that there was uncertainty regarding how long the £30,000 might last 
and his future plans about part-time employment, how much he might earn from that and 
when and how much money hed need to draw from his pension.
Therefore, I dont believe flexibility was a good enough reason to recommend a transfer at 
that time. I think any decision about transferring shouldve been delayed until there was 
clarity about his circumstances and then  at that point  obtain financial advice when his 
needs could be determined with greater accuracy. In the meantime, I think he shouldve 
maintained benefits in the WPS at a lower cost than the alternative PPP recommended by 
TOLP. Its my view that TOLPs recommendation led to Mr A incurring additional costs 
without good reason. I consider that it was unlikely investment performance could be 
improved to a sufficient extent in the PPP to outweigh the initial advice charge and higher 
ongoing charges.
TOLP has stated that Mr A flexibly accessed his PPP in April 2019 to help repay the interest-
only part of his mortgage and to provide flexible income through FAD. I think it made this 
point to support its position that its advice in June 2018 was suitable. But I think this actually 
undermines its position. Firstly, it shows that it was inappropriate for TOLP to run the 
projected fund values to age 65 when it was clear he would likely access benefits sooner as 
was proved to be the case. And the fact that Mr A didnt access benefits until April 2019 
supports my view that there wasnt any compelling reason to recommend a transfer in                
June 2018 since it was clear that he didnt require immediate access at that time.
I want to address TOLPs consideration of stakeholder pensions. It had a regulatory 
requirement to consider stakeholder pensions as a possible destination to receive the 
transfer since the charges on these plans are capped. The adviser stated in the suitability 
report, I have not recommended a stakeholder pension as they offer less flexibility in terms 
of fund choice and would not offer the required flexibility in terms of drawdown options. Nor 
would they offer the robust investment processes you were looking for.
I have concerns about the reasons why TOLP dismissed a stakeholder pension as a viable 
option for Mr A. Im not sure what was meant by robust investment processes and why                   
Mr A was apparently seeking this. In my view, the reference to stakeholder pensions not 
offering flexibility in terms of fund choice and FAD is misleading. Stakeholder plans typically 
offer a wide range of funds that are suitable for most individuals risk profiles and objectives. 
The evidence shows that Mr A was an inexperienced investor whose needs likely wouldve 
been met by the sort of funds typically available under lower-cost stakeholder pensions. In 
addition, I understand that some stakeholder products offer FAD. So I think its likely a 
stakeholder pension wouldve met Mr As needs. Im not convinced that TOLP properly 
considered stakeholder pensions in its analysis. But in any event, for the reasons explained 
above, I dont think Mr A needed to transfer at that time.
The adviser noted in the suitability report that he had discussed with Mr A the option of 
leaving any decision about a possible transfer until he was aged 55. However, it was stated 
that in June 2018 Mr A wanted to keep all of his pension benefits under one plan for 
simplicity and to transfer to his existing PPP. And so he didnt want to consider the option of 
maintaining benefits in the WPS. I dont think consolidation was a justifiable reason to incur 
additional costs at that time. In any event, the reason why Mr A had that existing PPP was 
because TOLP had advised him to start it in 2017 specifically to receive a transfer value of £220,842.23 in connection with his preserved benefits in the same former employers 
defined benefits pension scheme  the suitability of that advice was later assessed by this 
Service and found to be unsuitable, meaning that Mr A shouldnt have been sold the PPP in 
2017.
Conclusion
Im not persuaded that TOLP demonstrated why it was suitable advice in June 2018 for Mr A 
to transfer away from the WPS. The transfer led to additional costs without good reason. I 
think what was important at that stage, bearing in mind Mr A was then aged 54, was to seek 
 as much as possible  to preserve and maximise the returns (at the lowest cost) from his 
existing benefits in the WPS until such time as he required immediate access when his 
needs could be determined with greater accuracy. I dont think TOLP acted in Mr As best 
interests.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
In my opinion, properly advised, Mr A wouldve maintained benefits in his former employers 
WPS. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given his circumstances when he invested. What Ive set out below is in line with the remedy 
recommended by our investigator.
To compensate Mr A fairly, TOLP must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained in his former employers WPS. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, TOLP should pay into Mr A's PPP, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. TOLP's payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. TOLP shouldn't pay the compensation 
into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If TOLP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr As PPP, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the PPP, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is to  
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isn't a payment of tax to HMRC, so          
Mr A won't be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Ive decided that Mr A is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if 
Mr A wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Repay the advisers fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the
fees were paid to the date of this final decision. If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the notional 
value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TOLP consider that it's required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much it's 
taken off. TOLP should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From
("start
date")To ("end
date")Additional
interest
Prudential 
PPPStill exists
and liquidNotional value
from previous
WPS
(if notional 
value is not 
available then 
for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bonds)Date of
transfer-in to 
Prudential 
PPPDate of this
final
decision8% per annum
simple from date
of this final 
decision if
TOLP doesnt 
settle
within 28 days of
receipt of Mr As
acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr As investment had it remained in his former employers WPS until the
end date. TOLP should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the funds that were transferred from the WPS to the PPP should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there were a large number of 
regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if TOLP total all those payments 
and deduct that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, TOLP will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr As investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation ofcompensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr A into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr A 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr A couldve obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint and require The On-Line Partnership Limited to pay him 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman