DRN-3601631
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
Everyday Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have 
been provided to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr M with a loan for £2,500.00 in October 2014. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £111.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. In its view all of this information showed Mr M
could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, 
Mr M has said he should never have been provided with this guarantor loan because of his 
existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Everyday Loans have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that Everyday Loans carried out a credit check on Mr M. So I dont think that this 
was a case of Everyday Loans simply accepting a declaration of income and expenditure as 
has been suggested. Everyday Loans credit search does show that Mr M had some existing 
debts. But these were relatively well managed and werent excessive either.
Equally, as this was Mr Ms first loan with Everyday Loans, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on what it had been provided with. There wasnt anything obvious 
in the information gathered during this application which leads me to think that further checks 
would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Everyday Loans obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Everyday Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr M appears to be saying it should have
 such as obtaining bank statements  it may have reached a different answer. But the key 
here is that Everyday Loans was providing Mr M with a loan for a relatively small sum with 
relatively low monthly payments too. And its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong.
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies in what had been 
gathered, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into 
the level of checks Mr M is suggesting. As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans 
did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable.
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with this loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman