DRN-3284388
The complaint
Mr M complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive Investor) provided a 
poor response to his request to transfer an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to his 
Interactive Investor SIPP. Mr M complains that Interactive Investor caused delays which 
meant that he lost his guaranteed cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) and ended up with 
a CETV which was almost £25,000 less.
What happened
Mr M had a defined benefit pension scheme and on 26 September 2019 he obtained the 
CETV of his deferred benefits held in that scheme (CETV1). Which was £196,752.02, and 
the value was guaranteed until 26 December 2019.
Mr M contacted an independent financial advisor (IFA) on 11 October 2019 for advice on the 
suitability of a transfer. After receiving advice from the IFA on 21 November 2019, Mr M 
decided to go ahead with the transfer to his existing Interactive Investor SIPP.
Mr M first contacted Interactive Investor by phone on 10 December 2019 to discuss a 
transfer. On 18 December 2019 Mr Ms IFA sent the transfer forms to Interactive Investor, 
which were received by Interactive Investor on 19 December 2019. The transfer request was 
not received by the ceding schemes administrators by the guarantee deadline of 
26 December 2019.
Mr M was notified by his OPS administrator that CETV1 was not guaranteed after 
26 December. Mr M asked for an updated CETV, but the scheme administrators responded 
to explain that they were unable to provide a new guaranteed CETV whilst there was an 
ongoing transfer request in place. The transfer pack Mr M was sent on 26 September 2019 
was valid for four months, although CETV1 was only guaranteed for the first three. If the 
application was received in the fourth month it would still be processed unless the CETV at 
that time was more than 10% lower than CETV1.
Interactive Investor contacted Mr M by secure message on 3 January 2020 (eight working 
days after the receipt of the transfer forms) to advise that Mr Ms signature was missing from 
the IFA declaration form. Mr M responded by calling Interactive Investor on 8 January to ask 
that he be sent a copy of the form that needed to be signed. Mr M explains that he received 
that form in the post on 10 January 2020 and signed and sent it back on 11 January 2020. 
Interactive Investor received it on 13 January 2020.
On 15 January 2020 Interactive Investor uploaded a right to withdraw form to enable Mr M to 
opt to waive the 30-day cooling off period Interactive Investor allowed for transfers. This was 
signed and received back by Interactive Investor on 21 January 2020. And submitted to the 
ceding scheme administrator on 28 January 2020. Which missed the four month deadline of 
26 January 2020 by two days.
Mr Ms OPS administrator had to provide Mr M with a new CETV. The new CETV (CETV2) 
had reduced to £171,815.68. 
On 17 February 2020 Interactive Investor received a second set of transfer forms from 
Mr Ms IFA to transfer the new CETV into his SIPP. This transfer proceeded and by 
18 March 2020 the CETV from Mr Ms defined benefit pension was transferred to his 
Interactive Investor SIPP.
Mr M complained to Interactive Investor about the delays in processing his pension transfer. 
Interactive Investor didnt agree that it was responsible for the fact that the guarantee period 
for CETV1 or the later deadline for completing the transfer were missed. It identified service 
failings in terms of information it provided Mr M on the phone and offered £100 in 
compensation for that.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. An investigator looked into what had happened 
and thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He explained what he thought 
Interactive Investor should do to put things right for Mr M. As neither Interactive Investor nor 
Mr M agreed this case has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I asked for some further information to be provided from Mr Ms ceding scheme to clear the 
confusion over the impact on the CETV by missing the three month deadline for CETV1. 
Following receipt of that additional information I issued a provisional decision upholding 
Mr Ms complaint but for different reasons to our investigator. 
In my provisional decision I said
In considering how I think this case should be fairly resolved Ive considered all of the points 
that Mr M has raised. In my decision I will only refer to those things that Ive decided have a 
bearing on the outcome so may not comment on every point made. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy. It is merely a reflection of our role as an informal dispute resolution service.
I think that the main issue in this case is the fact that Mr M was unable to secure the first 
CETV (CETV1) that he was quoted in September 2019. And specifically any failings on the 
part of Interactive Investor that caused that transfer value to be missed.
Mr M provided us with a copy of the transfer pack and CETV1 from his OPS administrator. It 
explains that CETV1 was issued on 26 September 2019 and was only guaranteed for three 
months to 26 December. And the OPS administrators have confirmed this to us and 
provided emails that they sent to Mr M explaining this to him.
In considering appropriate timescales for processing transfer requests I need to consider the 
different elements and am only concerned in this case with any delays that may have been 
caused by Interactive Investor. I need to also be mindful of Interactive Investors processes 
and whether they were fairly and reasonably applied to Mr Ms transfer.
The completed transfer forms that were posted by Mr Ms IFA on 18 December 2019 werent 
received by Interactive Investor until 19 December 2019 according to the date stamped copy 
that Interactive Investor have provided us. Which gave Interactive Investor only three 
working days over the Christmas period to process the application to the OPS administrators 
in order to meet the deadline. Which I dont think was a reasonable expectation. At the very 
least the forms would need to be checked prior to being forwarded to the ceding scheme. 
Which I cant reasonably say could have been done in the time left. Put simply, Mr M didnt 
give Interactive Investor enough time to make the 26 December 2019 deadline. So I cant 
hold Interactive Investor responsible for the fact that CETV1 was missed.
I think that it would have been Interactive Investors responsibility to continue to process the 
transfer application unless Mr M instructed it to stop. And Interactive Investors safeguards also provided Mr M with a 30 day right to cancel his pension transfer contract unless he 
waived it. So I would expect Interactive Investor to proceed in a timely fashion. 
Interactive Investor notified Mr M, on 3 January 2020, that his signature was missing from 
one of the forms that were received on 19 December. It isnt Interactive Investors fault that 
the form, confirming financial advice had been received, wasnt fully completed when it was 
sent. But Interactive Investor are responsible for the fact that it took eight working days to 
identify and inform Mr M of that fact. And Interactive Investor explained to Mr M in a phone 
call on 2 January 2020 that the company that provided it with an administrative service had 
returned the forms to it in error. Which I think, more likely than not, led to this being delayed. 
I would have thought that five working days would have been achieved but for these 
mistakes. Meaning that Interactive Investor are responsible for three days being lost at that 
stage of the process.
Rather than sending the form back to be signed, with an explanation of what was missing, 
Interactive Investor sent Mr M a secure message informing him of the error. And asking him 
whether he wanted Interactive Investor to proceed with sending the form in order to continue 
with the transfer. Given that Mr M had phoned Interactive Investor twice on 2 January to 
chase the progress of his transfer, Im not sure why Interactive Investor would message him 
rather than send him the form. This choice built in further delay, as Mr M had to phone 
Interactive Investor back and ask them to send him the form to sign. On balance, I dont 
think this was a good service given the time constraints that Interactive Investor knew 
existed for this transfer.
I think that Interactive Investor should have sent Mr M the form that needed to be signed 
meaning hed likely have had it by 7 January 2020 rather than 10 January when Mr M did 
receive it. Causing a further delay of three days at this point.
On receiving the returned form on 13 January 2020, Interactive Investor uploaded the right 
to withdraw form to Mr Ms account and emailed Mr M to inform him of this within two 
working days. Interactive Investor explain that it allows customers a 30-day cancellation 
period for transfers of this type. So, in order to proceed before that period, Mr M needed to 
sign and return this form waiving that period. This requirement was set out in one of the 
steps that Interactive Investor explained in its email to Mr M on 18 December 2019. So I 
think Mr M should have been expecting it.
The signed waiver of the 30-day cancellation period was received by Interactive Investor on 
21 January 2020. Interactive Investor confirm that it sent the transfer forms, via its 
administration contractor, on 28 January 2020. This was five working days after receipt of 
the waiver of the cancellation period. Given how close to the deadline of 26 January this 
was, I think this reflects a lack of urgency on Interactive Investors part. A processing time of 
5 working days, in this context was neglectful. But for the earlier delays, I think that this 
stage would have been reached 5 working days earlier though. Meaning that Interactive 
Investor should have been sending the transfer documentation to the ceding scheme on 21 
January 2020 rather than 28 January.2020. So I think that the forms would have been 
received by the DB scheme administrator by the end of that working week  24 January 
2020  and wouldve met the deadline for a transfer to potentially go ahead at that time.
On receipt of that application by 24 January 2020 the OPS administrators would have had to 
calculate the CETV for that date (CETV3). Providing it wasnt more than 10% lower than 
CETV1, the transfer would have gone ahead. Given the OPS administrator timescales, its 
reasonable to assume that it would have taken a further 14 days to receive the transfer. So, 
in this circumstance, Mr M ought to have had CETV3 to invest by 7 February 2020. Instead, Mr M was given CETV2 on 5 February 2020. His signed transfer application pack 
was received by Interactive Investor on 17 February 2020. The process was completed, and 
the funds received by Mr Ms SIPP on 18 March 2020. This application process was delayed 
by the OPS having to return the application a couple of times for omissions. Yet I note that it 
still highlights the achievable timeframe for a transfer to occur following receipt of the 
application by Interactive Investor.
Mr M has also complained about the way in which he now has to pay his IFA fees. At the 
point of transferring he most likely had the option of paying his IFA as a deduction from his 
transfer value, or directly to his IFA. Mr M has explained that he hadnt decided what he 
wanted to do at the point of applying for the transfer.
In his complaint Mr M explained that hed asked Interactive Investor to contact him to find out 
how he wanted to pay his IFA fees. Hes said this happened in a call on 23 December 2019 
and another on 14 February 2020. I havent been able to listen to these calls though. And if 
Mr M was told that Interactive Investor would call him back to find out what he wanted to do, 
but then didnt, that was a poor service. But in terms of the impact of that, I need to consider 
everything as a whole. And Id expect to see that Mr M had done what he could to mitigate 
the impact of that. The second transfer application wasnt submitted until 17 February 2020. 
And the transfer didnt complete until 18 March 2020. The fact that Interactive Investor didnt 
contact Mr M, didnt prevent Mr M from telling Interactive Investor to take the fees from his 
transfer value prior to the transfer date, if thats what he wanted. So I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to hold Interactive Investor responsible for what happened regarding the IFA 
fees.
Response to my provisional decision
Interactive investor hasnt responded with any comments following my provisional decision.
Mr M responded to re-iterate his views as follows:
Interactive Investors email of 17 December 2019 only advised how long it takes 
them to complete a pension transfer, not how long in advance of the OPS deadline 
that it needed to receive the application.
Mr M states that his OPS have advised that CETV3 would have been £178,030 on 
24 January 2020, so within 10% of CETV1. And Mr M states that the benchmark that 
I proposed to estimate the loss of investment returns doesnt reflect his experience or 
significant knowledge of financial markets. So instead thinks investment returns of 
8% would be fairer.
Mr M explains that he was told in a phone call with Interactive Investor on 
14 February 2020, when he hadnt decided how to pay his IFA fees, that once 
everything was finalised that decision could be made.
Mr M doesnt think that compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes suffered is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having revisited all of the evidence in this case, Ive seen nothing to change my mind from 
my provisional decision.
For the same reasons that I outlined to both parties previously, I dont think its fair to hold 
Interactive Investor responsible for the fact that the deadline for CETV1 was missed. CETV1 was guaranteed for three months, yet Interactive Investor received the application forms with 
only three working days left of that period. And it would transpire that Mr Ms signature was 
missing from a vital form which meant the application wasnt actually ready when received 
anyway.
Mr M has highlighted that Interactive Investors email on 18 December outlined the steps for 
the transfer. It explained that transferring a defined benefit pension would typically take four 
to six weeks upon receipt of his documents. And whilst it doesnt provide a deadline for 
receiving applications, it does explain the steps. The first step explains that on receiving the 
discharge paperwork Interactive Investor would need to complete sections relating to the 
SIPP. A right to withdraw form would then be uploaded for Mr M to complete. And the 
following stage was the transfer request being forwarded to the OPS when all required 
documents were received. In the absence of an indication from Interactive Investor about 
how quickly that could all be achieved, I have to decide what was reasonable. And I dont 
think that three working days would have been reasonable, even if one of the forms hadnt 
been missing a signature. I appreciate that Mr M doesnt agree, but I cant fairly say that 
missing the guarantee deadline was Interactive Investors fault.
There has been some confusion, in resolving this complaint, about whether or not the 
guarantee for CETV1 had been extended for a further month. Given that Ive concluded 
Interactive Investor should have been able to meet that deadline, the continued guarantee of 
CETV1 over that extra month would be significant. But the OPS have confirmed to us that 
wasnt the case. And have shown us correspondence it had with Mr M explaining that 
CETV1 was no longer guaranteed after the deadline was missed.
What this means is that Mr M was always going to be facing a re-calculated CETV (CETV3) 
by getting his application forms to Interactive Investor when he did. But it should have been 
received in the one month window after the guarantee period that his transfer pack of 
September 2019 allowed. It means that Mr M may have had his transfer sooner and been 
spared the need to complete a second transfer application. Whether he suffered a financial 
loss will depend on the difference between CETV 2 and CETV3. The ceding OPS have 
confirmed that it can calculate CETV3 for the purposes of a loss calculation should Mr M 
accept this decision.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about the payment of his SIPP fees. I have to consider 
what I think most likely happened, and what impact it would have made. Mr Ms reference to 
the call on 14 February does seem to have caused him to believe he could decide whether 
to pay his fees from his SIPP at a later time. But it isnt clear why Mr M was still undecided 
about this by 14 February. Had things gone ahead as I think that they should have, then the 
transfer would have been concluded prior to 14 February, so any confusion from that call 
wouldnt have come about. Interactive Investor werent responsible for determining how 
Mr M pay his financial adviser costs. And the transfer process allowed sufficient time for 
Mr M to decide what he wanted to do and instruct that.
For the reasons that Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Interactive Investor 
have caused delays which likely impacted the CETV that Mr M received. And caused 
distress and inconvenience for Mr M in having the transfer process dragged out. The 
following is a fair way for Interactive Investor to put Mr M as close as possible into the 
position he may have been but for Interactive Investors delays. 
Putting things right
Interactive Investor should contact the OPS administrators and request the CETV that Mr M 
would have been entitled to on 24 January 2020, when I think the application should have been with them (CETV3). If the OPS charge for this, then Interactive Investor should meet 
that cost.
If CETV3 is more than 10% lower than CETV1, the transfer wouldnt have gone ahead. And 
Mr M would have been in the same position of having to obtain a new guaranteed CETV. So 
will have suffered no financial loss.
If CETV3 is less than 10% lower than CETV1, then the transfer would have gone ahead at 
that time without the need for a new transfer pack and application process. Mr M would have 
received CETV3 in his SIPP on 7 February 2020, rather than CETV2 on 18 March 2020.
I understand that Mr M has explained that he wouldnt have invested his fund in a way that 
exposed it to the losses that happened in the market around that time due to covid19. And 
whilst I mean no disrespect to Mr M and his ability to read financial markets, Im unable to 
know now what Mr M may have done on 7 February 2020. What does seem clear is that 
Mr M would most likely have made different investment choices if hed had his transfer value 
to invest earlier. I dont think it would be fair to assume that 8% simple interest is a fair 
substitute for using an actual benchmark where notional investment choices are made. I 
understand that the benchmark will not exactly replicate the choices that Mr M may have 
made. But I cant know what those exact choices would have been. So I think that the fairest 
way to allow for the effect of any investment returns by having the money earlier are 
calculated in the manner I set out below.
Interactive Investor should calculate Mr Ms loss as follows:
Calculate the investment growth on CETV3 using the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index between the dates of 7 February 2020 to 18 March 2020. 
This will give the notional fund value at 18 March 2020.
Loss at 18 March 2020 = notional fund value at 18 March 2020  Actual transfer 
value (£171,815.68)
If the above calculation shows a loss, then investment returns also need to be 
calculated on that loss. Mr Ms investments were held and managed in his SIPP. 
Because the actual performance of Mr Ms SIPP is known for that period, the overall 
performance of Mr Ms SIPP should be calculated from 18 March 2020 until the date 
of my final decision, discounting any contributions or withdrawals, to determine his 
actual percentage investment return. This achieved return rate should then be 
applied to the Loss at 18 March 2020 to determine the lost investment returns.
If the calculation shows no loss at 18 March 2020 then no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, then the compensation payable is the Loss at 18 March 2020 plus 
the investment returns on it.
8% simple interest per year should be added to this compensation figure from the 
date of my final decision to settlement (if not settled within 60 days of the business 
receiving Mr Ms acceptance of the final decision).
If there is a loss, Interactive Investor should pay into Mr M's pension plan, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and investment returns. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Interactive Investor 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Interactive Investor are unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
I recommend that Mr M is awarded an additional £200 compensation on top of the 
£100 Interactive Investor have paid for the trouble and upset that its service has 
caused. So £300 in total. Mr M has shown us that he chased things up numerous 
times, and he was given incorrect information on numerous occasions. I understand 
that Mr M thinks this should be higher, but he is not yet of an age where he can 
access his pension benefits. So the redress for loss will be in place before his 
choices about accessing his pension need to be made. Im satisfied that this figure 
reflects the level of inconvenience he has so far been caused.
Interactive Investor should provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
Why is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index suitable?
Mr M wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Interactive Investor Services Limited to compensate 
Mr M in the manner that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman