DRN-3157019
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her bank accounts and wont give her a 
reason why. Shes also unhappy with the service she received from Barclays
What happened
Mrs G held a number of accounts with Barclays, including a current account, a basic bank 
account, savings, ISAs. Some of these were held jointly with her husband.
In April 2020 Barclays took the decision to close Mrs Gs accounts. They wrote to her telling 
her this, and that the accounts would close in June 2020. Until then she could continue to 
use the accounts normally. When the deadline passed the accounts with credit balances 
were closed, and those in debit were passed to the collections team.
However, Mrs G says she didnt receive the letter, and was shocked to discover her 
accounts were closed. She had spoken to the bank several times since the letter had been 
issued and nobody had told her the accounts were about to be closed. She tried to speak to 
Barclays to resolve on the situation over the next few days but didnt feel like Barclays 
helped her. Barclays wouldnt explain why they had made the decision to close the account. 
Mrs G also lost access to her online banking. Barclays advised her to download the Barclays 
app, but this didnt resolve the situation. The money remaining in the accounts was 
eventually paid in to Mrs Gs business account. A payment in to one account of £167 was 
made after it closed, but Barclays allowed Mrs G to withdraw this when it would usually be 
returned to the sender.
Unhappy with everything that had happened Mrs G complained. Barclays responded that 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by closing the account. They said the terms of 
Mrs Gs account allowed them to close her account so long as they gave the required notice, 
and they didnt have to provide any reason. But they accepted some of the customer service 
given to Mrs G hadnt been appropriate, and they apologised.
Mrs G then referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked in to what 
happened. They said Barclays had given Mrs G the required notice before they closed the 
accounts, and they were entitled to under the terms of the account. If Mrs G hadnt received 
the letter saying the accounts were to be closed, this couldnt be blamed on Barclays. 
The investigator didnt think it unusual that Mrs G wasnt told her account was about to close 
when she spoke to staff in April and May 2020. They did accept Mrs G was distressed by the 
closure of her accounts, but thought Barclays had arranged the transfer of the remaining 
funds as quickly as possible. They also said that they could understand why some of the 
comments from Barclays staff had been upsetting and confusing. But overall, they didnt feel 
Barclays needed to do anything further.
Mrs G disagreed. She said that the closure of the accounts during the pandemic period was 
bad banking practice, and had shown her no forbearance or duty of care. She said Barclays 
had been fined by the Financial Conduct Authority for this. She said that she held a basic 
bank account, which under law every person should be entitled to. She also felt ISAs fell in 
to this category. She also queried why she could no longer access her Barclays app even 
though she still had accounts open. When shed contacted Barclays about this was told to 
reinstall it, but this didnt work.
Our investigator reassessed their opinion on several points, including the closure of the 
basic bank account, and the closure of a foreign currency account. The investigator agreed 
that Barclays hadnt closed Mrs Gs basic bank account in line with the terms that govern 
basic accounts, leaving Mrs G without access to any banking facilities. They also found that 
the foreign currency account wasnt closed due to an error on Barclays part. They didnt feel 
that Mrs G should be able to access the app any further, as the open accounts were being 
dealt with by the recoveries team at Barclays. But they accepted the incorrect information 
about the app had caused Mrs G further distress.
Overall, they recommended Barclays pay £250 for the distress caused by the closure of the 
basic account and the incorrect information given to Mrs G.
Barclays agreed, but Mrs G remained dissatisfied. She said the decision to close was a 
personal and malicious attack, and that Barclays had failed to produce proof of why the 
accounts were closed. She said she had spoken to many bank staff and none of them had 
ever heard of closures like this. She had been a loyal customer of Barclays for 40 years. 
Barclays had closed her account while she was shielding from the pandemic, and this had 
negatively affected her mental health. She said in December 2020 Barclays had been fined 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for their failings in handling customers.
This didnt change the investigators mind, and they still felt the level of compensation on 
offer was appropriate. Because no agreement could be reached the case has been passed 
to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For claritys sake in this decision Im only looking at Barclays actions relating to Mrs Gs 
personal accounts, and not any business accounts she holds. Mrs G has also raised a 
number of issues shes faced with Barclays. 
Ive read and considered all of Mrs Gs submissions regarding her complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
Ive also noted that Mrs G had asked to speak to me before I issue my decision. But having 
reviewed the file I find there is enough information for me to reach a decision without doing 
so. 
Ive reviewed the information on Barclays fine from the FCA in December 2020  but I can 
see this related to activities from 2016 to 2018. So, Im satisfied this doesnt have a bearing 
on this specific complaint. In any case, my role is to make a decision on the facts of Mrs Gs 
specific circumstances.
Closures of Mrs Gs accounts, except the basic bank accountIn their letter to Mrs G notifying her of her account closures Barclays have referred to section 
11 on page 37 of the Retail Customer Agreement. From this agreement under the heading 
When we can close an account or end a service it says We can close an account (and 
stop providing any services and end this agreement) by giving you at least two months 
notice. Any benefit or services linked to your account will stop at the same time.
This is in line with the regulations for payment accounts, and general banking practice  
including for ISAs. Its usually to allow a consumer to make alternative banking 
arrangements, and ensure no important payments were missed.
I can see from the date on the letter informing Mrs G of the closure that Barclays did give her 
two months notice. Im satisfied theyve acted in accordance with their terms and it isnt 
unreasonable for them to have done so.
Mrs G has said she wasnt aware her accounts were about to be closed. The letter sent to 
Mrs G is correctly addressed, and there are records of Barclays sending the notice. I think 
its more likely than not that the bank have fulfilled their obligations in sending the notice to 
her.
As Mrs G continued to use the account, and doesnt seem to have taken further steps to 
arrange banking elsewhere, I think it is likely she was genuinely unaware of the impending 
closure. Its possible the letter was lost in the post, or that it was received but left unread, or 
its significance not taken on board at the time. I cant be sure, but in any case, this wouldnt 
be the responsibility of Barclays. The bank have met their obligations to Mrs G by sending 
the notice, so I cant hold them responsible for Mrs G being unaware of the closure.
There are several interactions between Mrs G and Barclays between the notice and the date 
of closure, and I can see Mrs Gs point that it could have been brought to her attention that 
the accounts were due to close. This may have led her to make other arrangements sooner. 
But from the banks perspective they had given her the required notice and had met their 
obligations to her, so wouldnt be expected to inform her again. As such Barclays havent 
done anything wrong in this.
Barclays terms dont say they have to give a reason when they decide to close an account, 
so this isnt something they are obliged to tell Mrs G. Just as if a consumer wants to close 
their bank account and move elsewhere, they dont have to provide the bank with a reason. 
In general banks can make the commercial decision that they no longer want to provide 
banking services for any reason they see fit. It also doesnt have to be one specific reason  
it could be for a confluence of a number of issues or decisions.
In this case Barclays havent given Mrs G a specific reason for the account closures and 
declined to discuss this further. Theyre under no obligation to give her any further details. 
While I understand Mrs G would like to know more, and feels it is a personal attack on her, 
Barclays arent being unreasonable here.
Ive also taken on board what Mrs G has said about the timing of the closure, particularly 
given the ongoing pandemic at the time. But I also have to bear in mind theres unlikely to 
ever be an ideal time for a bank to decide to close accounts, or to end a long-standing 
banking relationship. As I mentioned, Im satisfied that Barclays sent Mrs G the required 
notice period before closing her accounts and Ive not seen anything to suggest they failed in 
any duty of care they have towards her in closing her accounts. Because of this, I dont 
expect them to do anything further in regards to these closures. 
Closure of Mrs Gs basic bank accountMrs G also held a basic bank account with Barclays. These are different than regular current 
accounts, and banks are only entitled to close these in specific circumstances  in this case 
the most relevant is when the consumer has a bank account they can use elsewhere. So, 
even if there is provision in the terms of the basic bank account for the bank to close it, it 
doesnt always mean they can.
In this case, Im satisfied Mrs G didnt have personal accounts elsewhere  she had to 
transfer her available funds to her business account, which suggests to me she didnt have. 
By closing her basic bank account Barclays left her without access to personal banking 
facilities. 
When Barclays took the decision to close the basic bank account she did have other 
accounts  but these were accounts Barclays were also closing. I think the bank could have 
anticipated that this may leave her in a difficult situation, but this doesnt seem to have been 
considered. Overall, Im not satisfied it was fair or reasonable for Barclays to close Mrs Gs 
basic bank account.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of this closure on Mrs G  and I think it did cause her a 
degree of inconvenience in having to contact Barclays to sort out access to her own funds. 
But Mrs G was also able to mitigate this somewhat by arranging the available funds to be 
transferred to her business account after six days. But I think it did add undue stress to Mrs 
G for the period she couldnt access her funds, so I think an award of compensation is 
appropriate.
Online access
Ive considered Mrs Gs complaint about Barclays removing access to her app. Considering 
the term I highlighted above says Barclays can remove services, Im satisfied that Barclays 
were entitled to stop access to the app and other online services. This is regular when 
accounts are closed, since the accounts arent operational anymore. 
The only accounts that remain open are where money is owed to the bank, and I can see 
Barclays have explained these will be handled by their collections department. Theyve also 
provided Mrs G with details about how to contact the collections department. 
I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong by withdrawing app and online access for 
Mrs Gs personal accounts.
I accept Mrs G was told to redownload the app after her access for personal accounts was 
removed. But I find it likely this was to allow her to continue to access the business account, 
which was still open at the time. I dont think the intention was to suggest she could continue 
to access her personal accounts this way.
The service provided to Mrs G
Mrs G has raised a large number of issues about the service provided to her by Barclays, 
after her accounts were closed. Ive reviewed the correspondence between Mrs G and 
Barclays, as well as listened to the phone calls between the two. 
Broadly, I find that Barclays could have been significantly more helpful and sympathetic to 
Mrs G at the time. As I mentioned above I accept it did come as a shock to her to fund her 
accounts had been closed and banking facilities withdrawn. Barclays would have been 
unlikely to know about this at the time, but it would have become reasonably apparent as 
soon as she got in touch with them. From the calls Ive reviewed I can hear her genuine upset and anguish at this, as well as not receiving a clear explanation from Barclays about 
what to do to access the funds she had available. 
It also would have been helpful to explain at the earliest available opportunity that the 
accounts with debit balances would be being handled by the collections team, and that the 
currency account was also intended on being closed. By not doing this Barclays will have left 
Mrs G with a confusing impression of what was going on.
Some people she spoke to at Barclays have given Mrs G the impression that the closure of 
her accounts was down to a personal issue, or was done so improperly. I havent found that 
to be the case, but Mrs G being told this would add to her sense of distress and confusion.
I also bear in mind that this could have been mitigated somewhat if Barclays had kept the 
basic bank account open  Mrs G wouldve had an account she could use to transfer any 
remaining funds in to.
Instead, Mrs G has had to repeatedly get in touch with Barclays to find out what had 
happened. Quite often she wasnt able to speak to a person who could actually help or 
support her. Because of both her own circumstances, and the wider impact of the pandemic, 
I also understand her reluctance to attend a branch.
At the point her accounts were closed Barclays could have known she still had funds 
remaining and regular payments due  so it would seem reasonable to have a 
straightforward system to let her get in make arrangements for these funds. But this didnt 
happen, so Im satisfied Barclays have added to her distress and inconvenience by doing so, 
and its right that Barclays pay compensation for this.
Conclusions
In summary, I think its reasonable for Barclays to withdraw banking facilities, including app 
and online access, from Mrs G, and they gave the required notice to do so. Theyre not 
required to provide Mrs G with a stated reason for doing so. So, Im not asking them to do 
anything further.
But Barclays should have made provision for Mrs G to continue using the basic bank 
account, as not doing so left her without personal banking facilities. And this goes against 
the regulations around basic bank accounts. Im satisfied this led to unnecessary 
inconvenience to her.
Im also satisfied that Barclays didnt treat Mrs G reasonably with the service they provided 
after her accounts were closed, and by not being able to provide clear explanation of what 
had happened has led to Mrs G suffering additional distress.
Having considered the circumstances I think £250 would be an appropriate level of 
compensation for Barclays to pay Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint, and I order Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
pay Mrs G £250. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman