DRN-2170139
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the cancellation of a buy trade order (worth around £60,000) he 
placed in his Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) trading account on 25 September 2019.
What happened
Mr H placed the At Best order, through Barclays trading platform, at 9.21am and within the 
same minute he cancelled it by using the platforms cancellation button. The cancellation 
remained pending at 9.27am when he called Barclays to have it confirmed. 
According to Barclays records the call lasted 37 minutes and by the time it ended the 
message to Mr H was that his order had been executed prior to his call and could not be 
cancelled. Barclays records also show that execution of the order was not completed until 
around 12.30pm on the day. Mr H was sent a confirmation email in this respect. However, he 
also received  at the same time  an email from Barclays confirming that his order had 
been cancelled. He says he saw the cancellation email and assumed his cancellation 
request had eventually been confirmed, and that he did not see the email about execution of 
the trade until the following morning.
On 26 September 2019, around 9.30am, Mr H called Barclays to clarify the conflicting emails 
and he expressed dissatisfaction that the trade had been executed despite the email 
informing him that it had been cancelled. During this call he was advised to take no action on 
the holding bought through the trade as the trade might be reversable. During another call 
around 12.15pm Barclays confirmed that the trade would stand, and Mr H had to make his 
own decision on what to do with the holding. He sold the holding the following day (27 
September 2019) for around £47,500, realising a loss of around £12,500.
Mr H complained about what he considered to be the malfunctioning of Barclays trading 
platform, with specific regard to the cancellation button not working as he expected it to; he 
also complained about being misled during his conversations with Barclays (about his ability 
to cancel the order and the execution of the order) and being misled by the email that 
confirmed his order had been cancelled. In the main, he sought recovery of his loss from the 
trade, based on the argument that he would not have incurred such a loss if the order had 
been cancelled.
Barclays gave a mixed response to the complaint. It did not consider its platform had done 
anything wrong and did not accept any wrongdoing in terms of the execution of the order on 
25 September; however, it noted that it provided an execution only service so it should not 
have advised Mr H to retain the holding in the morning of 26 September as it did; it also 
conceded that Mr H was given conflicting information about his cancellation request in the 
emails he received and during the calls he made; but it maintained that at the time of his first 
call on 25 September the order had been executed and could not be cancelled. 
For the trouble and upset caused to him in the matter Barclays offered Mr H £500; for giving 
him advice, on 26 September, to take no action on the holding  when it should not have 
given such advice  Barclays offered him compensation in the amount of the loss in value of 
the holding between 9.47am on the day (when he was told to take no action) and 12.15pm 
on the day (when he was told its previous statement was wrong and that it was for him to 
decide on what to do with the holding); Barclays considered that its responsibility for the 
advice expired at the latter time; the compensation amounted to £4,017.46; and with the 
addition of interest and deduction of tax the net compensation amount of £4,056.89 was 
offered to Mr H.
Mr H did not consider that this outcome sufficiently resolved his complaint. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and noted that it was reasonable for Mr H to assume the 
order had been cancelled when (and after) he received Barclays email confirming the 
cancellation; so Barclays calculation of compensation should begin from 12.39pm on 25 
September when this email was sent/received; and she considered that Barclays offer of 
£500 for trouble and upset is reasonable. 
Barclays thereafter offered to extend the calculation of Mr Hs loss even further by starting 
from the time of his first call on 25 September. However, this produced a negative outcome 
and the investigator said such an outcome does not give fair resolution to Mr Hs complaint. 
Barclays retained its position and the matter was referred to an ombudsman  to me. 
I considered the matter and, with the help of the investigator, my preliminary view was 
shared with Barclays (and with Mr H) for comments in response. My view was expressed as 
follows  
I consider that [Mr Hs] case should be upheld and I appreciate that Barclays already 
acknowledges that some parts of the case should be upheld. However, my preliminary view 
is that the case should be upheld on the basis that the trade should have been cancelled 
(wholly or partially) in the course of [Mr Hs] telephone call to Barclays at 9.27am on 25 
September 2019 (around 6 minutes after he tried to cancel the trade on the platform). I hold 
this view because the balance of available evidence is that either none or only a limited part 
of the trade had been executed at the time of the call, so the implication is that either all or 
the majority of the trade had yet to be executed, could have been cancelled and should have 
been cancelled. In straightforward terms, the fact that the trade had to be worked in the 
market for the next three hours and the fact that its execution was not completed until past 
12pm strongly suggests that a complete or partial cancellation should have been and was 
possible around 9.27am. To support this view, I note the following from Barclays 
investigation report:
During the call that began at 9.27am [Mr H] is told the trade order is pending, then he 
is told the order is locked in at price 0.045 but a dealer was attempting to better the 
price, and then by 9.30am he is told that the order has been executed at price 0.045. 
This describes a trade that, within three minutes, was pending  then found a price  
then sought a better price  then executed at the initial price that was found. 
However, we know this was either inaccurate or misleading because execution of the 
trade did not complete until around three hours later and in the interim the order had 
to worked in the market due to its size (which was above the relevant EMS).
Barclays explanation of what happened during the three hours of working the order 
is that because it was much larger than the average trade size it took time to fulfil and 
that During this time, the dealer was arranging prices with counterparties to  get 
the amount of shares to complete the trade and  see if [the dealer] can arrange a 
better final price. [my emphasis] This, as I have emphasised, appears to be a 
concession by Barclays that the trade was nowhere near execution at 9.27am and 
that it needed all of the following three hours to search for and find enough shares to 
buy to fill the trade and to agree a price for the trade. 
Barclays Head of Platform Transactions Customer Journeys says All requests to 
cancel a pending order are queued up; most cancel immediately; however in a case 
where an order has already been claimed (by a Dealer) the cancellation would be rejected if the order is subsequently dealt. Available evidence is that [Mr Hs] 
cancellation request remained pending at the time of the call  not rejected. I am 
persuaded that this happened because, as the quote describes, the request would 
have been rejected if the trade had been dealt but the trade had not been dealt at 
that time (and was not completely dealt until three hours later) so the cancellation 
request remained pending. An error on Barclays part therefore appears to have 
occurred, whereby it failed to act on a pending cancellation request despite the fact 
that the trade had not been executed and could be cancelled. 
In light of the above and in the absence of evidence that a definitive part of the trade was 
executed by 9.30am on 25 September 2019, when [Mr Hs] call appears to have ended, the 
conclusions that follow are that the trade continued to be worked during that call, that it had 
not been dealt during that call, that it could have been cancelled during that call and that it 
should have been cancelled during that call (given that [Mr Hs] repetition of his cancellation 
request over the platform and telephone could not have been clearer). If there is evidence 
that a definitive part of the trade was executed by 9.30am on 25 September  which 
Barclays needs to present and refer me to  then these conclusions apply to the part of the 
trade that was not executed by this time.
The above is further supported by Barclays terms for the trading service. The provisions of 
Section B, Part 2, paragraph 1.12 (c) match the notion of manually working an order (for 
example, and in [Mr Hs] case, where it is larger than the average trade size); paragraph 2.2 
in the same section and part says the At Best trade order that [Mr H] placed is subject to 
execution in full with a counterparty; paragraph 2.3 in the same section and part addresses 
the factors that affect trade orders and says An Order is monitored by us and presented for 
execution when its conditions are met unless it expires, is cancelled or rejected or not 
accepted by a Counterparty. Overall and on balance, I consider that, aside from the 
cancellation that was not performed (and should have been performed), all these provisions 
are broadly reflected in what Barclays did with the trade and they are not inconsistent with 
my preliminary view that the trade was not executed during [Mr Hs] initial telephone call and 
could (and should) have been cancelled at the time.
If the above view is retained, and if it applies to the order as a whole, then everything that 
happened after 9.30am on 25 September becomes arguably irrelevant  because Barclays 
should have cancelled the order by this time and had it done so nothing would thereafter 
have happened with the order; in this case fair compensation for [Mr H] would be payment of 
the total financial loss he incurred in the entire trade (that is, the total difference between 
what he paid for the holding and what he sold it for) minus the compensation that Barclays 
has already paid him.
If Barclays can prove that a definitive part of the trade was executed by 9.30am on 25 
September 2019 then such part could not have been cancelled, but the remainder of the 
trade could and should have been cancelled; in this case fair compensation for [Mr H] would 
first be a payment of the total financial loss he incurred in the remainder of the trade (which 
could and should have been cancelled, but was not) minus the compensation that Barclays 
has already paid him; I appreciate [Mr H] would seek compensation for any part of the trade 
that was executed by the above time and could not be cancelled; on balance I consider that 
if Barclays had given him any relevant and accurate information in this respect he would 
have  or ought to have  mitigated this by selling the shares derived from the partial 
execution on the same day (25 September 2019) so fair compensation for this element 
would be based on calculating the total sale value of the specific number of shares based on 
the closing share price on 25 September 2019 [a], calculating what the same number of 
shares generated, in total, when the wider holding was sold on 27 September 2019 [b] and if 
a is greater than b then the difference should be paid to [Mr H] in compensation, otherwise 
no compensation is due in this respect.Interest could apply to any compensation award.
Barclays responded and mainly said:
The order was picked up by its Dealing Team at 9.22am on 25 September and was 
executed with a counterparty at 9.25am.
The counterparty agreed to underwrite the trade at the price of 0.045p, the order was 
stopped at this price whilst an attempt was made to improve the price for Mr H.
Between 9.25am and 12.29pm this attempt was successful as the trade was 
booked at 0.0448p.
The order could not be cancelled because Barclays had committed to buy, at the 
share price of 0.045p, the shares from the counterparty at 9.25am; the counterparty 
agreed to try to improve the price by buying in more of the relevant shares in order to 
pass on to M H (at a lower price); and this is what was eventually achieved by 
12.29pm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to depart from my preliminary view in this 
matter. I retain that view, as quoted above, and I incorporate it into this decision. 
I appreciate the response provided by Barclays, but it falls short of defeating the key point 
conveyed in my preliminary view  which, in simple terms, was that the order had not gone 
past the point of no return when Mr H called at 9.27am on 25 September, so it should have 
been cancelled. 
My first observation is that Barclays response presents an account of events that is 
somewhat different from what has previously been said. 
As stated in my preliminary view, Barclays investigation report said that when this call 
happened at 9.27am the trade order was still pending  yet its response to my view says 
the order was executed two minutes earlier at 9.25am; Barclays complaint response letter to 
Mr H said that at the time of the call it had  partially completed the trade at the market  
[my emphasis]  this too appears to conflict with its present assertion that the entire trade 
was executed, before the call, at 9.25am; its investigation report said during the three hours 
it took to work the trade order in the market  the dealer was arranging prices with 
counterparties to  get the amount of shares to complete the trade and  see if [the dealer] 
can arrange a better final price [my emphasis]  but it now says the order was worked with 
only one counterparty and that it was the counterparty, not the dealer, that sought to procure 
the number of shares needed to fill the order and sought to improve the price for Mr H.
On balance, I consider that an element of doubt can be applied to Barclays present account 
of events and I am not persuaded to accept it over what has previously been said.
The notion of a trade executed at 9.25am does not match the reality of a trade that 
subsequently had to be worked in the market for around three hours and was eventually 
executed around 12.30pm. Whatever the arrangements were during these three hours, the 
focal point must be on the state of affairs as of 9.27am  when Mr H was directly engaged in 
the call with Barclays and wanted the order cancelled. Whether the order was worked with one counterparty or more than one counterparty, the fact 
is that it had to be worked in the market for around three hours after 9.27am. Another fact 
that has been conceded within Barclays statements is that, at 9.27am, it had essentially just 
begun to search for the total number of shares required to fill the order. I have not seen 
evidence of any commitment to an executed trade, to match the order, at 9.27am and, 
despite the invitation within my preliminary view, I have not seen evidence of any partial 
execution of the order by this time.
Overall, on balance, for the above reasons, and for the reasons given in my preliminary 
view, I remain persuaded that Mr Hs entire order could have been cancelled at 9.27am on 
25 September 2019 and should have been cancelled at that time.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigators finding that the £500 offered by Barclays to Mr H is a 
reasonable amount to cater for the trouble and upset caused to him. If this payment has not 
already been made, I order Barclays to now make it to him.
I am also mindful of the net compensation amount of £4,056.89 that Barclays has already 
offered Mr H. This appears to have already been paid to him. If so, this amount should be 
deducted from the compensation ordered below; but if it has not already been paid then no 
such deduction should be made.
Fair compensation to Mr H is to return him to the position he would be in had the trade order 
been cancelled. I appreciate that he might or might not have proceeded with the same or 
similar trade thereafter, but because the trade was not cancelled, we will never know what 
would have happened (and what the circumstances of any such alternative trade would have 
been) in this respect. As such, it would not be fair or reasonable to deprive him of 
compensation in the face of such uncertainties.
To compensate Mr H fairly, Barclays must:
Calculate the exact total amount Mr H paid for the holding that was bought through 
the trade on 25 September 2019. [a]
Calculate the exact total amount Mr H received when he sold the holding on 27 
September 2019. [b]
If a is greater than b, pay Mr H the full difference as compensation. [c]
Pay interest on c at the rate of 8% simple per year from 27 September 2019 to the 
date of settlement. [Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.]
Provide Mr H with a calculation of this compensation in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay him compensation (alongside a clear and simple calculation of the compensation) as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman