DRN-2369438
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs C says the PPI was included as part of the credit card package, but I think Halifax 
made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I 
say this because Halifax has given us a copy of Mrs Cs credit card application and 
agreement. This is a pre-printed document, and which contains details and information 
about Mrs Cs circumstances. I think it most likely came about as a result of the 
discussion Mrs C had with the Halifax representative at the time of the sale. It includes 
the statement You have requested: Repayments Cover. And Mrs C has gone onto sign 
and date the agreement. If Mrs C didnt agree with the statement I would have expected 
her to have questioned it at the time and before signing her agreement. So, I think it 
most likely that the policy was discussed at the time and Mrs C decided to take the PPI 
upon application for her credit card. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs C, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs C was eligible for the cover 
and she had limited means to fall back on to make the credit card repayments in the 
event she wasnt working, so she had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs C as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. Mrs C has said she was financially stretched at the time of 
the sale, but I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for her  so it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont 
think Mrs C would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman