DRN-2482292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined their home insurance 
claim under the section of their policy covering occupiers and personal liability. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A kept a pony at their home. In November 2019, following some fireworks being 
let off nearby, the pony escaped from the outbuilding it was in, ran into the road and kept 
running for about a mile and half before subsequently being hit by a car and dying 
approximately an hour later. 
The owner of the car claimed against Mr and Mrs A for damage to the vehicle and personal 
injury. Mr and Mrs A submitted a claim to Great Lakes under the occupiers and personal 
liability section of their home insurance policy. Great Lakes reviewed the claim against the 
policy terms but, in mid-January 2020, it declined to cover it, citing a policy exclusion under 
that particular section of the policy excluding policyholders from owning and keeping horses 
or ponies. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with Great Lakes decision. They said the policy covered them for 
damage caused by domestic pets which the pony was. Great Lakes looked at the claim 
again and said to Mr and Mrs A that whilst damage caused by domestic pets was covered by 
the policy there was still a specific policy exclusion excluding the policyholder owning or 
keeping any horses and ponies, whether domesticated or not. So, it said, regrettably, it was 
unable to assist them any further with their claim for third-party injury and loss that had 
arisen as a result of the incident. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Great Lakes. Great Lakes looked into the complaint but didnt 
think itd done anything wrong. So, Mr and Mrs A complained to this service. In addition to 
complaining about the decision to decline their claim, they also complained at the time taken 
to communicate that decision to them. Our investigator looked into their complaint but, taking 
the terms and conditions of the policy into account, didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly or 
unreasonably declined the claim. And she said she was unable to consider their complaint 
about the delay in letting them know the claim wasnt covered because that complaint 
needed to be made to Great Lakes in the first instance so it could have the opportunity to 
look into it. 
Mr and Mrs A said to our investigator that the broker that sold them the policy believed the 
claim was covered. Our investigator said in response that despite that being the case, she 
didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly relied on the policy exclusion for horses and ponies to 
decline their claim. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sure that the loss of their pony in such circumstances must have been most upsetting 
for Mr and Mrs A. And the subsequent claim made against them by the third-party driver of 
the vehicle must be very stressful.  But its my role to decide, taking the policy terms and 
conditions into account, whether Great Lakes fairly and reasonably declined Mr and Mrs As 
claim. And, despite my sympathy for the loss of their family pet and the difficulties they have 
had to face as a result, Im afraid that I think Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr and Mrs As claim to Great Lakes fell to be considered under the cover provided by the 
occupiers and personal liability section of their home insurance policy. The policy states:
We will pay up to £2,000,000 to cover Your legal liability for damages You have to pay if
someone makes a claim against You or Your Family for:
accidental death or illness of, or bodily injury to, any person
accidental loss of or damage to property, that happens within the Period of Insurance on
your Schedule.
The policy document goes onto explain what is excluded from this part of the policy:
d) You owning, keeping or using any:
IV. , animals except domestic pets
V. horses, ponies, donkeys or mules
I do of course appreciate that Mr and Mrs A considered their pony to be a domestic pet. But 
the owning of horses and ponies is specifically excluded from cover whether they are 
considered by the policyholder to be domestic pets or not. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to have relied on the above exclusion to 
decline Mr and Mrs As claim. No insurance policy provides cover for every eventuality that 
occurs. Only the specific events listed in the policy are covered and they are subject to 
consideration against the policy terms and exclusions. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs A have also mentioned their claim may be covered under the 
public and personal liability section of the buildings cover section of their policy. This section 
of the policy is for claims resulting from being the owner of the building which, unfortunately 
for Mr and Mrs A, this claim isnt about. 
Im unable to look here at Mr and Mrs As complaint about the time it took Great Lakes to 
decide their claim wasnt covered. This is because this service can only look at complaints a 
financial business had had the opportunity to respond to first and I cant see that this 
particular aspect of Mr and Mrs As complaint is one they have yet referred to Great Lakes. 
Ive thought too about Mr and Mrs As comment that the broker who sold them the policy 
believed theirs was a claim that was covered. Unfortunately, Ive seen no comment from the 
broker about why he specifically thinks that to be the case nor why he doesnt think the 
exclusion applies. But, regardless, the fact remains that the policy terms specifically exclude 
the owning of horses and ponies from the occupiers and personal liability section of the 
policy. 
It follows that I think the claim has been declined in line with the policy terms so Im unable to 
uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint or require Great Lakes to take any further action. For the 
reasons Ive given I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to do so, despite my sympathy for the 
situation Mr and Mrs A are in.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman