DRN-2366001
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Santander UK Plc will not refund money that they say is missing 
from their joint account.
What happened
On 19 November 2019 Mrs A said she attended her local Santander branch with £3730 in 
cash. She said she wanted Santander to change this money into £50 denomination notes.
Mrs A said Santander gave her £2000 cash in £50 notes. But due to a shortage of £50 notes 
it offered to deposit £1730 into Mr and Mrs As joint current account. Santander said Mrs A 
was asked to place her joint current account debit card into the Chip and PIN reader to 
enable the deposit to be made. And it said she subsequently entered the correct PIN and 
was verified by the reader. 
Santander said Mrs A then withdrew £2000 in cash after transferring that sum from her joint 
savings account to her joint current account. It also said Mrs A was provided with a receipt 
confirming these transactions. But she said she wasnt presented with a receipt for either 
transaction.
Around four months after the transactions in question took place Mr and Mrs A approached 
Santander to complain. They said theyd realised that, on 19 November 2019, £2000 had 
been transferred from their savings account to their current account, which they hadnt 
authorised. They said this money was missing and they hadnt used their savings account 
for the past five years as the money was intended to be used by their children.
Santander investigated the concerns Mr and Mrs A had raised. But it didnt uphold their 
complaint. It stated that Mrs A had transferred the £2000 in question from their joint savings 
account to their current account so that this sum could be withdrawn in cash. And Santander 
said Mrs A had been verified by the Chip and PIN reader prior to doing so. It said it had 
checked the bank balance sheets for the date in question and there were no errors or 
discrepancies found. So, the money wasnt unaccounted for or missing. It therefore declined 
to refund the £2000 Mr and Mrs A said was missing.
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs A brought their 
complaint to us. Our investigator empathised with them but didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. But Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint 
and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs A experienced here. I can see how 
strongly they feel about their complaint and I appreciate the reason why they brought it to 
our service. But, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs A, my role is to assess whether I think 
Santander made a mistake, or treated them unfairly, such that it needs to now put things 
right.  
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr and Mrs A and Santander that Ive read everything thats 
been sent. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its 
just that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where there is a disagreement about what happened, as there is here, I must base my 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances, on the 
balance of the evidence available. 
After giving careful consideration to what is being said here Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I understand that Mr and Mrs A 
will be disappointed with my conclusions. So, Ill explain why I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A said a cashier at Santander transferred £2000 from their joint savings account 
without their knowledge and they say that this money is unaccounted for. But Santander has 
explained that money cannot be paid in, withdrawn or transferred between accounts by staff 
members on a customers behalf without the customer authorising the transaction, which is 
done by them entering their card into the Chip and PIN reader and being verified in that way.
Mrs A said this didnt happen during her branch visit. But I havent seen any evidence to lead 
me to conclude that Santander could have bypassed this system or that it didnt follow that 
process here. 
The evidence Ive considered persuades me that Mrs A deposited funds into her account on 
19 November 2019 via verification by Chip and PIN. And Im satisfied that the only way she 
could have been transferred funds from her joint savings account is if shed authorised the 
transfer via Chip and PIN verification during her branch visit. Based on what Ive seen, I think 
thats what, most likely, happened here.
Santander had provided an account from the cashier who served Mrs A on the date in 
question. They were able to recall the branch visit in detail and stated that Mrs A paid in 
£1730 and wanted to withdraw £2000 cash in £50 denomination notes. However, this would 
have made the account overdrawn by £246.10. So, Santander said Mrs A transferred £2000 
to that account from her joint savings account to facilitate the withdrawal she wanted to 
make. The account history Ive seen supports what Santander has said about what 
happened. So, I think the account Santanders provided here is correct.
Santander said its banking records from 19 November 2019 show the till balancing sheets 
for the cashier who served Mrs A was checked and disclosed no discrepancies or errors. 
Santander also said other balancing sheets for other branch staff were checked. And all 
records balanced at the end of the banking day. 
Having seen the records in question, Im satisfied that if the money in question had gone 
missing the banking records would show that there was an imbalance. Because these 
records were balanced this would indicate that all the funds that were transferred from Mr 
and Mrs As savings account have been accounted for. 
I can see Mr and Mrs A are unhappy Santander hasnt been able to provide CCTV showing 
the transaction. I understand that the footage covering the relevant date has been deleted 
given the passage of time. I dont think thats unreasonable. And I also think that the delay in Mr and Mrs A raising their concerns with Santander about this transaction meant it couldnt 
know it would have needed to preserve and retain any CCTV that may have shown the 
branch transactions undertaken by Mrs A. I therefore cant fairly hold Santander responsible 
for the destruction of CCTV.
I understand Mr and Mrs A will feel disappointed by this decision. But, in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, I think Santander used its best efforts, without the benefit of 
any CCTV, to assist Mr and Mrs A in raising their concerns. And I think it dealt with their 
complaint fairly. As I dont think Santander made an error here, Im not going to ask it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman