DRN-3279558
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim under his home contents policy.
What happened
Mr S advertised a camera lens for sale through an online marketplace. He arranged to meet 
with a buyer and they agreed the sale. The buyer asked Mr S to fill out his bank details in a 
banking app, which showed that the payment had been made. While the buyer was still 
there, Mr S checked his bank account, but the money hadnt come through. So, Mr S 
refused to hand over the lens. 
Mr S said the buyer became increasingly persuasive and aggressive and so he gave the 
buyer the lens before the situation became physically violent. Mr S also took a photo of the 
buyers registration plate before the buyer left with the lens. The money still didnt arrive in 
Mr Ss bank account. Mr S reported it to the police the next day, but the police said the car 
registration plate was fake. So, Mr S contacted RSA to make a claim. RSA declined the 
claim because it said the policy didnt cover theft by deception.
Mr S complained to RSA. When RSA replied, it again said theft by deception wasnt covered 
by the policy. So, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said RSA had declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, which didnt cover theft by deception.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 December 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr S specified the camera lens on his insurance policy. Based on what Mr S has said, when 
he tried to sell the lens, although the buyer went to Mr Ss home address, the whole buying 
process took place outside of his home. So, looking at the policy, the only part that would 
seem to apply is the Out and About cover. This part of the policy had an exclusion for loss 
by deception. So, Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim 
based on this exclusion. 
Mr S has explained that he had doubts about the sale being genuine when the payment 
didnt arrive in his bank account. So, he refused to hand over the lens. Mr S then kept the 
buyer on his doorstep for 20 minutes while he waited for the payment to arrive. However, Mr 
S said the buyer became aggressive, accusing Mr S of taking his money. Mr S told this 
service although deceit was involved, the product was ultimately stolen as I was trying to 
protect my own and partner's safety by avoiding a dangerous situation as the situation 
became increasingly hostile, with the suspect on my door-step for an extended period. He 
was also with an additional person, who remained in the car. Mr S also looked up the 
buyers registration plate and took a photo of it, but the plate turned out to be fake, and 
reported what happened to the police the following day. So, I think Mr S also acted with 
reasonable care to try and prevent the loss. 
From what Ive seen Mr S took a number of actions during the buying process because he 
had concerns about the sale. Thinking about everything that happened, I currently think its 
more likely than not that if it hadnt been for Mr Ss concerns about the situation becoming 
violent that he wouldnt have handed over the lens. So, although I think deception was a 
factor in what happened, I think Mr Ss actions and account of what happened support that a 
threat was present and that this is what caused him to hand over the lens. As a result, its 
currently my view that it wasnt reasonable for RSA to apply the deception exclusion in order 
to decline the claim. So, I currently intend to require RSA to reconsider the claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, without applying the exclusion for loss by 
deception.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 17 January 2022.
Mr S said he had nothing further to my add and that my understanding was in line with the 
events.
RSA said it would make arrangements to settle the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive found no reason to change my view on how this complaint should 
be resolved.
Putting things right
RSA should reconsider the claim for the camera lens in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, without applying the exclusion for loss by deception.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to reconsider the claim 
for the camera lens in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, without 
applying the exclusion for loss by deception.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman