DRN-3923896
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited unfairly rejected a claim he made under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) regarding the purchase of a holiday product. 
The credit card account used to make the purchase was in Mr Ss sole name, which is why 
the complaint is only in his name. But as the transaction in question relates to a contract 
entered into by both Mr S and his wife, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs S throughout much of this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs S have been represented, successively, by two firms, which Ill refer to 
collectively as Mr and Mrs Ss representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought a holiday product from a company (the Company) in 2010. Theyve 
explained that they were on holiday when they were persuaded to attend a sales 
presentation. At the end of the presentation they were approached by one of the Companys 
sales representatives, who subjected them to a rigorous and scripted sales pitch. 
Mr and Mrs S decided to go ahead with the purchase. From the limited evidence provided, it 
looks as if they used Mr Ss MBNA credit card to pay the deposit.
Mr and Mrs S say that during the presentation, the Companys representative made the 
following representations, which later turned out not to be true:
The purchase would benefit Mr and Mrs S as an investment, increasing in value and 
yielding returns in the future; and
Maintenance fees and charges would be rational and manageable.
They also say that the Company misrepresented the sale, exit and perpetuity of the 
timeshare to them. They say they havent been able to sell it with ease or free will and that 
as a result, theyre bound for life and obliged to pass financial liability down to their 
dependants.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives said that Mr and Mrs S relied solely on the information the 
Companys sales representative gave them. They said they werent given vital and critical 
information about the holiday product, and this led them to be forced and led into making an 
impulsive and uninformed purchase. Whats more, they said that the cooling-off period 
wasnt mentioned to them, and they believe that this further underlines the fact that 
Mr and Mrs S were forced into making an impulsive and uninformed purchase. They said 
Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have bought the holiday product if it hadnt been for the 
misrepresentations, and that theyve lost out financially as a result.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives also said that the relationship between Mr S and MBNA was 
unfair because there was an inequality of financial expertise between Mr and Mrs S and the 
Company. They said Mr and Mrs Ss right to choose was limited and that inadequate advice 
was given.
MBNA considered Mr Ss claim to be time-barred. It said a claim under section 75 CCA 
should be made within six years of the date of the contract. But it was first notified of Mr Ss 
claim in November 2018. As Mr and Mrs S entered the contract to buy the holiday product in 
July 2010, eight years had passed since the alleged misrepresentations. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives dispute that Mr S brought his claim too late. They accept that 
the date on which Mr and Mrs S bought the holiday product may be outside the six-year 
period. But they say that it only became apparent to Mr and Mrs S that the company had 
misrepresented the position to them a few years after they bought the product. And they say 
that Mr and Mrs S complained within six years of discovering that theyd been misled. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that the six-year time period for bringing a claim under section 75 CCA 
runs from the date of loss, which he considered to be November 2010, when Mr and Mrs S 
entered the contract and paid money to the Company. So he said Mr S would have needed 
to raise his claim under section 75 CCA by November 2016, even if it was only some time 
after the purchase that Mr and Mrs S realised something was wrong. Given that Mr S didnt 
raise his claim until 2018, he didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly by declining to look further 
into the misrepresentation claim. And he thought it was unlikely that a court would conclude 
that the relationship between the Company and Mr and Mrs S was unfair.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I dont think MBNA has acted unfairly in declining Mr Ss claim. Ill explain 
why.
Section 75 CCA
Mr and Mrs S have complained that the Company mis-sold them the holiday product 
because the maintenance fees and charges, investment potential and other details were 
misrepresented at the time of sale.
Where a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier (the Company, in 
this case) they can, in certain circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under 
section 75 of the CCA. The claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the 
consumer could make against the supplier, provided its made inside the relevant limitation 
period. 
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.Only a court can decide whether Mr Ss claim was made out of time under the Limitation Act 
1980. But the Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether 
MBNAs response to the claim was reasonable.
Im satisfied that in this case the date on which the cause of action accrued was the date on 
which Mr and Mrs S suffered damage. And any relevant damage would have been incurred 
when Mr and Mrs S bought the product and not, as their representatives have suggested, 
the date on which Mr and Mrs S later came to the view that the Company had 
misrepresented the position to them. This is because date of purchase was the point at 
which they became liable under the purchase agreement and paid for the benefits which 
they say were misrepresented to them.
This means that any claim under section 75 CCA would need to be made within six years of 
the date when Mr and Mrs S bought the holiday product. That was in 2010. From what Ive 
seen, they didnt contact MBNA until 2018. And by that time the six-year period within which 
theyd have needed to bring an action under section 75 CCA had expired.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Ss representatives have suggested that the time limit 
should be extended. But they havent provided any explanation of their reason for this, even 
though theyve had ample time to do so. And I havent seen anything to make me think its 
likely that a court would decide that Mr S could have brought a claim under the CCA later 
than the end of the six-year period.
Given that I think it likely that a court would say that Mr Ss claim for misrepresentation under 
section 75 is out of time, I cant fairly conclude that it was wrong of MBNA to turn down the 
claim.
Section 140A CCA
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives have also argued that the relationship between Mr S and 
MBNA was unfair because there was an inequality of financial expertise between Mr and 
Mrs S and the Company, and they believe that the Company gave them inadequate advice.
Section 140A CCA allows a court to determine whether an unfair relationship exists between 
the creditor (MBNA in this case) and the debtor (Mr S) because of any of the terms of the 
related credit agreement, the way the creditor has enforced their rights under the agreement 
or any other thing done by (or on behalf of) the creditor before or after the credit agreement 
was made. Again, only a court has power to make such a determination, but as I consider it 
to be relevant law, Ive taken it into account in deciding whether MBNA acted fairly in 
declining Mr Ss claim.
Ive also borne in mind that, under Section 56 of the CCA any negotiations between Mr S 
and the Company are deemed to have been conducted by the Company as an agent for 
MBNA. This includes any representations made by the Company and any other dealings 
between them. In the context of section 140A this means that the pre-contractual acts or 
omissions of the Company are deemed to be the responsibility of the lender. So this may be 
taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between the 
consumer and the lender.Based on the limited evidence Ive seen, Im not convinced that theres any basis on which 
I could properly conclude that there was an unfair relationship in this case. The main 
reasons that Mr and Mrs Ss representatives have given for saying that there was an unfair 
relationship are that they werent given vital information about the holiday product, and were 
forced into making an impulsive and uninformed purchase. Theyve also said that there 
was an inequality of financial expertise between Mr and Mrs S and the Company and that 
the Company gave them inadequate advice.
But although Mr and Mrs Ss representatives have said that the sales pitch was rigorous, I 
dont think that implies that Mr and Mrs S were unreasonably pressured to sign the 
agreement, or that they ended up making the purchase against their will.
I accept that its possible that the disclosure of information about the product could have 
been clearer. But even if it could, that doesnt automatically mean that there was such an 
imbalance of information between the parties that it gave rise to an unfair relationship 
between MBNA and Mr S.
I believe Mr and Mrs S were aware that they were buying a holiday product with the 
Company. As far as the details of the contract are concerned, Ive only been provided with a 
single sheet of paper, headed Dayline Proposal. That sets out the purchase price, the 
number of years financed, the applicable interest rate, the monthly payment and the annual 
international dues.
The very limited paperwork that Ive seen makes no mention of any investment value of the 
purchase or any details of how maintenance and service charges would be calculated. But 
I think it highly unlikely that the single sheet of paper was the only paperwork given to 
Mr and Mrs S at the time. And I cant reasonably conclude that the Company encouraged 
Mr and Mrs S to believe that the purchase would yield returns as an investment or that they 
were given assurances about future maintenance charges, based purely on Mr and Mrs Ss 
recollection of what was said so many years ago. 
So while I accept that the sales meeting may have been overly weighted towards the 
aspirational lifestyle the holiday product could provide, I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that its likely that a court would find that the gap in knowledge between what 
Mr and Mrs S thought they were buying and what they actually got was so significant as to 
suggest it could give rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A CCA.
Whats more, based on the limited evidence Ive been provided with, I think its likely, in any 
event, that a court would consider any claim made by Mr and Mrs S under section 140A to 
be out of time. 
As with section 75 CCA, a claim under section 140A CCA is a claim for a sum recoverable 
by statute, and the time limit for bringing an action under section 140A is six years. In the 
case of section 140A the six years runs from the time the relationship between the parties 
ended. Where a transactions paid for by credit card, that is often the date on which the 
cardholder finished paying for the particular credit card purchase. There may be situations in 
which on-going unfairness in the debtor-creditor relationship after the date of purchase 
means that the six-year period finishes later. But based on the limited information Ive been 
provided with, Ive seen nothing to make me think that that would be the case here.Determining when the cardholder finished paying for a given purchase isnt straightforward. 
A credit cards often used to make a number of purchases over time, and the outstanding 
balance each month isnt always paid off in full. But I think its reasonable to conclude that, in 
respect of any given purchase, the relationship between Mr S and MBNA ended on the 
earliest date on which he subsequently cleared his outstanding credit card balance in full. 
After all, once hed done that, he no longer owed anything to MBNA as a result of the 
purchase in question. 
From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs S only used Mr Ss credit card to pay the deposit for the 
holiday product. The balance of the purchase cost was paid a couple of weeks later. It 
appears, from the list of transactions on Mr Ss credit card that MBNA has provided, that 
Mr S paid off the full balance on his credit card each month by direct debit. On that basis the 
six-year period started running in December 2010, when Mr S paid his credit card bill that 
included the deposit payment for the holiday product. And so by the time Mr and Mrs S first 
raised their complaint in 2018, the six-year period had expired. 
It follows that I think it likely that a court would find Mr Ss claim that there was an unfair 
relationship to be out of time. So I couldnt fairly conclude that MBNA should have upheld 
any claim Mr S might have made under section 140A CCA.
So in summary, Im not persuaded on the evidence provided that its likely that a court would 
consider the relationship between Mr S and MBNA to have been unfair. And I think its 
unlikely, in any event, that a court would consider a claim by Mr S under section 140A to 
have been made in time. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that MBNA should have upheld 
any complaint Mr S may have made that his relationship with MBNA was unfair.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman