DRN-3343335
The complaint
Mrs W complains about her insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA). Her complaint relates 
to the rejection of a claim under her home insurance policy for damage to a wall at her 
property in bad weather.
 
RSA use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to RSA includes 
these agents. Mrs W was supported in her complaint by a representative, references to    
Mrs W include her representative as appropriate.
What happened
In October 2020 part of a garden wall at Mrs Ws property fell over in high winds. The wall 
(which formed the boundary between Mrs W and her neighbour) fell into the garden of the 
neighbour, causing damage to their greenhouse. Mrs W contacted RSA to lodge a claim for 
the damage to the wall. RSA appointed a firm (B) to handle the claim and they visited Mrs 
Ws property to assess the damage. B declined Mrs Ws claim on the grounds that they 
concluded that the main cause of the wall collapsing was gradual damage that had occurred 
over time, not the adverse weather.
Mrs W was unhappy at her claim being declined. She also said her neighbour told her that 
their claim for damage from the collapse of the wall had been accepted by their insurer. Mrs 
W complained to B, who in turn escalated her complaint to RSA.
RSA didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. In their final response they said the weather data for 
the station nearest to Mrs Ws property didnt indicate storm conditions around the date the 
wall collapsed. RSA also said that B found no evidence of storm damage to the wall, but 
they did find that the wall was leaning significantly. B also noted that the wall hadnt been 
maintained and that there were indications of mortar deterioration. 
Based on this, RSA concluded the weather conditions werent the main cause of the damage 
to the wall, but a gradual breakdown of materials and damage to the wall over time. RSA 
also said the policy excluded loss or damage caused by wear and tear. Given their 
conclusions, RSA didnt think what Mrs W had told them about her neighbours insurer 
accepting their claim would change their decision to decline Mrs Ws claim. However, RSA 
did offer Mrs W £50 for the trouble and inconvenience caused by asking her to provide 
information (about her neighbours insurer) that wouldnt change the decline of her claim.
Mrs W then complained to this service. The main element of the complaint was that RSA 
shouldnt have declined her claim, particularly as her neighbour had their claim accepted. 
During our investigation, Mrs W appointed her own loss adjuster (C) to assess the cause of 
the walls collapse. C subsequently provided his view that the collapse of the wall was, at 
least in part, due to the weather conditions at the time as well as the presence of a nearby 
tree. In Cs view this meant that the collapse was due to accidental damage (sudden and 
unexpected damage). C also provided the views of a mortar expert (O) who examined the 
wall and concluded the mortar on the fallen part of the wall was still solid and there were no 
structural defects or cracks on the part of the wall that remained standing. O concluded that 
mortar failure hadnt caused the wall to collapse, rather the damage was caused by a 
combination of strong wind and nearby vegetation.
Our investigator considered the circumstances and evidence and concluded that RSA hadnt 
acted fairly in declining Mrs Ws claim. Based on Os view of the state of the wall, including 
the mortar, he thought the wall was generally in good repair at the time the damage 
occurred. Based on this the investigator thought a combination of strong winds and the tree 
and vegetation could have caused the damage. Given the uncertainty about the cause of the 
collapse, he thought a fair outcome would be (as Mrs Ws neighbour (or their insurer) would 
be paying half of the cost of the repair) for the remaining half of the cost of repair to be split 
50:50 between RSA and Mrs W.
RSA disagreed with the investigators view. They thought the lean of the wall indicated a 
significant issue and as such the collapse was inevitable and neither sudden nor 
unforeseen (unexpected). Also, if a nearby tree was a contributory factor, this would be a 
gradually operating factor (avoidable with appropriate maintenance) and therefore excluded 
by the policy. If mortar failure wasnt a factor in the collapse (as O concluded) and there 
werent storm conditions at the time of the collapse, a well-maintained, structurally sound 
wall would have been able to resist strong wind.
Mrs W also disagreed with the view, because as she thought RSA unfairly declined her claim 
she shouldnt have to bear half of the costs with RSA. She thought the damage should be 
covered as accidental damage because what happened met the definition of such damage. 
Based on the views of C and O, the lean of the wall was naturally occurring and typical of its 
type of construction and the damage wasnt from a lack of maintenance or wear and tear.
In my findings I concluded that a structurally sound wall should have been able to resist 
winds that were strong (but not storm force). That it didnt lead me to conclude it had been 
weakened, over time, by age, lean and the impact of the nearby tree and vegetation. While 
disputed, lack of maintenance and deterioration may also have been factors. Taking these 
points together, I concluded that the strong winds highlighted the weaknesses, leading to the 
collapse of the wall (rather the being the main or dominant cause of the collapse).
On the issue of whether the collapse of the wall should be considered as accidental damage, 
I thought that while the collapse of the wall was sudden, it wasnt unexpected given what I 
concluded about the gradual impact of those factors likely to have caused it to weaken and 
then collapse. As these factors were ones that happened gradually over time (so pre-
existing) I concluded that it was reasonable for RSA to decline Mrs Ws claim.
As I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mrs W. 
The claim was originally considered under the heading of storm damage. However, from the 
evidence Ive seen, it isnt disputed that there werent storm conditions present around the 
time of the walls collapse. But what is at issue here  and where there is disagreement 
between Mrs W and RSA and their respective experts  is (firstly) what is the main (or 
dominant) cause of the damage. And (secondly) whether that cause is one that is covered 
under the terms of Mrs Ws policy.On the first issue, RSA rejected the claim based on Bs report that found no evidence of 
storm damage to the wall, but that the wall was leaning significantly. B also noted the wall 
hadnt been maintained and there were indications of mortar deterioration. C and O dispute 
Bs conclusions. In their view the wall was structurally sound, O concluding the mortar on the 
fallen part of the wall was still solid and there were no structural defects or cracks on the part 
of the wall that remained standing. So, mortar failure hadnt caused the collapse. 
Ive thought about both views. Looking at the photographs, I can see some degree of 
weathering and deterioration in the mortar. Ive noted Os conclusions about the condition of 
the mortar and the part of the wall that remained standing  although the more important 
issue here is the condition of that part of the wall that collapsed.  On balance, I think it may 
have been a factor, particularly as the photographs suggest significant separation of the 
bricks in the fallen part of the wall. This doesnt seem likely to have been the result of the 
impact of the wall falling onto the ground (particularly as the ground appears to be soft).
Theres also disagreement about the degree of lean in the wall, and its impact. B estimated 
this to be significantly greater (up to 40cm) than O (10cm) and concluded that it was a factor 
in the collapse. O stated that a degree of lean in walls of this type and age is common. Ive 
considered both points carefully. Os comments imply that a wall of this type may, over time, 
begin to lean, suggesting something that happens gradually. Ive not seen a clear indication 
of the exact age of the wall, but the comments made about it suggest it is likely to be a 
significant number of years. 
On balance I think that the lean (despite the disagreement about its extent) may have been a 
contributory factor but not the main (or dominant) cause. Its not unreasonable to think that a 
degree of lean will result in some loss of structural integrity that would contribute to eventual 
collapse (combined with other factors).
Mrs W says that the cause of the walls collapse should be considered as accidental 
damage (rather than storm damage) as the collapse was sudden and unexpected. C says 
that a combination of poor weather conditions played a part in the collapse, exacerbated by 
the presence of a nearby tree. O states that: the wall was damaged by a combination of 
strong wind and nearby vegetation
 
Ive considered this point, but I dont agree. While the collapse of the wall was, by definition, 
sudden, I dont think it can be reasonably held to be unexpected given what C and O have 
said about the impact of the nearby tree and vegetation. The photographs show a large tree 
close to the part of the wall that collapsed, as well as other vegetation immediately adjacent 
to the wall. Ive seen no clear evidence about the potential impact that (in particular) the tree 
may have had on the walls integrity (or may have caused, or contributed to, the lean) but for 
C to cite it as a factor in the collapse (and O to refer to vegetation) points to an adverse 
impact on the integrity of the wall. By its nature, any such impact would have been gradual. I 
also agree with Bs view on the tree/vegetation that any impact it had could have been 
mitigated by maintenance.
On the point about strong winds (cited by O) Ive considered the argument from RSA that a 
structurally sound, well-maintained wall should have withstood winds that were strong (but 
not storm force). Given my conclusions about the impact of the tree and vegetation on the 
wall (and its lean) then Im persuaded that had the wall been structurally sound it would have 
been likely to withstand the strong winds around the time of its collapse. That it didnt leads 
me to conclude that it had been weakened, over time, by a combination of age, lean and the 
impact of the nearby tree and vegetation. While disputed, lack of maintenance and 
deterioration may also have been factors. Taking all these points into account, Ive 
concluded that the strong winds highlighted the weaknesses, leading to the collapse of the 
wall (rather the being the main or dominant cause of the collapse).Ive gone on to consider the second issue, the extent to which these potential factors would 
be covered under the policy. In their final response, RSA referred to Bs view that the wall 
hadnt been maintained and that the dominant cause of the collapse was the gradual 
breakdown of materials and the gradual damage the wall suffered over the years. RSA went 
on to refer to an exclusion under the policy for Loss or damage caused by wear and Tear or 
reduction in value.
Looking at the policy document provided by RSA Ive not been able to find the specific 
reference cited by RSA. However, under a heading of General exclusions that apply to your 
policy it states:
You are not covered for:
Loss, damageas a result of a lack of general maintenance
Loss or damage that would not have arisen if there had not been a failure to deal with 
existing damage that would have been noticeable, you were aware of and/or where 
there has been an unreasonable delay in starting to deal with the damage.
In this context, its arguable that the lean of the wall could be considered damage, which 
would have been noticeable. However, while I think this would apply, the issue with the wall 
from RSAs perspective was a lack of maintenance and (implicitly) its weakness as indicated 
by its collapse in strong winds (and that a structurally sound wall should have withstood. not 
noticeable or existing damage).
Mrs W argues that her claim should be covered under the accidental damage. Accidental 
damage is defined under the policy as:
Sudden, unexpected physical damage which has not been caused deliberately.
Ive noted that under a heading What is not covered it states:
24Loss or damage:
That happens gradually over time
Ive considered this point carefully. While the collapse of the wall was sudden I dont think it 
was unexpected given what Ive concluded about the gradual impact of those factors that 
are likely, on the balance of probabilities, to have caused it to weaken and then collapse 
when there were strong (but not storm force) winds. As these factors were ones that 
happened gradually over time (so pre-existing) Ive concluded that it was reasonable for 
RSA to decline Mrs Ws claim.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
  
RSA didnt respond by the date requested.
Mrs W responded to make several points. She thought the surveyor from B adopted an 
unreasonable attitude when they visited and hadnt understood the nature of an older wall 
such as hers. She also thought, prior to the collapse, the wall didnt (visibly) need any repair 
work and the condition of the remainder of the wall didnt indicate the need for maintenance.
 
Mrs W also though the degree of lean of the wall was slight, saying she thought it likely to be 
4cm (not, as B had estimated, 40cm). Mrs W also thought the claim had been declined after looking at weather reports for September, but the damage occurred in the first few days of 
October. She said the weather at the time was ferocious with extreme rainfall and strong 
wind gusts. She thought the wall had become saturated and its location meant it was 
exposed to the wind  She also provided video evidence of the movement of trees near to the 
wall, which she thought would have been a contributory factor in the collapse. Taken 
together, the impact of the rainfall, the strong winds and the movement of the trees caused 
the sudden and unexpected collapse of the wall (which she thought was accidental).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id want to reassure Mrs W that Ive looked carefully at all the points shes made. Having 
done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In coming to that view 
Ive concentrated on the main points shes raised, which Ive considered in turn.
Taking the issue of the lean of the wall first, Mrs W thinks it is likely to have been 4cm at 
most. However, as noted in my provisional decision, Mrs Ws loss adjuster (C) estimated the 
lean to be 10cm. But Id already taken account of the disagreement in my provisional view. 
While Mrs W has given a different figure again, this doesnt change my view that the lean 
may have been a contributory factor  but not the main or dominant cause. So, Ive not 
changed my mind on this point.
The second issue is what Mrs W has said about the weather conditions at the time of (and 
the period leading up to) the collapse. Ive looked again at the weather reports produced 
from the weather source used by this service for the station nearest to Mrs Ws property. Ive 
taken the data for the month leading up to the collapse (the date provided by Mrs W).
 
On wind conditions, the peak gust is significantly below that we would consider to be a 
storm. So, while there may have been strong winds, they werent storm force. While Mrs W 
maintains that the location of the wall made it susceptible to wind, Im not persuaded that  
even if this were the case  the strength of the wind would have been sufficient to cause a 
structurally sound wall to collapse.
On rain, the reports for the same period show little (or no) rain for most of the month leading 
up to the collapse. While there is more rain in the two to three days before the collapse, Im 
not persuaded it would have been sufficient to lead to significant saturation, particularly 
given the low levels of rainfall for the rest of the month before the collapse. 
Thinking about the rainfall and wind data together, Im not persuaded that (even in 
combination) they would have been likely to have caused the collapse of a structurally sound 
wall. So, I havent changed my mind on this point.
The third point made by Mrs W is the impact of nearby tree(s) and vegetation. This was cited 
by both C and O as a factor (along with strong winds) in the collapse of the wall. For their 
part, RSA stated that this would be considered a gradually operating cause (not sudden or 
unexpected). Mrs W acknowledges the likely impact of the tree(s) in causing the wall to 
collapse, but argues that it was the movement of the tree(s) that would have had an impact 
(as opposed to the fact of their presence). While Ive not been able to access the video that 
shes provided, Ive considered the point. But I dont agree. Thats because the presence of 
the tree(s) and vegetation would still be the key point, even allowing for their potential to 
move (sway). I dont think the presence of the tree(s) close to the wall would be either 
sudden or unexpected. Neither would the potential for them to move (sway). So, Im not 
persuaded by Mrs Ws argument and therefore I havent changed my mind on this point.The other points made by Mrs W concern the attitude of Bs surveyor when they visited and 
that they hadnt understood the nature of an older wall. Im not able to say whether this is the 
case as its Mrs Ws opinion. But in reaching my provisional decision I considered the 
evidence in Bs report (alongside the reports from C and O). She also thought that, prior to 
the collapse, the wall didnt (visibly) need any repair work and that the condition of the 
remainder of the wall didnt indicate the need for maintenance.
 
Ive considered Mrs Ws points carefully, together with my conclusions in the provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I noted Os conclusion that the fallen part of the wall was 
still solid and there were no structural defects or cracks on the part of the wall that remained 
standing. And that mortar failure hadnt caused the collapse. However, I considered those 
views when reaching the conclusion that the condition of the wall may have been a factor. 
Particularly as the photographs suggested significant separation of the bricks in the fallen 
part of the wall, which I didnt think likely to have been the result of the impact of the wall 
falling onto the ground (particularly as the ground appeared to be soft). I dont think Mrs Ws 
comments add significantly to the information and evidence on this issue, so Ive not 
changed my mind on this point.
Having considered the points made by Mrs W, my overall conclusion hasnt changed, and 
that RSA acted fairly and reasonably in declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman