DRN-2875233
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his home emergency insurance cover 
with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).
What happened
Mr G made a claim in November 2019, after noticing a leak from the roof above the porch 
entrance to his home. I understand it is a flat roof with a glass dome in the middle. IPA sent 
out a contractor who said the leak was probably coming through around the edge of the 
glass dome, as it should have had lead flashing around it which was missing. On the basis of 
this, IPA refused to do any repairs to the roof, as it said the leak was a result of the roof not 
being installed correctly, which is excluded from cover under the policy.  
IPA invited Mr G to get his own report, if he disagreed. Mr G got his own report which said 
there was no evidence of faulty workmanship, as the dome was not meant to have lead 
flashing (and Mr G also confirmed this with the manufacturer) but a seal at the base of the 
dome was possibly breached and letting in water. Mr Gs contractor quoted £385 to repair 
this. 
IPA then said the policy only covers emergency repairs caused by storm damage and 
excludes repairs required as a result of normal wear and tear. IPA says that re-sealing the 
roof would be classed as routine maintenance rather than an emergency repair and so still 
refused to cover the repairs. 
Mr G is very unhappy with this and has made a number of submissions in support of his 
complaint, which Ive summarised below:
IPAs engineer found some discarded lead flashing on the roof and wrongly assumed 
it should have been attached to the dome. The manufacturer confirmed lead flashing 
is not required. It was only after it was presented with this evidence that IPA changed 
its reason for not covering the claim to it being wear and tear and that the policy only 
covers storm damage. 
IPA wasted his time asking him to get a report and then taking an unreasonable 
amount of time responding to him.
The weeks preceding his claim there was substantial bad weather but the policy 
covers leaks irrespective of the weather. The policy is clear, it refers to cover for  
roofing problems" and then gives a non-exhaustive list of examples that would be 
covered, inter alia leaks". 
The roof was guaranteed for 30 years and the fact it has failed within the first four/five 
years would be deemed to be a sudden and unforeseen event and means it cannot 
be considered to be normal wear and tear. 
In any event, re-sealing is not routine maintenance.
The seal could have failed following impact from some tiles from the main roof falling 
on it, exceptionally heavy rain or freezing but the policy doesnt require this to be 
established. 
Despite many requests he has not been given a copy of the contractors report from 
November 2019 when IPA first attended. 
Due to IPAs delays, the damage has got worse. He has had to catch water in 
buckets and there is a large area of damaged ceiling. 
He has had previous problems with this policy with IPA, and says there is a 
is evidence of lack of care and a payment avoidance culture. 
Mr G wants the roof repaired and has also asked that IPA pay for the repairs of the internal 
damage caused by the water leak; and compensation for the time he has had to spend 
chasing this matter and the inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and recommended that it be upheld. He 
recommended that IPA attend to inspect the roof again and arrange for the repair, and pay 
Mr G £200 compensation. 
IPA accepted the investigators assessment in principle and sent a contractor out to Mr Gs 
property in November 2020. He apparently said scaffolding was needed, which Mr G 
disputed, as it is a relatively low level porch and three roofers have been happy to go on it 
without scaffolding. IPA subsequently agreed that Mr G could get the work done and it would 
consider the costs. In the meantime, IPA paid the £200 compensation.
Mr G provided a quote for fixing the roof and re-plastering and painting inside for £2,450, 
and one for just repairing the roof of £2,850. The work required to repair the roof has 
increased significantly due to the delay in carrying out the repairs. 
IPA says the internal damage was not caused by its actions, as the original leak would have 
caused some internal damage anyway which would not be covered under this policy. It says 
this would be covered by Mr Gs buildings & contents insurance. The quote (of £2,450) has 
not been broken down but it said it would pay the policy claim limit of £1,500 for the roof 
repairs, which is more than it needed to do, as the policy only provides for a temporary 
repair.
The investigator said he thought this was fair, as whilst IPA should have accepted the claim 
when it was made, it does not mean it is responsible for the total cost of the repairs required 
now. He said Mr G was aware that if the roof seal wasnt fixed, it would lead to further issues 
and he had a duty to mitigate his losses and could have had the repairs done while the 
dispute with IPA was ongoing to minimise the damage done to his home.   
Mr G did not accept the investigators assessment. He has made a number of points in 
response to the investigator, which Ive summarised below: 
IPA was aware the leak was going to get worse if it was not repaired promptly and 
yet it delayed matters unreasonably, including after the investigator said it should 
meet the cost of the repairs. 
The policy claim limit, of £1,500, is irrelevant in these circumstances where a large 
part of the repair costs are due solely to delays on IPAs part.  
S13A of The Insurance Act 2015 provides that insurers who delay insurance 
payments are liable to pay damages. The law is abundantly clear, IPA has to pay 
over and above the policy liability for the further damages arising from the delay they 
caused in making the payment to repair at the onset.
He was never told to get the repairs done and just because he was aware of the 
problem doesnt mean he had the money to pay for it himself. He did everything he 
could to mitigate the damage done by providing the evidence to support his claim as 
soon as possible and regularly chasing up IPA.
Another investigator looked at the matter and said IPA should pay the full cost of the repairs. IPA did not agree with this and so, as the matter has not been resolved, it has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy provides cover for certain specified emergency events, including: 
Roofing - sudden and unforeseen roofing problems such as leaks or tiles blown off during a 
storm or bad weather.  
We will pay a maximum of £1,500 including VAT for call out, labour, parts and materials, 
to complete temporary fixes (or if a similar cost a permanent fix).
IPA has said there was no sudden or unforeseen event, such as a storm, which led to the 
failure of the roof seal and the leak is a result of wear and tear. 
I do not agree with IPA that the above wording clearly requires any roof problem to be the 
result of a storm, or that there has to be a sudden or unforeseen event that causes the 
roofing problem.   
It seems to me that the above policy wording can be read as meaning that the roof problems 
do not have to be the direct result of a storm and the reference to storm or bad weather is 
only an example of a roofing problem that would be covered. It can also be read as meaning 
that leaks are covered, without reference to any particular cause, as the reference to storm 
or bad weather seems to only relate to the second example of a roofing problem that would 
be covered, i.e. tiles that have been blown off.  
The wording above does require the roofing problem to be sudden and unforeseen (rather 
than the problem having been caused by a sudden and unforeseen event). The policy also 
excludes claims that are the result of normal wear and tear. 
The leak was clearly unforeseen and sudden as far as Mr G was concerned, as he could not 
have predicted or expected it. The roof was also apparently guaranteed for 30 years and Mr 
G was therefore not unreasonably expecting it to last more than four/five years without 
leaking. Theres no evidence of the cause of the leak, other than that a seal has failed. Just 
because no obvious event has been identified, I do not consider this means it must, by 
default, be the result of wear and tear. As Mr G has said, there may have been a number of 
factors that resulted in the seal failing (such as freezing, previous impact damage etc). 
Overall, therefore I am satisfied that this was an unforeseen and sudden roofing problem 
that is covered by the policy and IPA should have accepted the claim when it received       
Mr Gs contractors report.  If it had done so, the cost of the repairs would have been 
considerably less than they are now and the internal damage would have been less.  
Mr G says that as a result of The Insurance Act 2015, IPA is liable for any resultant damage 
to his property caused by the delay in it meeting his claim. The Act does provide that a 
consumer can claim damages for late payment of an insurance claim. However, this service 
has always had the power to make a money award for financial loss resulting from any 
wrongdoing by the insurer, over and above payment of the insurance claim itself, as well as 
an award of compensation. This would include the cost of putting right damage to a property 
that might not otherwise be covered under the insurance policy but which has arisen as a 
direct result of something an insurer has done wrong.I have to consider therefore whether it is fair and reasonable that IPA pay the additional 
repair costs for the roof and for the internal damage as a result of its wrongful refusal of the 
claim.  
IPA says there would have been some internal damage anyway as a natural result of the 
leak and Mr T can claim on his home insurance for any such damage.  
It is correct that some water would have penetrated the internal walls and there would have 
bene some damage when Mr T first reported the leak. However, if a leak is stopped 
relatively quickly, it is often possible for any internal surfaces to dry out and often only  
require some cosmetic repair. This leak has been left for over a year before the new quote 
was received. It is not difficult to be persuaded that the internal damage will be considerably 
worse due to the fact the leak was not repaired soon after it was reported in November 2019. 
Similarly, the work required to mend the roof will logically be more extensive, as a result of 
the delay. 
Mr G also had a responsibility to mitigate the loss and I have to decide if it is reasonable to 
have expected him to do so by having the repairs done pending resolution of the complaint, 
and/or by claiming on his home insurance for the internal damage. 
Mr G was clearly aware of the leak and that it was getting worse. He accepts this and indeed 
acknowledged it to us in July 2020, but also says, this doesnt mean he had the money to 
pay for this himself and was never told that he should get the repair carried out himself. Mr G 
also says he didnt know how long this matter would go on for, or how much more expensive 
the repairs would be when it was finally resolved. Mr G says he did all he could to mitigate 
the problem by promptly providing IPA with the information required to progress his claim. I 
also note there was tarpaulin over the roof. It is not clear if Mr G put that up or IPA but Mr G 
says he has had to repeatedly re-fix the tarpaulin as it gets dislodged in the wind.
Having considered all the evidence, it seems to me that IPA had the greater responsibility  
here. If IPA had have accepted the claim when it received Mr Gs contractors report, then 
the extent of the damage would have been less than it is now. And I do not think IPA is 
entitled to expect Mr G to make a home insurance claim (and incur an excess payment and 
possibly increased future premiums) for damage that is due to its delay in accepting a valid 
claim. I do therefore consider IPA should meet the full cost of the repairs, irrespective of the 
policy claim limit.  Those costs are probably now higher than the last quotes and so the 
parties will have to liaise and IPA can either do the work or reimburse Mr G for the costs, 
whichever he prefers. If Mr G chooses to have the work done himself, he will need to provide 
suitable quotes or an invoice for the work. 
I also agree with the investigator that some compensation is also warranted and agree that 
£200 is reasonable for the trouble caused to Mr G by the handling of the claim. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA and require it to do the following: 1. carry out the roof and internal repair works required as a result of the leak, or pay the 
cost of the repairs upon production of suitable proof of the cost, whichever Mr G 
prefers; and
2. pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
the claim (if it has not already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman