DRN-1284249
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave her loans she says she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
This complaint is about 19 loans Sunny provided to Miss D between October 2017 and 
September 2018. All loans were due to be paid back in six monthly instalments and ranged 
between £50 and £900.
Heres a table setting out details of the first six loans:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
Amount
1 04/10/2017 12/10/2017 6 £350.00
2 17/12/2017 21/12/2017 6 £150.00
3 19/12/2017 21/12/2017 6 £150.00
4 24/12/2017 29/12/2017 6 £500.00
5 25/12/2017 29/12/2017 6 £200.00
6 19/01/2018 25/01/2018 6 £250.00
 
Miss D mainly said that she got into so much debt with these loans that she missed 
household bills and was late paying them - which caused a lot of anxiety, stress and 
sleepless nights. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say loans 1  
5 were unfair. But he felt that Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 6  or any of the loans that 
followed. He set out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right for Miss D. 
Sunny mostly disagreed with our adjudicator and said it didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. It had already written off part of the outstanding balances on loans 18 and 19 when 
Miss D first complained. But in response to our adjudicators view Sunny said it may have 
been prudent to have done things differently after loan 14. And so it offered to uphold the 
complaint about loans 15-19.Miss D told us she didnt want to accept this offer.
Sunny later made a revised offer to uphold Miss Ds complaint from loan 12. But as this still 
falls short of what our adjudicator recommended Miss D feels this offer still doesn't go far 
enough. So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss D. It asked her for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Miss Ds credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that the first five loans shouldnt 
have been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including what Miss D said 
about her income and expenses when she took out these loans. For loans 1 - 4, I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt enough to be able to say Sunny 
shouldnt have provided these loans to Miss D. It was still early in the lending relationship 
and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend these loans. 
Even though loan 5 appeared affordable on the figures Miss D provided about her finances, 
I think Sunny should have looked further into Miss Ds circumstances when she took it out, 
given she borrowed £700 over the course of Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, soon after 
paying loans 2 and 3. But I havent seen anything in the information available to me which 
shows Sunny would have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint about loans 1 - 5.
But I think that by loan 6, Sunny should have realised that Miss D wasnt managing to repay 
her borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Looking at Miss Ds borrowing pattern I can see that she asked to take out loan 6 just three 
weeks or so after paying loans 4 and 5.
This followed a track record that Sunny could see of borrowing quickly after repaying 
previous loans early  Miss D took out loan 2 just over 2 months after she repaid loan 1, and 
she took out loan 4 just three days after paying loans 2 and 3 and loan 5 the next day. 
Loan 6 was now the third time in a row that shed soon borrowed again after shed repaid a 
loan early. 
Although the loan amounts went up and down, Miss D was repeatedly borrowing shortly 
after paying back loans which she was paying off, sometimes within just a few days of taking 
them out.   
Paying loans early doesn't mean that Miss D was able to do so in a way that was 
sustainable  I think this record of borrowing suggests that she was having problems 
managing her money and couldnt afford to pay back what she had borrowed without 
borrowing again.
So I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to think that it was likely Miss D would be able 
sustainably to repay loan 6 or any further loans and it shouldnt have provided this loan, or 
any further loans to her. 
I think that Miss D lost out when Sunny provided her with loan 6 and continued to lend to her 
after that because: 
 these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
 the number of loans that Miss D took out was likely to have negative implications on her 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 6 onwards.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Sunny has said, including 
comments made in response to our adjudicator. But this doesnt change my overall view. For 
the reasons I've explained, I think borrowing and repaying this number of loans early 
suggests to me that Miss Ds finances were not in a stable position and she was struggling 
to manage her debt. Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Miss D loans 6 to 19, so it should:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Miss D towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not 
including anything already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss D which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss D originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny may  if it chooses to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal it wrote 
off as part of a redress scheme.
D) Sunny should pay any remaining refund to Miss D. If there is no refund left and still a 
balance outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for Sunny to pursue 
this further.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Ds borrowing for loans 6 to 19 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely from Miss Ds 
credit file. If Sunny sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint about loans 6 - 19. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out 
above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman