DRN-3443263
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2018, Mr D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr D decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In August 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ds behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
Mr D would make a profit from year seven.
Over the lifetime of the scheme the panels would make a considerable amount of 
money.
Mr D would only need to pay £23.29 each month in the first year towards the finance 
as the feed-in-tariff would be approximately £56.38 each month, year by year 
increasing meaning he would have to pay less towards the finance repayments.
Shawbrook acknowledged the complaint but did not issue a full response to it. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The system is not producing the figures stated in the quotation and Mr D is suffering 
a significant monthly deficit.
Mr D was told the financial benefits he would receive from the solar panels would 
cover the majority of the finance repayments and he would only have to contribute 
approximately £23 per month for the first couple of years before the system would 
start to make a profit. It was this representation which induced him into the purchase, 
but in reality, he is having to contribute £64.91 per month. 
The CMC was dissatisfied with the time taken to assess the complaint and that Mr D 
was not contacted for any comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr D could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed against 
P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The consumer says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be self-
financing from year seven.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered this, 
along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
previously told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the 
representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any 
benefits of the system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Ive also noted that the CMCs letter of the complaint to Shawbrook appears to support that 
the quote formed a central part of the sales process. Some of what Mr D has said he was 
told does match up with what is shown in the quote, for example that from around year 
seven the benefits of the solar panels would exceed the cost of the loan each year.Having thought carefully about the available evidence,  Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events  when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that the Consumer was told that the cost of the system was 
£9.,553.95. The quote sets this out clearly. The credit agreement would also have set this 
out along with the monthly payment, total amount of credit and the total amount payable.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the quote made it clear that 
although the cost of the system was £9,553.95, it would cost Mr D more than this as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Mr D have said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments from year seven. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to 
decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr D could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr D could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £144.97, which results in an average monthly income of £12.08. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of around £79.65. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr D could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £240.02 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr D the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £676.59. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £79.65. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system (including FIT payments and savings). It 
then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£79.65, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefit he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT payment would 
cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr D that the system would be self-funding from year seven. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did make a representation that the systems benefits 
would cover the annual loan repayments from year seven. However, those benefits are a 
combination of FIT income and energy savings on Mr Ds bills. So, because the FIT income 
alone would not cover the loan repayments, the remainder would have to be met by Mr D. 
Albeit that, based on the assumptions made in the quote, this would be offset by the savings 
Mr D makes on his energy bills, compared to what he wouldve been paying had he not 
bought the solar panels and optional extras. 
So, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at the meeting which sets out that 
there would be a difference between the expected income and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Mr D could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr D that the system would pay for itself by 
year 16, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,249 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr D FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated more each year than estimated by P at the point of sale. So, Im satisfied that the 
system is performing as expected.
I can also see that Mr D received FIT payments of £213.94 for the electricity generated up to 
11 December 2018. Mr Ds system became eligible for FIT payments from 1 February 2018. 
So, these payments were for less than one year. But exceed what P had told Mr D that he 
would receive in the first year, which was £144.97. So, it appears that what Mr P was told 
about the FIT income he would receive in year one was accurate. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017to calculate the utility 
price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 2020 
and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think this 
may explain why Mr D hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the installation. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr D couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr D entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr D to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman