DRN-2421622
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was in Mr J's name only 
and covered him if he couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint but, as Mr and Mrs J didn't agree, the 
complaint was passed to me to consider. 
My provisional decision
I didnt agree with our adjudicator and thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Mr J says our adjudicators conclusions werent based on fact and that Halifax hasnt 
provided any documentation. Its not surprising that Halifax doesnt have a full record 
of the sale, given it took place so long ago. And our adjudicator came to his 
conclusion based on the information that was available, including what we know 
about the way Halifax sold PPI in and around 1995. We are an informal complaints 
resolution service and in cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr J also says Halifax made a mistake in 2012 when it told him he did not have a PPI 
policy attached to this mortgage. But I dont need to make a finding about this 
because Im minded to uphold the complaint. Let me explain my reasons.
Its not clear whether advice was given so, to be fair to Mr and Mrs J, Ive considered 
the case to the higher standard of an advised sale. Halifax needed to check whether 
the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. After considering this very carefully, I dont 
think, on balance, that the PPI was suitable, based on Mr and Mrs Js circumstances 
at the time.
Mr J told us he would have received generous sick pay from his employer, and that 
he had the benefit of a permanent health insurance scheme (PHI). Hes not been 
able to provide detailed evidence of what he was entitled to 25 years ago. But hes 
been consistent in his testimony that he would have received 12 months sick pay. I 
think, most probably, this would have been six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay. Hes also been consistent in his testimony that he had the benefit of a PHI. 
Hes been able to provide something which shows that, in all likelihood, he qualified 
for membership of his employers PHI scheme. Unfortunately, hes not been able to 
provide any detail about the scheme. He recalls it would have paid him 80% of his 
salary if he was unable to work due to sickness or an accident and that this was 
probably payable after the first six months of absence and would continue until 
retirement.
Mr J would probably have received full pay for the first six months of absence, 
followed by around 80% pay until he returned to work, or he retired. So he would 
have received an income close to what he was earning when he was working. Even if 
the PHI was not quite as generous as Mr J recalls, he and his wife had some savings 
and Mrs J had recently started working, although her income wasnt considered when 
they took out the mortgage.
Taking all this into account, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs J most likely didnt have 
enough need for PPI. I think it most likely that if Halifax had asked Mr and Mrs J 
about their existing arrangements, it wouldnt have recommended the policy and Mr 
and Mrs J wouldnt have taken it.
I thought Halifax should put Mr and Mrs J back in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI.
Halifax agreed to make an offer in line with my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs J said they 
wish Halifax had followed this up in 2012 rather than saying that they didnt have PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.
Im pleased that Halifax has agreed to pay compensation in line with my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J still feel frustrated that Halifax didnt identify that they had PPI 
when a CMC complained on their behalf in 2012. But my award includes interest on the PPI 
premiums they paid up until the date Halifax issues its refund. So they havent made a 
financial loss as a result of any mistake Halifax made in responding to their complaint in 
2012.
Taking that into account, I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs J in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what they got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs J as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman