DRN-1696843
The complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance ('PPI') policy in 2001 when she applied for a store card.
What happened
Mrs G complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 2001. It was added to her 
Evans store card account which she applied for in the store. She said PPI was never 
mentioned so she didnt know it was added to her account. She had sick pay and no savings 
but her husband could help her make repayments, so she didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs G disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs G's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs G's complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA produced 
a copy of Mrs G's store card application. I can see there was a tick box stating Yes, I would 
like to protect my account with Account Cover This box is signed on Mrs Gs application, 
but I noted she declined other offers on the form - so I think the form was diligently 
completed with the things she wanted and didnt want either by her or on her behalf. And as 
she separately signed the form and the PPI box, I can reasonably assume she checked the 
details were correct. So I think her signature means AXA probably made it clear that Mrs G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she may not be able to remember this.
I noted Mrs G was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so AXA had to make 
sure Mrs G received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs G about the cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong because 
she told us she had no savings but good employee benefits in a secure job, so I think the 
PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition to her sick pay if she wasnt able to 
work or had lost her job.Mrs G said she could rely on her husband to help her make repayments. I do appreciate her 
point but there is no guarantee she could rely on this support at some unknown point in the 
future. So I still think the PPI was useful for her.
AXA should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). I 
don't know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mrs G was affected by the main 
exclusions. So - even if she'd been given a full list of the exclusions - I don't think it would 
have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional and Mrs G was 
probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman