DRN-1862083
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc caused delay when she made a claim 
under her car insurance policy. Mrs P is also unhappy with the repairs carried out to her car.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs P was involved in an incident and she made a claim to her insurer, 
AXA. 
In October 2019 she complained to AXA about the delay in dealing with her claim. In 
January and February 2020 Mrs P raised further complaints that AXA failed to update her on 
the repairs, continued to delay her claim, and that not all incident related damaged had been 
repaired. 
In January 2020 AXA upheld the first of Mrs Ps complaints. It paid Mrs P £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AXA waived the excess Mrs P would have normally had to pay of £300 even though liability 
hadnt been settled. And it agreed to pay the costs of the MOT which was due in December 
2019.
Mrs P took her car to a dealership garage for the MOT. She was advised that the car failed 
the MOT due to the engine mount being damaged. They told Mrs P that the damage was 
most likely incident related. But AXAs approved repairer said it wasnt incident related 
damage. 
Mrs P contacted us about all her complaints. AXA agreed we could investigate all of the 
issues Mrs P had raised. 
Our investigator thought AXA had caused undue delay of four months in arranging repairs of 
Mrs Ps car. So she thought AXA should pay £150 compensation in addition to the £200 it 
already paid. 
She also recommended AXA pay a fine Mrs P incurred of £80 because her car wasnt taxed 
in December 2019. Mrs P couldnt tax her car as it didnt have a current MOT. The 
investigator thought that had AXA not caused the delay, Mrs P wouldnt have incurred the 
fine. 
She also recommended AXA appoint an independent engineer to assess whether the engine 
mount damage was incident related, and it should take into account the comments from the 
dealership garage. 
AXA agreed to accept the investigators recommendations. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think AXA is responsible for undue delay. Mrs P complained about a failure to progress her 
claim in October 2019, which AXA acknowledged. But it then failed to progress her claim 
until January 2020 and it took a further month for Mrs Ps car to be repaired by an approved 
repairer. 
Mrs Ps car was due to be taxed in December 2019, but this wasnt possible as it didnt have 
a current MOT. I think if AXA had dealt promptly with Mrs Ps claim, its more likely than not 
Mrs P wouldnt have incurred a penalty for failing to tax her car. So I think its fair that AXA 
should reimburse Mrs P for the amount, adding interest from the date she paid the fine to the 
date AXA reimburses her. 
As there is a dispute as to the incident related damage, I think AXA should arrange for an 
independent assessor (IA) to report whether the damage to the engine mount is incident 
related or not. 
I understand Mrs P doesnt agree with the investigators recommendations to put things 
right. I think the compensation AXA paid of £200 goes some way, but I dont think its 
enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. Taking everything into account, I 
think an overall compensation award of £350 is fair and in line with awards we give for 
similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the 
following:
Arrange for an IA to report on whether the damage to the engine mount was 
incident related. 
Reimburse Mrs P for the penalty she paid for not having taxed her car due to not 
having a MOT. AXA should pay interest on the amount from the date Mrs P paid 
to the date of reimbursement at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Pay Mrs P £150 compensation in addition to the £200 its already paid her. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman