DRN-3648985
The complaint
Mr M and Ms N complain about the mortgage advice they were given by an appointed 
representative of Openwork Limited (Openwork). They say the adviser recommended an 
unsuitable mortgage.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr M emailed Openwork to ask for it to help find a new mortgage. Mr M said 
he wanted a mortgage on a joint borrower  sole proprietor (JBSP) basis. In other words 
the new mortgage was to be in both his and Ms Ns names. However, the title deeds of the 
property were to be in Ms Ns name only.
The broker recommended a mortgage with Santander. Mr M and Ms N took the brokers 
advice and applied for the mortgage. Mr M and Ms N complain that at the point they were 
due to exchange contracts on the property they were buying they were informed that 
Santander wouldnt proceed with the mortgage if the deeds to the property were to be in 
Ms Ns name only. Thats because it didnt offer JBSP mortgages.
Mr M says he and Ms N had to abandon the purchase even though they had already sold 
the property they were living in at the time and had agreed to move out. He says thats 
because a purchase in joint names would mean theyd had to pay significantly more stamp 
duty then a purchase in Ms Ns name alone, and they couldnt raise the extra money they 
needed for that at such short notice. Mr M says that abandoning the purchase caused him 
and Ms N significant inconvenience and costs.
Mr M and Ms N went on to buy another property in January 2021. They did this using a 
mortgage they got from Santander. 
Openwork said it didnt do anything wrong. It acknowledged that Mr M wanted a JBSP 
mortgage when he first contacted the broker. However, it said that Mr M also told him that a 
purchase in joint names would work too. It says the broker spoke to Mr M on the phone and 
told Mr M that the deeds needed to be in joint names if Mr M and Ms N were to proceed with 
the Santander mortgage. He says Mr M agreed to this as Santander was willing to lend them 
all the money they wanted.
Mr M and Ms N disagreed and brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said he wasnt present for any 
conversations that took place during the mortgage application, and recordings of the relevant 
phone calls werent available. Although he acknowledged that Mr M asked for mortgage on a 
JBSP basis in two emails he could see that in one of those emails Mr M also said:
The purchase is in [Ms N]s name only as my name is on the Deed of my parents property, 
although the property is subject to a Declaration of Trust. That allows us to avoid the uplift in 
Stamp Duty should we both be on the Deeds of the new property.
So our investigator thought that Mr M and Ms N were happy to get a property where they 
deeds would be in both of their names. He said the broker wasnt a tax adviser or a solicitor, 
so it wasnt the brokers responsibility to give Mr M and Ms N correct advice about stamp 
duty. Thats relevant here as the declaration of trust referred to above didnt allow Mr M and 
Ms N to avoid the extra stamp duty if they proceeded with a purchase in joint names.
So while our investigator accepted that the broker recommended an unsuitable lender for a 
JBSP application, he thought that the broker and Mr M both contributed to the unsuccessful 
mortgage application. In the circumstances, he didnt think it would be fair to require 
Openwork to compensate Mr M and Ms N for their costs in relation to the failed purchase.
Our investigator also said that the evidence suggested that Mr M and Ms N had previously 
completed a mortgage application with another provider before they approached Openwork, 
and that theyd paid for a valuing the property in connection with that application. So he 
didnt think it would be fair to ask Openwork to refund those costs. He also said that the 
evidence suggested that Mr M and Ms N were informed by their solicitor that the purchase 
could proceed on a joint deed basis. So he didnt think it was fair that Openwork should 
refund Mr M and Ms Ns conveyancing costs.
However our investigator thought that it would have been more suitable for Openwork to 
recommend a JBSP mortgage, so he thought it should refund the mortgage advice fee of 
£595 even though he accepted that Mr M and Ms N had signed documentation to say that 
the fee would be non-refundable regardless of a successful application.
Mr M and Ms N disagreed and asked for their complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed on to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2022. I explained why I thought Mr M and Ms Ns 
complaint should be upheld in part. 
I said that I disagreed with the conclusion our investigator had reached. 
I considered the relevant emails between Mr M and the broker covering Mr Ms instructions.
I said that in response to the email referred to above I could see that the broker wrote:
Just to be clear is it a case that you want the deed of the new property in [Ms N]s name, but 
both be on the Mortgage?.... is that correct?
Mr M replied:
To confirm:
The Deed is in [Ms Ns] name only but we are both on the mortgage.
I also considered what the broker had said about Mr Ms circumstances (including that he 
thought the lending amount was the most important thing for Mr M), and the phone 
conversation in which he said Mr M agreed to proceed with the Santander mortgage, even 
though it could only be provided on a joint mortgage basis - not a JBSP basis. 
I noted that Openwork hasnt been able to provide a recording of the brokers phone 
conversations with Mr M or any other evidence to demonstrate that the broker told Mr M that 
the Santander mortgage could only be provided on a joint mortgage basis. I said I found that 
surprising given the significance of the potential change to Mr Ms instructions.I considered what Mr M told us about his conversations with the broker too. Mr M confirmed 
that he had a number of phone calls with the broker about the mortgage. However, he was 
adamant that the broker didnt tell him that the Santander mortgage wasnt on a JBSP basis. 
Mr M told us that he only found out the Santander mortgage wasnt on a JBSP basis at
the point he and Ms N were due to exchange contracts on the property in September 2020.
At that point Mr M says he and Ms N were faced with having to pay a significant amount 
more stamp duty than theyd anticipated (which they couldnt) or abandon the purchase. So 
they withdrew from the purchase.
I said I couldnt be certain what was said in the phone calls between the broker and Mr M at 
the heart of this complaint, but I thought it was unlikely that Mr M and Ms N would have 
proceeded with the purchase, only to pull out at the point of exchange, if they knew that the 
mortgage the broker had recommended to them wasnt suitable for them. Mr M told us that 
the property they were buying was their dream property, and that theyd already sold their 
current property and agreed to move out. So pulling out of the purchase meant they had to 
make significant changes to their plans including moving into rented accommodation with 
their family until they found another property. I didnt think it was likely that they wouldve put 
themselves in that position by ignoring what the broker told them or failing to tell their 
solicitor about the basis on which Santander was willing to lend. 
So on balance, I thought it was likely that the broker didnt do enough to make it clear that 
the Santander mortgage was only available on a joint mortgage - not a JBSP - basis. So I 
said I intended to uphold this complaint. In reaching this conclusion I said I considered the 
fact that Mr M and Ms N went on to get another property in January 2021 with a mortgage 
from Santander. I took into account the reasons why Ms N said they did that. She said that 
when they withdrew from the property purchase they were very conscious of the mortgage 
market at that time (in the covid-19 pandemic) and the time it was taking lenders to evaluate 
and process mortgage applications. As theyd spent over six months securing a mortgage 
with Santander for the maximum amount they could borrow Ms N says they felt they had no 
alternative but to proceed with a Santander mortgage on the basis of a joint mortgage with 
the deeds in both names. Ms N told us that in taking that decision theyd had to re-evaluate 
the type of house they could afford to purchase and the location.
As I was minded to uphold the complaint, I went on to consider what I thought Openwork 
should do to resolve this complaint.
In considering those costs I noted that Mr M and Ms N told us that initially they thought they 
had to move out of their existing property in September 2020. So when the purchase of the 
property at the heart of this complaint fell through they moved their furniture into a number of 
storage units. 
However, circumstances changed, and they didnt move out of their existing property (the 
property they had sold) until 4 December 2020.
Mr M and Ms N say they moved into temporary rental accommodation between 2 and 11 
December 2020. However, theyve told us that they couldnt find another short-term rental 
property for the rest of the period between 12 December 2020 and 7 January 2021 (when 
they moved into their new property) and had to move from friend to friend.
storage costs
Mr M and Ms N provided us with a number of invoices to cover these storage costs. Those 
invoices cover various dates and storage units. Some of the invoices covered periods 
beyond 7 January 2021 (the date when they moved into their new property).I thought it was fair and reasonable that Openwork reimburse Mr M and Ms N for their 
storage costs up to 7 January 2021. I said I was conscious that they didnt move out of their 
existing property until 4 December. However, I thought it was unlikely that they would have 
moved their furniture into storage before this if they didnt think they had to. 
I asked Mr M and Ms N to provide us with invoices to cover their storage costs up to 7 
January 2021 only.
solicitor costs
I thought it was fair and reasonable for Openwork to reimburse Mr M and Ms N for their 
solicitor costs in relation to the purchase of the property at the heart of this complaint. I 
asked them to provide us with evidence of the amount they actually paid for this as theyd 
previously provided us with a quotation.
temporary accommodation costs
I said Mr M and Ms N provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with invoices for two 
Airbnb rentals. 
Those costs were as follows:
02/12/2020 - £67.21
04/12/2020 to 11/12/2020 - £463.96
I thought it was fair and reasonable that Openwork should reimburse Mr M and Ms N for 
those costs.
relocation charge
I said that Mr M and Ms N provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with an invoice dated 
04/12/2020 for £395. The invoice refers to relocation charges and appeared to cover Mr M 
and Ms Ns costs moving into temporary accommodation. I thought it was fair and 
reasonable that Openwork reimbursed Mr M and Ms N for those costs.
transportation costs
Mr M and Mrs N provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with invoices for various taxis. 
Ms N told us that they related to trips to work and school from their temporary 
accommodation. I said it wasnt clear to me that Mr M and Mrs N were unable to get public 
transport on these occasions but I thought it was likely that they could have given that the 
temporary accommodation was in London. So I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to require Openwork to reimburse Mr M and Mrs N for those costs.
mortgage fee
Mr M and Mrs N have provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with an invoice dated 
06/08/2020 for £595.
I said the mortgage adviser fee agreement Mr M and Mrs N signed on 6 August 2020 said 
that the fee was payable once their loan application has been submitted to a lender 
(which it was in September 2020). The agreement went on to say that if the loan didnt 
proceed to completion for whatever reason a fee of £595 would still be due. 
I said I was also conscious that Openwork have told us that after Mr M and Ms N complained 
to Openwork they decided to use the same broker theyd complained about to arrange another mortgage with Santander. Openwork says that broker didnt charge Mr M and Ms N 
for his services in connection with that purchase.
So I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Openwork to reimburse Mr 
M and Ms N for the mortgage fee. 
building survey
Mr M and Ms N provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with an invoice for £1,996 dated 
14 July 2020 for a survey. The invoice says the surveyor was instructed by the lender Mr M 
and Mrs N approached before Santander. Having considered the available evidence 
(including the content of an email from Mr N to the Openwork broker dated 3 August 2020 in 
which he said The house has been valued by HSBC at the value of the offer and a full 
structural survey has been carried out already,) I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to require Openwork to reimburse Mr M and Ms N for these costs.
trouble and upset
I was persuaded that Mr M and Ms N were extremely inconvenienced by the broker not 
doing enough to make it clear that the Santander mortgage wasnt on a JBSP basis. As a 
result of withdrawing from the purchase at the heart of this complaint Mr M and Ms N had to 
find another property and get another mortgage. I said I understood why they felt under 
pressure to do this quickly given that they had already sold their home and agreed to move 
out by the time they withdrew from the purchase. Mr M and Ms N said they were very 
stressed by what happened, and that purchasing another property all took time.
Mr M and Ms N also told us that they (and their family) had to stay with friends over the 
Christmas 2020 period as they were unable to get temporary accommodation for the whole 
period. Theyve told us that they werent able to cook in the temporary accommodation they 
were staying in and had to get takeaways every day.
In the circumstances I thought Openwork should pay Mr M and Ms N £1,000 compensation 
for the stress and inconvenience they were caused by Openworks actions in this case. I 
said I was conscious that Mr M and Ms N were likely to be disappointed by this, but I was 
satisfied that the £1,000 offered fairly reflected the substantial distress and inconvenience 
Openworks mistake caused them. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M and Ms N and Openwork both responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr M and Ms N didnt make any comments on my decision. They provided us with evidence 
to show that their solicitor costs for the failed purchase were £2,340 (inclusive of VAT). They 
didnt provide me with new invoices for their storage costs as requested. However, they set 
out more information about the amounts they wanted to be reimbursed for.
Openwork noted that my provisional decision said that Mr M and Ms N got a mortgage with 
Santander in January 2021 on a different property. They said that as they didnt proceed with 
a JBSP mortgage at this time, this couldnt have been their highest priority. I appreciate 
Openworks point of view on this point. However, I have nothing to add to what I already said 
in my provisional decision. I made it clear in that decision that Id considered Ms Ns 
explanation for why they did this and think that explains why they eventually decided to 
proceed with a Santander mortgage on a joint mortgage basis with the deeds in both names
after they decided not to proceed with the mortgage at the heart of this complaint.After this I said that I thought Openwork should pay Mr M and Ms N £7,152.05 in total to 
resolve this complaint. That covered the following:
Storage Costs until 07/01/21: £2,885.88
Temporary accommodation costs: £531.17
Solicitor costs: £2,340
Relocation charge: £395
Trouble and upset: £1,000
Mr M and Ms N said they were willing to accept £7,152.05 to resolve this complaint.
Openwork said it had nothing further to add and no queries on costing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any substantive comments on my provisional findings I see no 
reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision. I can see that both 
parties agree that £7,152.05 total compensation covers Mr M and Ms N for all the costs I 
said Openwork should reimburse them for and the trouble and upset Openwork caused.
Putting things right
Mr M and Ms N have said they are willing to accept £7,152.05 compensation to resolve this 
complaint. Openwork has said they have no queries on how I have calculated this figure.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Openwork Limited. I direct Openwork 
to pay Mr M and Ms N £7,152.05 to resolve this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman