DRN-2628077
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc gave confusing information about his credit 
card debt which resulted in him missing a payment.
What happened
In 2020 Mr H had some issues with Co-op regarding his credit card account. He raised two 
complaints which were addressed by the bank. I am aware of these issues, but they are not 
part of this complaint. However, I appreciate Mr H has explained that a barrage of 
communications by the bank has been misleading and confusing and this has contributed to 
the issue which the basis of this complaint.
Mr H had exceeded his balance limit and in September it was agreed he would make a 
payment to bring the account within the limit. This he did in October 2020. In December he 
received a text to say he had missed his minimum payment for November and he needed to 
pay £562.
Mr H had presumed the payments of £996 which he had made in October to bring his 
account back within its limit covered his November payment too. Mr H complained that he 
hadnt been told about the need to make this payment. He said that when he had spoken to 
the bank in October he understood a direct debit was to be set up to collect the minimum 
sum due each month. 
The Co-op rejected Mr Hs complaint and he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He listened to the various calls between Mr H and the bank and set out the key elements of 
those conversations which I wont repeat here. In summary, in October 2020 Mr H was made 
aware of the minimum sum needed to get his card under the limit. He was struggling to find 
the money to do so, but he managed to pay £996. 
However, the next statement added further interest and charges which took him over his limit 
again. This statement shows he was due to pay £282 by 7 December 2020. After receiving a 
text to say he was over his limit Mr H called the bank on 18 December. 
Our investigator said that it was Mr Hs responsibility to ensure he was aware of what 
payments were due and to make those payments. He referred to the terms and conditions of 
the online account which allowed Mr H to check his balance at any time. I gather Mr H 
doesnt check emails or his online banking and relies in text messages.
Our investigator concluded that none of the various advisers to whom Mr H had spoken had 
suggested his catch up payments in October would mean he could ignore his November 
statement and the payment which was due in December. Our investigator said that when Mr 
H was speaking to advisers the November statement hadnt been generated so they would 
not have been able to advise him of what would be due. Nor did the bank offer a text service 
to let customers know what payment was due though it did use texts to remind them of 
arrears.
Our investigator said the bank had sought to assist Mr H. However, Mr H he believed that it 
hadnt made it clear he owed more money in December and as a result he had an adverse 
entry made on his credit file which he said caused his mortgage payments to increase by 
£80. It had also affected his ability to re-mortgage. Our investigator could find no evidence to 
support that claim and said Mr H had already missed payments which would have affected 
his credit rating.
Mr H didnt agree and said he had been overwhelmed by the bank and he had given it 
enough leeway to resolve the matter in a reasonable way. It had made mistakes and now he 
was being unfairly punished. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr H that the bank made an error in some information it gave him earlier in 2020 
and that complaint was settled and he received £50 compensation. However, that doesnt 
mean that the bank must bear responsibility for him missing the payment due in December.
Regrettably, Mr H has been in persistent debt as defined by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The FCA imposed an obligation on the Co-op to engage with Mr H to assist him in 
reducing his debt. It has done so, but the problem remains. I accept that Mr H is facing 
financial challenges and it has been difficult for him to service his debt.
The bank has asked for details of his income and expenditure in order to explore options of 
getting his debt under control. However, in the meantime Mr is obliged to meet his monthly 
payments and to keep below his upper limit.
It seems Mr H considers the bank is obliged to remind him of the payments he is due to pay 
by text. It does not offer that service and it is not obliged to do so. He has online access and 
he can see his statements at any time of his choosing and he can see what is owed and by 
when. It is his account and he has the responsibility of managing it.
I can understand that he may not wish to look at the debt on his account, but it cannot be 
ignored and the responsibility cannot be passed on to the bank.  I can also appreciate that 
he may feel overwhelmed by the situation and the communications from the bank, but I 
cannot sagely conclude that it has done anything wrong in the way it has engaged with him.
I have no details of the increase in mortgage payments or any evidence to show that they 
were increased because of this one missed payment. Mr Hs credit file will have contained a 
number of adverse entries and I cannot say that he has been unfairly disadvantaged by this 
one event. 
Although I do not uphold this complaint I would remind the bank of its obligation to deal with 
Mr H positively and sympathetically in helping him resolve his financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 Ivor Graham
Ombudsman