DRN-2936455
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) unfairly registered a fraud marker against his 
name. To put things right, he wants TSB to remove the marker and pay him compensation.  
What happened
On 13 April 2017, TSB applied a fraud marker against Mr Ss name with CIFAS, the Credit 
Industry Fraud Avoidance System. It had concerns with the way Mr S was using his account.
Mr S only became aware of the marker in 2020, after he tried, unsuccessfully, to apply for 
credit with other banks. He complained to TSB, but TSB said it was satisfied the marker had 
been applied correctly. So, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked TSB to provide evidence to support its decision to register the CIFAS 
marker. In response, it provided various system notes alleging fraud on the part of Mr S. But 
it couldnt provide any evidence to support its concerns, so our investigator thought TSB 
should remove the marker.
TSB reluctantly accepted our investigators opinion. Mr S said he wanted to be compensated 
for the marker being on his file for three years, but he couldnt provide any evidence to 
demonstrate it had caused him any loss or inconvenience.
Mr S then contacted our investigator again to say TSB had closed his account, and that he 
wanted to appeal the case and seek compensation. Our investigator explained Mr S would 
have to raise his complaint about the account closure with TSB separately. But agreed to 
refer the matter to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for TSB to file a misuse of facility marker, its not required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of a crime. But it must show there are grounds for more 
than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
1.There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
2.The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Having looked at the notes TSB has provided our service, I understand why it had concerns 
about Mr Ss use of his account. But in order to register a CIFAS marker in these 
circumstances, it must be able to produce sufficient evidence to show Mr S was deliberately 
complicit in fraud.
Our investigator sought evidence to support TSBs actions, but it wasnt able to produce any 
due to the passage of time. And the notes Ive seen dont demonstrate much more than a 
mere suspicion of wrongdoing. So, I cant reasonable say it was entitled to register the 
CIFAS marker.
Mr S told our investigator that he first assumed he wasnt able to obtain credit because of his 
poor credit history and that he didnt find out about his CIFAS marker until later. Our 
investigator asked Mr S to provide evidence to demonstrate the CIFAS marker had caused 
him to be rejected for credit, but Mr S wasnt able to do so.
Ive thought about Mr Cs situation and what damage the CIFAS marker caused him. When 
banks lend money, they consider various factors before accepting a customers application. 
One of those is factors is the customers credit history. Given Mr S accepts his credit score 
wasnt good, its hard to say with any degree of certainty whether Mr S was declined credit 
because of his credit rating, or because of the CIFAS marker.
Further, Mr S hasnt been able to provide any evidence to demonstrate he was rejected for 
credit because of the CIFAS marker. So, on balance, I cant reasonably say Mr S has 
suffered any loss as a result of the CIFAS marker. I appreciate hes upset that TSB have 
closed his account, but Mr S will need to raise that as a separate complaint, so I wont 
consider whether TSB was right to do so, or whether it should pay any compensation as a 
result, in this decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that TSB should remove the CIFAS 
marker, if it has not already done so, but I wont ask it to pay Mr S compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman