DRN-2583242
Complaint
Ms L has complained about a guarantor loan Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) 
provided to her. She says she the loan was unaffordable and she is also unhappy with the 
length of time it took to process a request for a payment deferral.
  
Background
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms L and Buddy Loans had told us. And he thought 
that Buddy Loans didnt do anything wrong when it initially provided this loan to Ms L. But he 
thought that Buddy Loans had unnecessarily delayed the processing of Ms Ls payment 
deferral. So partially he upheld Ms Ls complaint and told Buddy Loans to pay Ms L £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Buddy Loans initially accepted the investigators assessment and agreed to pay £200 in 
compensation. Ms L disagreed with our investigator on the part about whether she should 
have been provided with the loan in the first place and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ls complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Buddy Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms L could afford to repay what she was being lent without increasing her 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Buddy Loans provided Ms L with a guarantor loan for £5,000 in January 2020. It had an APR 
of 49.9% and was to due be repaid in a first instalment of £278.94 followed by 47 
instalments of around £214, which meant the total amount to be repaid was £10,332.23. 
Buddy Loans says it agreed to Ms Ls application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and it calculated her expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out on Ms L and 
the bank statements she provided to support declared income. All of this showed that once 
Ms L consolidated the debts she said would, shed be able to comfortably make the 
repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms L has said she was in financial 
difficulty and had to borrow further to make the payments she did.
The first thing for me to say is that this was Buddy Loans first loan with Ms L. Theres been 
some debate about the use of statistical data and whether this was appropriate. However, 
Ms L did say she had minimal living costs as a result of living her with partners parents. And 
while Ms L now says she was supporting her mother and contributing to two households, 
she clearly said she had no dependents at the time. Ms L did say she wanted to lend her 
mother some money because she was disabled but this isnt the same as supporting her 
mother and I dont think that this required Buddy Loans finding out more given Ms L wasnt 
living with her mother and what shed said about having no dependents. 
Furthermore, Buddy Loans obtained bank statements from Ms L in order to verify her 
income. The income going into her account broadly matched her declaration and there 
wasnt anything obvious which contradicted the expenses declared either  for example, 
there wasnt anything to indicate she was making larger contributions to bill payments etc. 
Given the low amount going towards household bills, I dont think the decision to rely on 
statistical data was unreasonable here  especially bearing in mind Ms L was told this during 
the income and expenditure call and didnt object at that stage.
The credit search Buddy Loans carried out did show Ms L had existing debts. Some of which 
she appeared to have had difficulty making payments to. Im not persuaded Ms Ls reason 
that a change in the date she received her salary was responsible for this. Ms L has quite 
rightly pointed out that the funds provided were nowhere near enough to clear all of her 
existing debts. But the content of the phone calls suggest that was never the intention here. 
Ms L clearly understood that shed have balances left on credit cards. And the main purpose 
of this loan was to clear some not all of Ms Ls existing debts  especially the short term 
ones which were taking up a greater proportion of her monthly expenditure, in order to 
reduce her overall monthly payments to credit. And if Ms L had cleared some of these debts, 
as she had committed to doing in the phone calls, then the amount shed be paying to 
creditors each month would have reduced.  
So Im not persuaded by Ms Ls argument that the loan was unaffordable because it was 
never going to consolidate all of her existing debts into one payment. And Im satisfied that 
Buddy Loans did take reasonable steps to ensure it wasnt increasing Ms Ls overall 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, as well as taking 
reasonable steps to ensure Ms L was able to make the monthly repayments.   
Ms L went on to experience difficulty making her payments. And the reason why might have 
been because she didnt repay the debts she committed to repaying. But Buddy Loans wont 
have known Ms L would do this at this stage  all it could do was take reasonable steps to 
ensure the payments would be affordable if the balances were repaid, which it did. And at 
this stage Ms L didnt have a track record of returning to Buddy Loans for credit after failing 
to settle debts she had previously committed to settling.
Equally its only really fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Buddy Loans did 
anything wrong - it carried out reasonable checks the results of which suggested the 
repayments would be affordable if Ms L did what she said she would, it took also reasonable 
steps to avoid Ms Ls indebtedness increasing unsustainably. So overall and having considered everything, I dont think Buddy Loans treated Ms L unfairly 
or unreasonably when providing her with this loan. And as this is the case, Im not upholding 
this part of Ms Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms L  especially as 
shes referred to decisions from other ombudsman involving consumers whose 
circumstances she believes to be the same as her own. But each case is decided on its 
individual merits. And I hope shell understand that Ms L reasons why Ive reached the 
decision I have in her case and at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this part of Ms Ls complaint, Id like to remind Buddy Loans of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance in the event Ms L is experiencing difficulty repaying this 
loan, should it choose to collect payments from her.
I now turn to Ms Ls concerns about the delay in processing a pandemic payment deferral on 
her account. Ms L accepts the proposed £200 compensation payment Buddy Loans initially 
agreed to. But Buddy Loans now disagrees with the investigator and says it needed the 
guarantors permission in order not to invalidate the guarantee indemnity agreement.
Ive thought about what Buddy Loans has said and I dont know whether its guarantee and 
indemnity agreement with the guarantor would have been affected in the way it says it would 
have had the deferral been agreed promptly. But even if this is the case, this doesnt alter 
Buddy Loans obligation to exercise forbearance in light of Ms Ls difficulties. 
The FCAs temporary guidance, which had already been consulted on and published when 
Ms L got in contact with Buddy Loans, clearly said that borrowers were entitled to a three-
month payment holiday  unless a lender could show that granting one was obviously not in 
the borrowers interests. While contacting the guarantor and obtaining their consent might 
have been in Buddy Loans interests, I cant see how this was obviously in Ms Ls interests, 
or that the temporary guidance for personal loans (which specifically included guarantor 
loans) allowed for one being refused on the basis of the guarantor not consenting either. 
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Buddy Loans insistence on the guarantors 
consent to a payment deferral meant it didnt pay due regard to Ms Ls interests and treat her 
fairly. As such, Im satisfied that this part of Ms Ls complaint should be upheld and Buddy 
Loans should pay Ms L £200 in compensation.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Ms Ls complaint. Advancis Limited 
should pay Ms L £200 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman