DRN-3880255
The complaint
Ms Ws complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RLM) 
declined the claim she made on the terminal illness benefit on her life insurance plan.
What happened
In 2009, Ms W and her husband bought a life insurance plan from a division of RLM.  The 
plan provided £120,000 worth of cover in the event of one of them dying.  It also allowed a 
claim to be made in the event of a terminal diagnosis.  The plan is still live and provides 
cover until December 2025.  It was rebranded to RLM in 2015.
In 2017, Ms W was diagnosed with cancer.  It had unfortunately already metastasised by this 
point and Ms W was advised it was terminal.  Based on this information, Ms W made a claim 
on the terminal illness benefit on the plan.
RLM declined the claim at the end of 2017.  They said theyd reviewed the evidence  
including reports from Ms Ws doctors  and had concluded that Ms W didnt meet the 
definition of terminal illness in the plan.
Immediately after this, Ms W chose to focus on her treatment.  But in early 2022 she 
complained to RLM about their decision.  RLM confirmed the plan defined a terminal illness 
as:
An advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinions of an attending 
consultant and our chief medical ofcer, the life expectancy of the person covered is no 
greater than 12 months.
RLM said Ms Ws oncologist had told them they thought her life expectancy was between 12 
and 18 months.  And their chief medical officer had noted shed responded well to the 
palliative treatment shed received, so they couldnt say her life expectancy was less than 12 
months at that point.   
RLM said that, if Ms Ws prognosis had changed, she could contact them to see whether she 
could make a fresh claim.
Ms W wasnt satisfied with RLMs response and brought her complaint to our service.   Our 
investigator considered it and concluded RLM didnt need to do anything differently to 
resolve matters.  She noted RLM had sent Mr and Ms W a welcome pack in 2009 with the 
plan documentation  including the plan details document which defined a terminal illness.  
And she was satisfied RLM had investigated Ms Ws situation fully  including consulting 
their Chief Medical Officer (CMO) before declining the claim.
Ms W didnt agree with our investigators view.  She said shed never received a copy of the 
plan details document until the investigator sent it to her.  Ive now been asked to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.  I know that will upset her and Im 
sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain why Ive made that decision.
RLM declined Ms Ws claim because they said, at the time she made it, she didnt meet the 
definition of terminal illness (set out above).  Theyve indicated that, if circumstances change 
while the plan is still in force, theyd consider a new claim  which is what I would expect 
them to do.  But Im only concerned with the decision RLM made in 2017.
Im satisfied RLM considered the 2017 claim reasonably.  They requested and considered 
evidence from Ms Ws doctors about her prognosis.  That showed that, in April 2017, shortly 
after her diagnosis, her life expectancy was 12-18 months.  
Ms W submitted a claim six months later.  By this point, shed undergone a number of 
months of treatment, to which her notes say she responded well. RLM asked their CMO to 
comment.  The CMO didnt think at that point her life expectancy met the plan criteria.  So I 
think RLMs decision to decline the claim was made in line with the plan terms.
Ms W has said she wasnt aware of how the plan defines a terminal illness because she 
never received a copy of the plan details document  only the key facts.  And the key facts 
document doesnt say theres a specific definition of the term.
Ive thought carefully about this.  As Ive said above, Im satisfied the term was applied fairly 
in Ms Ws case.  But Ive considered whether RLM should have done more to make her 
aware of its existence.
RLM have provided a copy of the welcome letter they sent to Mr and Ms W when they 
bought the plan in 2009.  The letters correctly addressed  so should have reached them.  It 
says it encloses four documents  the plan details, key facts, cover summary and welcome 
booklet.  Ms W says it contained only the key facts.  
The front page of the key facts document includes the statement:
This document does not contain the full terms and conditions of the plan, but does form part 
of your contract with Royal London on behalf of Bright Grey. The terms and conditions are 
contained in the plan details booklet and cover summary which we will send you when your 
plan starts. You may want to refer to the plan details before taking out your plan and you can 
ask us for a copy of this at any time.
I dont think this statement could make it any clearer that the key facts cant be relied on for 
full information about the applicable terms and conditions.  And it makes clear when the full 
terms will be sent to Ms W  and that she can request them before this if she wants to.
Im satisfied from the letter RLM have provided that the letter was posted to Ms W.  And Im 
satisfied from the key facts document she would have known she should receive the plan 
details.  Nothing Ive seen persuades me Ms W told RLM shed not received them before 
she made her complaint in 2022.  So I cant hold them responsible for her not receiving 
them.  And I dont think they need to do any more to resolve her complaint.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint about The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman