DRN-3139060
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc wont refund a number of transactions made 
from his account, which he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr B says a number of transactions made from his account between April 2014 and August 
2015 werent made by him. The transactions include a number of retail purchases, payments 
to loan companies and transfers to other accounts and were for varying amounts between 
£10 and £4,300, totalling over £15,000.
Co-op investigated the transactions but said Mr Bs debit card and PIN, along with his 
additional security answers and his card reader, wouldve needed to be used to make the 
transactions. It said it believed Mr B had made the transactions himself or allowed someone 
else to use his account, so it didnt agree to refund the transactions. But it did accept there 
had been delays and poor customer service in its response to his complaint, so offered him 
£150 as compensation for this. Mr B wasnt happy with Co-ops response, so referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they felt it was likely Mr B had 
authorised the transactions, so they didnt ask Co-op to refund them. Mr B disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Co-op needs to refund the transactions to Mr B. Ill explain why 
below.
Generally, Co-op can hold Mr B liable for disputed transactions on his account if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made them himself or told someone else 
they could make them.
Due to the amount of time that has passed since the transactions, Co-op hasnt been able to 
send us technical evidence showing how they were all made. But, due to the types of 
transactions, I think its likely they would have been done either online or by presenting a 
debit card in a shop. And so I think its likely Mr Bs card and online banking details were 
used to make the transactions.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Co-op to hold 
Mr B liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than 
not that Mr B consented to the withdrawals being made with his card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr B says he thinks the transactions were done by his now ex-partner, who was living with 
him at the time. And I accept that his partner at the time would likely have known personal 
information about him and may have had the opportunity to take and replace his card without 
him noticing. Mr B has also sent us evidence that his ex-partner had arranged for their post 
to be held and not delivered to their address for at least some of the time when the disputed 
transactions were taking place.
But Co-op has said, and it appears likely, that a number of the transactions were done using 
online banking  including the largest transaction, a transfer of £4,300 which appears to 
have gone to his ex-partners daughter. And in order to set up and use online banking, 
Mr Bs personal and security details will have been needed and his card and PIN would then 
have been used in a card reader sent out by Co-op.
Mr B says he never gave his ex-partner these security details. So, particularly without 
knowing the card PIN and his security code, I cant see how his ex-partner would have been 
able to make these online banking transactions. Given the number of possible combinations, 
its extremely unlikely someone could guess the PIN or security code. So I think its likely 
whoever made the online banking transactions knew the PIN and security code.
The disputed transactions are also usually for relatively small amounts, sometimes for a 
variety of retail purchases and there are often gaps of several weeks between them. They 
also stop over three years before Mr B says his relationship with his ex-partner ended. So 
the disputed transactions dont follow the behaviour Id expect to see if someone was using 
someone elses account without their permission in the way Mr B suggests.
There was also a transfer into the account of just over £35,000 shortly after the disputed 
transactions started, which Mr B says was for a boat he sold. This was significantly larger 
than any other transaction on the account in the previous months and significantly increased 
the balance on the account. But Mr B says he didnt check that the transfer had credited his 
account or monitor his account in any way over the following 18 months  and he hasnt 
been able to give any reason why he didnt monitor his account during this time.
Due to the size of this transfer compared with the previous transactions on the account, and 
as it was for the sale of a valuable asset, I find it difficult to believe that Mr B didnt check that 
it had successfully arrived in his account in any way. Mr B also accepts he made several 
cash withdrawals from the account in the following days, and several of these were for 
amounts larger than the balance of the account was before the £35,000 transfer in. So I 
again think its unlikely he hadnt checked the balance of the account in any way at this time.
Even if Mr Bs partner at the time had stopped him receiving all paper statements, Id expect 
him to have noticed he wasnt receiving statements or to have checked his account at a cash 
machine or in branch. And, as several disputed transactions, including the £4,300 transfer to 
his ex-partners daughter, took place during this time, Id expect him to have noticed and 
reported these at the time if he didnt recognise them.
Co-ops records also show Mr B ordered copies of four years of account statements in 2016. 
If Mr B didnt receive these statements, Id expect him to have asked for them again. Or, if he 
did receive these statements, Id again expect him to have noticed and reported the disputed 
transactions at this point, rather than a number of years later.Mr B has raised that some of the disputed transactions are payments towards loans he didnt 
take out or agree to repay. And these may only have needed his account number and sort 
code to set up, which his ex-partner may have been able to find out without him noticing. 
But, as with the other disputed transactions, I still cant see why he didnt notice and report 
these payments sooner than he did if he didnt recognise them. And any complaint about the 
taking out of these loans should be made directly to the company that provided the loans.
I appreciate how Mr B feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. 
And based on the evidence I have, particularly that theres no plausible explanation for how 
someone else would know his PIN and security code and that he didnt report the 
transactions for several years, I think its likely Mr B either made the transactions himself or 
authorised someone else to do so.
It therefore follows that I dont need to look into whether the transactions were unusual in 
comparison to Mr Bs usual activity on the account or whether Co-op should have identified 
the transactions as potentially fraudulent as, even if it had done so, I think its likely Mr B 
would have confirmed he had authorised them.
So I think Co-op has acted reasonably in holding Mr B liable for the transactions and I dont 
think it needs to refund the transactions to him.
Co-op has offered Mr B £150 as compensation or the poor customer service he received 
and the delays in its response to his complaint. And I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr B £150 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Mr B £150, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman