DRN-3606963
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited has not reimbursed a payment he made from his 
account.
Whats happened?
Mr G has fallen victim to a scam. Ill summarise his explanation of what happened below.
In September 2021, Mr G was contacted by a representative of an insolvency company Ill 
refer to as R, advising of further action on a company hed purchased Voluntary Carbon 
Units (VCU) from in 2011. R said it was unable to provide any compensation for Mr Gs 
investment, and his only option was to sell privately. R recommended a broker, who Ill refer 
to as H, to assist him with this.
H found a buyer and asked Mr G to purchase pecuniary insurance to protect the sale. In 
early October 2021, Mr G instructed a £4,700 (HK$49,593.28) SWIFT payment to purchase 
a pecuniary insurance policy (the payment). 
Mr G says he never felt pressured into parting with his money, and he ran every legitimate 
and conceived check before making the payment. He was convinced of Rs and Hs 
legitimacy, and he had no concerns because, in summary: 
He contacted the insolvency register to corroborate what R had told him, and no 
concerns were flagged.
Companies House indicated that R was a legitimate company with registered offices.
He found positive company reviews online.
He had to sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) before R could check whether he 
was eligible for creditor compensation, and he thought this was normal because the 
activity was related to an ongoing court case. R also required proof of purchase on 
his investment.
The correspondence he received about this matter from R and H looked legitimate, 
and the processes both companies followed were professional and convincing.
H said it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
H checked his identity and asked him to sign another NDA.
H secured a fair price for his VCU, which was in line with market value, and sale 
documents were signed.
He carried out an internet search on pecuniary insurance and was satisfied that it 
was a legitimate requirement. He also checked with R, and it verified the findings of 
his research.
Mr G became suspicious when H asked him for more money. He reported his concerns to 
Starling on 13 October 2021 at around 6pm. Shortly afterwards, it became apparent that R 
and H were clone companies, and he had been scammed.
Starling made unsuccessful attempts to recover Mr Gs funds, and it declined to reimburse 
him. So, Mr G asked this Service to investigate. Our investigator didnt think Starling had 
made an error in this case that had caused Mr Gs financial loss, and Mr G has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, it is important to explain that the role of this Service is to look at individual 
complaints and decide whether a banking error has occurred which has caused a financial 
loss. We can direct a financial institution to put things right for a complainant that has 
suffered a financial loss due to a banking error  by putting them back in the position they 
would have been in but for the error  but we are not the regulator, and we cant require 
businesses to change their policies or procedures.
In raising his complaint with this Service, I can see that Mr G has referred to the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). But the CRM Code 
only applies to domestic payments, not international payments like the one thats the subject 
matter of this complaint.
It's common ground that Mr G authorised the payment in line with the Payment Services 
Regulations. So, Starling had an obligation to follow his payment instruction, and Mr G is 
presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story. Taking 
into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think that Starling should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm. 
I can see that two conversations took place between Mr G and Starling about the payment 
before it was made, so I dont need to make a finding on whether the payment ought to have 
triggered the banks fraud detection systems. Starling had an opportunity to intervene with 
the payment, and the question is whether the bank did enough to protect Mr G from financial 
harm when it discussed the payment with him.
During the conversations, Mr G told Starling that he needed to make a payment to an 
offshore company, but he couldnt instruct the payment online because he didnt have a post 
code to input. Starling explained that a post code is usually required to help prevent fraud 
and scams, and it recommended that Mr G contact the payee for the necessary information. 
But the bank said that if Mr G had done his research and was confident about the payment, then it could be processed without inputting a post code. Mr G confirmed that he wanted to 
process the payment in absence of the post code and said that:
The payment was for pecuniary insurance in relation to assets he was selling.
Hed done his due diligence and carried out all the checks he could. As far as could 
see, everything was legitimate, but hed only know that for sure once he received the 
sale funds. 
An FCA-regulated intermediary was assisting him with the sale of his assets, and 
theyd confirmed that post codes are not used in Hong Kong.
Hed searched the company he was paying on Companies House, and everything 
looked good.
I think its obvious from what Mr G said to Starling that he had some concerns about making 
the payment. But ultimately, hed done all the checks he could and was happy for the 
payment to be processed. I dont think its reasonable to expect the information Starling 
received from Mr G during its conversations with him to have caused the bank concern. And, 
even if it had, leading to Starling asking Mr G some further questions about the payment, I 
think its likely he would have given it the same information he has given to this Service (set 
out under whats happened? above), which wouldve reasonably satisfied the bank.
Its worth noting that Mr G independently carried out the checks Starling may have advised 
him to do to protect himself from financial harm had it identified a fraud risk.
The scam Mr G fell victim to was sophisticated and unusual, R and H were cloned (so the 
scam was more difficult to detect), and Mr G believed R and H to be legitimate after carrying 
out sufficient due diligence. Overall, I dont think it ought to have been reasonably obvious to 
Starling, from the information Mr G volunteered during the conversations between the parties 
and/or the further information Mr G is likely to have imparted had Starling asked him some 
further questions, that Mr G was falling victim to a scam. So, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Starling shouldnt have processed the payment, or that it should reimburse the payment on 
the basis that it failed to take action which would most likely have prevented the scam and 
Mr Gs financial loss.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr G has fallen victim to a cruel and callous scam, and I have 
great sympathy for the unfortunate position he has found himself in. But Im not persuaded 
that Starling acted unreasonably in processing the payment, or that it ought to have 
identified a fraud risk here and prevented the scam/Mr Gs financial loss. So, it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable to require Starling to reimburse Mr G. 
Ive seen that Starling appropriately attempted to recover Mr Gs funds, as Id expect it to do 
 but unfortunately, it was unsuccessful. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman