DRN-2374147
The complaint
 Mr N has complained that due to an error by the Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Bank of 
Ireland (UK) (Bank of Ireland), a payment to a bank in France failed.
What happened
 Mr N made occasional payments from his Bank of Ireland account to his account with a 
bank in another country using telegraphic transfer. In February 2019, he visited a branch of 
Bank of Ireland to make another one. The branch staff advised him to make the payment 
using SEPA (Single Euro Payment Area) instead. He said he didnt know how to do this and 
says that the staff set up the SEPA payment details for him. The SEPA transfer failed. The 
branch made the transfer using the telegraphic transfer system instead. 
In early December 2019, Mr N tried to transfer just over 1,000 euros to his account in 
another country, using the SEPA information set up by the branch earlier in the year. The 
transfer was returned by this bank because the bank identifier code (BIC) was wrong. The 
payment was refunded to his account the next day, but the amount refunded was less that 
the value of the initial transfer because of the difference in exchange rates used. Mr N visited 
a branch of Bank of Ireland a few days later and the staff tried to resolve the matter, but after 
waiting for 40 minutes, Mr N complained.
Mr Ns complaint was that because the SEPA payment details were input by the bank in 
February 2019, they were responsible for the BIC being wrong and for the failed payment. 
This cost him £55.17 (being the difference between the amounts paid and returned). He said 
that the branch had told him that this amount would be refunded. He was also unhappy at 
the time taken by the bank to respond to his complaint.
Bank of Ireland replied to Mr N saying that the SEPA payment was returned because the 
BIC number was wrong. They said that the payment was made on the instructions given by 
Mr N and so the error was down to him. It was Mr Ns responsibility to check that the details 
were correct.
Mr N brought his complaint to us, where our investigator said that Mr N relied on the 
information that the branch set up for him earlier in 2019. He agreed that it was Mr Ns 
responsibility to ensure the details were correct. But Bank of Ireland couldnt provide 
evidence of how the SEPA details were set up originally, whether it was done by Mr N 
himself in the branch by logging onto his online banking, or if a member of staff did it for him. 
On balance he accepted Mr Ns version of events  that the staff at the branch set the 
payment details up for him. He said that £100 should be paid to Mr N. This was to 
compensate Mr N for the overall inconvenience, the time taken for the Bank of Ireland to 
investigate his complaint. The amount included the loss of £55.17 on the exchange rate 
difference.
Bank of Ireland disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central question which I must consider is  whos responsibility was it to check the 
SEPA online payment details when the payment was made in December 2019? 
The Bank of Ireland say that Mr N was responsible for checking the data when he made the 
payment. Their processes are that SEPA details could only be set up by the account holder 
themselves and therefore Mr N must have input the data in February 2019. But the Bank of 
Ireland could not produce evidence as to how the payment details were set up, for example, 
by showing internet banking log on screens. They also say that Mr N should have 
remembered that the SEPA payment failed in February 2019. 
Mr N says that he relied on the details which he said were input by branch staff in February 
2019. He says that was because he couldnt do it himself. Mr Ns account shows only a 
small number of transactions. The two transfers in question were the only ones made 
between March 2018 and December 2019. So, I dont think its fair to say he was an 
experienced customer where international payments are concerned. I think this would also 
mean that it is unlikely that he would remember the failed SEPA payment from 10 months 
earlier. In any event, I think he was just trying to make the payment in the easiest and most 
convenient way for him as a customer in December 2019.
So, there are conflicting views from both sides, and a lack of firm evidence as to what 
happened. Bank of Ireland is correct in stating that the responsibility for checking that the 
information on an online payment is Mr Ns. But in this case, I am inclined to believe Mr Ns 
version of events and accept that he relied on the data which he said was input by the 
branch staff. Hes been clear and consistent in his version of events and Im persuaded that, 
on balance, what he says happened is whats more likely than not to have taken place here.
Putting things right
There was a cost of £55.17 to Mr N as a result of the failed payment. Also, he had the 
inconvenience and cost of having to make the payment again, including visiting the branch 
to sort it out. He had to wait three months for a response to his complaint. He had to call the 
bank in another country to try to understand what had happened. To put this right, Bank of 
Ireland should pay a total of £100 and that includes the cost of the failed payment (£55.17) 
with the remainder to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience hes been caused 
here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland Plc trading as Bank of Ireland (UK) to pay 
Mr N a total of £100. This includes the £55.17 cost of the failed payment with the remainder 
being compensation to Mr N for the impact this situation had on him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman