DRN-1700681
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander UK Plc contacted him using a telephone number which 
he had not provided or consented to it using. 
What happened
Mr D opened a credit card account with Santander in February 2013. Mr D says he applied 
for the card in his name only, and had never provided Santander with his land line number. 
Mr D says he has only ever provided his mobile number in relation to this account.  
In mid-September 2019, Mr D says he received an automated message from Santander on 
his land line number. Mr D was unhappy with this as he had never provided his land line 
number. He says Santander must have accessed his wifes account in order to get this 
number. And he feels this has breached confidentiality and impacted his wife, as she has a 
disability and the land line is only used in relation to this.
Mr D emailed Santander to establish why it had used his land line. Santander had advised it 
received instructions to cancel Mr Ds direct debit on 7 August 2019, and as a result the 
August payment was missed. This caused a late payment fee to be applied to Mr Ds 
account at the start of September 2019. 
Santander went on to explain that Mr D had held accounts with it previously and his land line 
number had been registered on his profile. It explained that it has now removed the land line 
number but offered £150 for the trouble and upset it had caused Mr D, and to refund the £12 
late payment fee. Santander also sent flowers to Mrs D.
Mr D remained unhappy because Santander didn't refund the late payment fee, despite 
saying it would. So, he raised a further complaint. Santander issued another final response 
letter in mid-October 2019 stating the £12 late payment fee had been refunded. It confirmed 
no adverse information had been recorded on Mr Ds credit file and offered a further £25 for 
not refunding the late payment fee sooner. Mr D remained unhappy so he brought the 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didn't recommend that Santander do 
anything further. To summarise, she said she Santander had said Mr D held previous about 
with it. And when he opened his credit card, this was added to his old customer profile. So 
while she had not seen that Mr Ds land line was listed on the customer profile (as it had 
been deleted), she felt it was reasonable to suggest the number was held there previously.  
She went on to explain she had seen evidence to suggest Santander had received direction 
from his bank to cancel the direct debit. So, it had acted in accordance with this instruction. 
And finally, after reviewing the terms and conditions, she felt Santander had acted in inline 
with them as Santander had contacted Mr D regarding an outstanding debt on the account. 
Overall, she felt the compensation amount Santander had offered was fair and reasonable. Mr D didn't agree. He said Santander had not followed the rules in relation to confidentiality. 
He also said Santander had not sent a letter explaining the issue with his direct debit - nor 
did it use his mobile number which hed provide when he applied for his credit card.
Mr D remained unhappy that he still had not been provided with evidence on how Santander 
had accessed his land line number. He said Santander were aware of the distress it was 
causing using the land line number and it continued to do so. Because of this the complaint 
was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons and I 
will explain why.
Direct debit
Santander has provided evidence to demonstrate Mr Ds bank requested that the direct debit 
was cancelled. So, Santander acted on this instruction, which I think is reasonable. And I 
dont think its it fair to expect Santander to have issued a letter explaining this to Mr D. I say 
this because the instruction came from Mr Ds bank, so it was reasonable for Santander to 
assume this is what Mr D had requested and was aware of. 
So when Mr D missed his credit card payment Santander applied a late payment fee in line 
with the terms and conditions. It also tried to make contact with Mr D. So I cant say 
Santander acted incorrectly in regards to this. However, I am pleased to see that Santander 
agreed to refund this late payment fee and no adverse information was recorded on Mr Ds 
credit file.
Land line number
Mr D says Santander must have got his land line number form an account his wife holds with 
it. But Santander says the number was associated with an old account in Mr Ds name. I 
cant be certain how Santander obtained Mr Ds land line number. The customer profile 
information Santander sent to us didn't show the land line as being listed (as it was deleted 
as requested by Mr D). In any event, I am satisfied that Mr D didn'tt want his land line 
number to be listed on his account or used. He provided his mobile number only. So I think it 
is fair to say more care should have been taken in ensuring Mr Ds preferred method of 
contact was listed correctly. And given the fact Mr D had provided a mobile number I think 
this should have been used to contact him. 
I have also taken into consideration Mr Ds personal circumstances and what he has said the 
land line is used for. And having done so, I can appreciate why he is frustrated and the 
impact this would have had on him and his wife. With that being said, I do feel Santanders 
offer was fair and reasonable in recognising the impact that it had caused. 
I say this because, having looked at the call logs provided, it appears that only one call was 
answered and the other calls were either unsuccessful or terminated. So while I appreciate 
Santander shouldn't have used the land line I feel £150 is enough to compensate Mr D for 
the inconvenience it caused to him. I understand Mr D is unhappy as Mrs D hasnt been 
compensated. But Mr D is the customer of Santander, so I have to consider the trouble and 
upset the error caused him. Having said that, I am pleased to see that Santander sent Mrs D 
flowers.  I have also considered Santanders delay in refunding the late payment fee. And as I have 
explained above, while I dont think Santander acted incorrectly applying the fee, it did agree 
to refund it. So having agreed to refund the fee I feel it should have acted promptly. If it had 
done so Mr D wouldn't have had to chase this up. I have considered the delay which 
occurred and the impact this had on Mr D, and I feel £25 is sufficient for the trouble and 
upset caused by the refund taking a couple of weeks longer than it should have. 
In total, Santander offered Mr D £175 for the trouble and upset it caused, and as I have 
explained above I feel this is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman