DRN-3409689
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) mis-sold them a 
Privilege Premier account on 5 November 2010.
Mr and Mrs H say that they took out the fee-paying packaged account specifically as they 
were assured that their campervan, which is 6.5m long, would be covered by the breakdown 
cover provided by the account. They say they have since read a policy document that says 
their vehicle is not covered for breakdown cover, as the policy currently excludes cover for 
vehicles longer than 5.5m.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and he didnt think that Co-op had mis-
sold the Privilege Premier account to Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that Co-op did mis-sell the account to Mr and Mrs H. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say that their account was mis-sold, essentially because they say they only 
agreed to the account because they were assured that their campervan would be covered by 
the breakdown cover that was included with the account.
Ive had a look at the Privilege Premier breakdown terms and conditions that were in force at 
the time that it was sold to Mr and Mrs H. And what they were told by Co-Op looks to have 
been correct, as a general exclusion explained that vehicles were excluded from cover if the 
vehicle exceeded 3,500 kg, or was longer than 7m in length, 3m in height and 2.25m in 
width. But Mr and Mrs Hs vehicle is 6.5m long, so it was under the maximum length, and 
theyve not said that it wouldve exceeded any of the other limits stated above either.
Because of this, I cant reasonably say that the account was mis-sold by Co-Op. This is 
because I cant say that Co-op had misled Mr and Mrs H when what it told them about the 
breakdown cover looks to have been correct at the time the account was sold to them.
I understand the issue that Mr and Mrs H have complained about has come about because 
Co-op changed the breakdown cover provider in September 2011. Unfortunately, Co-op 
never actually explained this to Mr and Mrs H when it addressed their complaint. But from 
reviewing the Privilege Premier breakdown cover policies from before and after the change 
of product provider, I can see that the general exclusion relating to the vehicle dimensions 
did change slightly. After the change in product provider, from the documents that I have 
seen, the general exclusion in question said that cover will be provided for vehicles not 
exceeding 5.5m long. 
Its not clear if Co-op informed Mr and Mrs H about the change in the breakdown provider. 
Although it appears that Mr and Mrs H were receiving other documentation from Co-op 
about their Privilege Premier account. So I think its likely they wouldve also been sent the 
notification (known as a notice of variation letter). 
Nevertheless, even if I were to conclude that Co-op shouldve made this change clearer, 
when it informed Mr and Mrs H about the change in providers, I cant see that Mr and Mrs H 
have actually suffered a detriment. 
The reason why I say this is because Mr and Mrs H say that they did make a breakdown 
cover claim for their campervan, and the product provider did cover their claim. As such, 
theyve not incurred any costs due to a breakdown cover claim being declined. Also, I note 
that Mr and Mrs H say that they only agreed to the account in the first place as it worked out 
cheaper to pay for the account for the breakdown cover, than if they had taken out 
standalone breakdown cover for their campervan. 
Therefore, had Mr and Mrs H been made aware of the updated policy limitations, and so 
downgraded their account to a fee-free account and taken out separate cover instead - 
which I think they likely wouldve done based on what they have told us - it appears that this 
wouldve ended up costing them more (or at least a similar amount) than what they did 
actually pay for the account. As such, I cant reasonably conclude that they suffered a 
detriment, or have lost out financially, in the circumstances. 
As a final point, I understand that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy largely because the size and 
type of vehicles covered (or not as the case may be) are not given sufficient prominence 
within the policy document. They say that the size and type of vehicles covered should be 
made clearer and say that it is unreasonable that the only information about vehicles that 
arent covered, is buried away in the general exclusions section of the policy wording.
Having read through the document, I do have some sympathy towards their argument on 
this point. But having said that, this complaint is against the Co-operative Bank Plc. But it is 
the product provider, not Co-op, that is responsible for how the terms and conditions of the 
policy are worded and structured. As such, I cant hold Co-op responsible for anything that 
the product provider is responsible for. Because of this, I cant say that Co-op has acted 
unfairly or unreasonable because Mr and Mrs H believe that the policy documents are 
unclear and need amending.
Overall, in summary, I dont think that Co-op mis-sold the Privilege Premier account, as the 
information they say they were provided with at the time was correct. I do think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs H were informed of the change to the breakdown provider (and therefore the 
change to the terms and conditions). But even if they werent informed about the changes, 
as they didnt have any claims declined and given that an alternative policy wouldve likely 
cost them either a similar amount or possibly more than what they did pay for the account, I 
dont think that they have suffered a detriment as a result of any possible wrongdoing by Co-
op. So given all of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman