DRN-3994527
The complaint
Mrs C, Miss C, Mr C1 and Mr C2 complain that Health and Protection Solutions Limited, 
trading as Towergate Health & Protection, mis-sold them a private medical insurance policy. 
As Mr C1 has represented the parties, Ill mainly refer to him in my decision.
What happened
HPSL sold Mr C1 a private medical insurance policy in October 2013. Mr C1 and his family 
were covered by the insurance policy which was underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as 
Insurer A. 
It renewed each year until December 2020 when Mr C1 cancelled it. This was shortly after 
Mr C1 had requested, and received, information about the commission HPSL was receiving 
from Insurer A. 
Mr C1 complained to HPSL because he says they failed to disclose commission paid by 
Insurer A to HPSL at the point of sale. Hes also unhappy with the amount of commission 
HPSL received and the on-going nature of the commission payments (which were paid every 
year upon renewal). 
In their final response letter HPSL didnt uphold Mr C1s complaint. They explained they 
were paid via a pre-agreed rate of commission, instead of a fee. They said this enabled them 
to offer their services to Mr C1 free of charge and set out what those services were. HPSL 
also explained that the level of commission didnt impact upon the price Mr C1 paid for the 
policy. Unhappy, Mr C1 referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr C1s complaint in part. Overall, 
she was satisfied that the policy hadnt been mis-sold. She highlighted that, at the time of the 
sale, there was no requirement for HPSL to disclose to Mr C1 that commission was being 
received by HPSL from Insurer A. She was also satisfied that HPSL had considered policies 
sold by other insurers and that the policy he was sold was suitable for his demands and 
needs. 
However, the investigator also noted that in October 2018 there was a change to Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) which required commission to be disclosed to 
Mr C1. HPSL couldnt demonstrate that their updated terms of business, disclosing the 
payment of commission, were issued to Mr C1 before his renewal date. She thought that had 
this information been sent to Mr C1 hed have most likely enquired about the commission 
payments and cancelled the policy. She recommended that HPSL refund the premiums Mr 
C1 had paid between December 2018 and November 2020, deducting the value of any 
claims paid during that time and adding 8% simple interest on the premiums paid during the 
relevant time. 
Mr C1 accepted the investigators findings, including the conclusions she reached about the 
initial sale of the policy and its subsequent renewals, prior to 2018. HPSL accepted that 
there was a failing when they didnt provide their updated Terms of Business in 2018, which 
outlined the commission arrangement. However, HPSL didnt think this made the policy 
unsuitable for Mr C1 and said hed received the benefit of private medical insurance between 
2018 and 2020. So, they suggested it was fairer to put things right by refunding the 
commission theyd received between December 2018 and November 2020 instead. 
Mr C1 didnt accept this offer as he said hed have cancelled the policy back in 2018 if hed 
known about the commission. HPSL said they wanted an ombudsman to review the case. 
So, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive outlined above it is accepted by HPSL that there was a failing in 2018 when they 
didnt provide Mr C1 with their updated Terms of Business. So, my decision will focus on the 
impact of this failing and how HPSL needs to put things right. 
In October 2018 there were changes to ICOBS which, in summary, required HPSL to 
disclose to their customers that they received commission. There was no requirement to 
disclose the amount of commission.  
From 1 October 2018 ICOBS 4.3R applied. It says: 
In good time before the conclusion of the initial contract of insurance and, if 
necessary, on its amendment or renewal an insurance intermediary must provide the 
customer with information: 
(1) On the nature of the remuneration received in relation to the contract of 
insurance: 
(2) (about whether in relation to the contract it works on the basis of: 
a. A fee, that is remuneration paid directly by the customer; or
b. A commission of any kind, that is the remuneration included in the premium; 
or
c. Any other type of remuneration, including an economic benefit of any kind 
offered or given in connection with the contract; or
d. On the basis of a combination of any type of remuneration set out above in 
(a), (b) and (c).      
Im upholding Mr C1s complaint because: 
I think there was a failure by HPSL to disclose information about commission to 
Mr C1 in 2018, after the ICOBS rules changed. Im satisfied HPSL should have 
provided Mr C1 with an updated copy of their Terms of Business before the 2018 
renewal, which outlined the arrangements in relation to commission. That was 
required by the rules Ive outlined above. HPSL havent demonstrated this 
information was sent to Mr C1, and accepts this was a failing on their part. 
Had the Terms of Business been sent theyd have explained to Mr C1 that HPSL 
were receiving commission which was a percentage of the total annual premium and that he had a right to request information about payments HPSL were receiving. This 
information hadnt been set out in such detail in previous versions of the Terms of 
Business Mr C1 had been sent. 
HPSL have acknowledged that failing to provide the updated Terms of Business 
potentially deprived Mr C1 of the opportunity to make a request for disclosure about 
whether commission was being received by them from Insurer A in 2018. I agree 
Mr C1 was deprived of that opportunity. The evidence available to me demonstrates 
that Mr C1 became aware that HPSL may have been receiving commission following 
an article in the media in around September 2020. Very shortly after seeing this 
article he asked for information about the commission HPSL were receiving. Taking 
this information into account I think that if Mr C1 had been sent the Terms of 
Business in or around October 2018, setting out the commission arrangements, hed 
have asked HPSL for information about the commission at that time. 
HPSL would have been required to disclose to Mr C1 that they were receiving 
commission from Insurer A, in line with the rules Ive outlined above. I think that if 
Mr C1 had made this information request in 2018 it is most likely that HPSL would 
have disclosed to him that they were receiving commission from Insurer A, and how 
much. I say that because when Mr C1 asked for information about commission in 
2020 HPSL provided confirmation that they were receiving commission and set out 
how much the commission was. 
Ive thought about what Mr C1 is most likely to have done had this information about 
commission been disclosed to him in 2018. I think hed have cancelled his private 
medical insurance policy and not taken cover elsewhere. When Mr C1 became 
aware of the details of the commission in 2020, he cancelled his policy virtually 
straight away. And, hes not taken out alternative cover with a different provider. 
Instead, hes chosen to seek treatment via the NHS. So, in this case, I think its most 
likely Mr C1 would have cancelled his policy in 2018 and not taken out an alternative 
policy, as hed have preferred to seek NHS treatment instead.
HPSLs representations havent persuaded me that a refund of the commission alone 
is a fairer way to resolve this complaint. I dont think that leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case. Im satisfied it is most likely 
Mr C1 would have cancelled the policy shortly after the rules changed in October 
2018 and that he wouldnt have been paying premiums for private medical insurance. 
Ive thought about when its most likely the cancellation of the policy would have 
taken place, had Mr C1 asked about the commission in October 2018. I know that 
when Mr C1 asked about commission in September 2020 it took until December 
2020 for him to cancel the policy. So, if Mr C1 had been told about the updated 
Terms of Business in or around October 2018, I think its reasonable to conclude that 
this would have most likely led to Mr C1 cancelling the policy in December 2018. 
Mr C1 wouldnt have been paying any premiums at all between December 2018 and 
November 2020 and I think hes lost out financially as a result. Ive taken into account 
that Mr C1 did receive a benefit from the policy. But I think deducting the value of any 
successful claims from the total value of the premiums paid fairly recognises that Mr 
C1 and his family received a benefit from the policy during the relevant time
Putting things right
HPSL needs to put things right by:Refunding the premiums paid for all policyholders on this policy from 30 December 
2018 until 30 November 2020. 
Deducting the value of any claim payments made by the policyholders on the policy 
between 30 December 2018 and 30 November 2020.
Adding 8% simple interest on each premium paid from 30 December 2018 until 30 
November 2020 from the date of payment to the date of the refund.
If HPSL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C1 how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C1 a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
Im partly upholding Mrs C, Miss C, Mr C1 and Mr C2s complaint about Health and 
Protection Solutions Limited, trading as Towergate Health & Protection, and direct them to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, Miss C, Mr 
C1 and Mr C2 to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman