DRN-3349478
The complaint
Mrs C complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) was unfair by not 
renewing her home insurance policy. Mrs C had representation during the complaint, but for 
ease and simplicity, I will only refer to Mrs C in my decision.
What happened
In 2020 Mrs C arranged home insurance with RSA via a comparison website. As part of her 
application Mrs C registered her claim history, which included a significant claim for storm 
damage. When Mrs Cs policy was due for renewal in 2021, she received a letter from RSA 
saying it had decided it wouldnt offer her a policy for the following year.
RSA said when Mrs C registered her claim history in 2020, it made a mistake and didnt 
update its systems with this information. Had it done so, RSA said it wouldnt have offered 
Mrs C a home insurance policy with it due to the significant claim she had made previously. 
As this was RSAs mistake, it decided to honour the policy Mrs C had been offered in 2020. 
However, when the time of the renewal came around in 2021, RSA knew about Mrs Cs 
claim history, so decided not to offer her cover.
Mrs C thought this was unfair. She said she was forced into searching the market to take out 
cover with a different insurer which she said resulted in her premiums increasing 
substantially.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt think RSA had acted unfairly 
 he thought RSA had made a transparent decision based on the commercial risks of 
providing Mrs C cover. He didnt think Mrs C had been treated differently to any other 
customers who were in a similar position and he didnt think RSAs actions were the cause of 
Mrs C premiums increasing. Mrs C disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs C was disappointed when RSA decided not to offer her a renewal of 
her policy in 2021. However, I dont think RSA has done anything wrong, so I wont be 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
All insurers provide cover to policyholders on their own terms. Insurers will choose what 
terms and conditions they wish to offer to customers, and they will take decisions on what 
risks they are comfortable with taking and consequently what price they wish to charge 
customers for a policy. These are commercial decisions that an insurer will make routinely, 
and it will impact how successful they are at winning and retaining business with customers. 
I think this is reasonable, provided all customers are treated fairly and in the same way.
RSA has shared its underwriting criteria with our service. I wont share this as its 
commercially sensitive but be assured I have checked this carefully. The underwriting criteria 
sets out the parameters RSA operate under when offering policies to customers. RSAs 
decision not to offer a policy is consistent with the rules it has set out in its underwriting 
criteria. Therefore, I am confident that RSA wouldnt have offered a policy to any customer 
that had a similar claims history to Mrs C. Therefore, I dont think Mrs C has been treated 
unfairly. I think RSA was reasonable to honour the policy offer it made to Mrs C in 2020 as it 
had made an administrative error when processing the application. It didnt want her to be 
penalised for this. However, knowing her circumstances in 2021, I think it has been 
reasonable in not offering the policy.
I know the cost of Mrs Cs insurance cover has now gone up after using a different insurer. 
However, I dont think this can be reasonably argued that the cost of cover has risen due to 
RSAs unfair actions. RSA has simply decided not to offer Mrs C a policy  it hasnt 
cancelled her policy or voided it. I think its more likely the premium is higher for Mrs C 
because of her claim history. Its likely the new insurer has recognised the increased risk and 
has subsequently offered the policy at a higher premium. 
I know Mrs C said she now needs to inform future insurers that she wasnt offered insurance. 
I know this question can sometimes be asked when taking out a new policy, but I still dont 
think this means RSA has acted unreasonably. An insurer is entitled to carry out due 
diligence on prospective customers before taking on their risk.
In summary, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman