DRN-2644153
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Winser Financial 
Services Limited (Winser) to invest part of her self invested personal pension (SIPP) into a 
structured product. She says the investment was too high a risk and inflexible  which has 
caused her to suffer a financial loss she wants to be compensated for. 
What happened
In 2008 Winser recommended that Mr and Mrs P both transferred their existing pension 
plans into a SIPP, which was invested across four main funds. The transfer value of Mrs Ps 
existing plans was £60,890.  
In April 2013 Winser recommended that Mr and Mrs P crystallised their returns from a 
structured product in which they were invested and transferred the capital to another 
structured product called the Reyker UK Equity Plan 1. The recommendation for Mrs P was 
to invest £34,424 into the plan. The rest of the background to this complaint will only explain 
Mrs Ps situation  although Mr P has brought his own complaint which has been considered 
separately. 
The plan had a six year term and was due to mature on 17 May 2019  but it also contained 
a kick out feature which allowed for early repayment in years 3,4 and 5, if certain conditions 
were met. Winser had assessed Mrs Ps attitude to risk (ATR) and scored it as six out of 
ten  which it defined as being high medium. It thought the plan was aligned with such an 
ATR. 
In late 2014 Winser advised Mrs P to transfer her SIPP to a different investment platform.
At a review meeting in November 2016 the total value of Mrs Ps SIPP was £72,094.87
Mrs P engaged a new adviser in May 2017. At that time Mrs P said the adviser told her that 
the Reyker plan wasnt in line with her ATR and that he thought it hadnt provided the 
performance he would have expected.
  
So, in November 2019 Mrs P complained about the advice. She said she had suffered a loss 
on her investment, which she regarded as being high risk instead of the medium high risk 
which had been agreed by evaluating her ATR.
Winser didnt uphold the complaint. It said it thought the risk profile of the plan was in line 
with Mrs P ATR and all the risks involved had been explained to her before she went ahead. 
It also confirmed that, during subsequent annual reviews from 2014 to 2017, the 
performance of the plan  and the risks involved - were reviewed, and Mrs P had expressed 
satisfaction with the recommendation. It said Mrs P had made a profit during the time the 
plan was held, along with the quarterly income that was paid back into the SIPP. So it didnt 
think there were any grounds for upholding the complaint.  
    
Mrs P wasnt happy with that outcome and so she brought her complaint to us. Initially 
Winser objected to us looking into the matter as it said it had been brought outside of the 
time limits allowed. But when the investigator said he thought the complaint could be 
considered Winser accepted his view. So he then considered if Winsers advice to invest into 
the Reyker structured product had been suitable. He thought it had, giving the following 
reasons to support his findings:
An ATR questionnaire had established that Mrs P had a medium to high risk ATR. 
Mrs P accepted this definition and had also accepted it was correct when it was 
reassessed at subsequent annual review meetings.
Mrs P had previous experience of investing in structured products. 
There was no evidence of a risk rating for the plan, but he thought that based on 
the underlying assets, it was more likely than not to be a medium to high risk rated 
product. He did however accept that the previous plan might have been slightly less 
risky as it tracked the performance of the FTSE100 index instead of just three 
individual shares.  
He thought the suitability report and product brochure provided sufficient detail of the 
risks involved and he thought Mrs P was prepared to invest into a medium high risk 
rated strategy.
Although he accepted that Mrs P was disappointed with the returns from the plan, he 
noted that she hadnt suffered a loss.
  
But Mrs P didnt agree. She said the plan was high risk (it didnt actually have risk rating) and 
she wanted it looked into in more detail  particularly with regards to the limited number of 
linked companies that the funds were invested into. 
The investigator said he thought the plan could be classified as falling into a medium to high 
risk category  in line with the agreed risk rating Mrs P had towards her retirement planning. 
He thought Mrs P probably took the view that the plan was a higher risk than the previous 
structured product shed invested in  particularly as the Reyker plan was only invested 
across three shares. But he thought the plan wasnt too high a risk for her ATR, and as she 
had made a profit from the investment when it was surrendered, he didnt think it was 
unsuitable for her.
Mrs P still didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its 
been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I realise this is an 
outcome which will disappoint Mrs P  but I dont think Winsers advice was unsuitable and 
so Ill explain my reasons. 
Mrs P complains that the risk profile of the Reyker plan that was recommended to her wasnt 
consistent with her agreed ATR. 
But she also complains about the performance of the plan and what she thought were poor 
returns. We wouldnt normally uphold a complaint which is purely about investment 
performance alone because the very nature of investments is that their performance can 
vary depending on many factors. But we would look at whether the recommendation was 
suitable, and in this case, whether the risk involved with the plan was correctly aligned to 
Mrs Ps ATR  to see if that was the reason for any perceived lack of performance.So, in order to assess suitability, Ive looked carefully at the documents from the time of the 
advice in 2013. The fact find and accompanying risk profile questionnaire that was 
completed noted that Mrs P was:
Looking to retire in 5-7 years.
Planning to maximise her pension in retirement.
Assessed as having a high medium ATR, reflected by a score of six out of ten on 
the scale used. 
Already held a SIPP valued at approximately £58,600.
So I think Mrs Ps objectives were clear and Ive seen confirmation that her ATR, as set out 
in the risk profile questionnaire, was high medium. Im also satisfied that this was 
consistent with the answers Mrs P gave in the questionnaire, and it hasnt been disputed by 
her as not being the accepted score and associated definition to take forward when 
considering her objectives and circumstances. 
Ive then gone on to look at the reasons for Winsers recommendation and to consider how it 
defined the risk profile of the plan and how it explained this to Mrs P. 
The notes that Winser has provided for the April 2013 meeting showed that it made two 
recommendations. One was a general recommendation to switch the existing funds to a 
new fund. The other was to crystallise the gains on an existing structured product and switch 
the proceeds to the Reyker plan. Winser gave three reasons for switch into the Reyker plan. 
It had a stronger counterparty 
It offered a potentially higher return. 
It could crystallise the capital growth that had been achieved from the existing plan. 
Theres no dispute between the parties that the previous structured product was aligned to 
Mrs Ps ATR, although I havent seen any evidence that either plan was given an official risk 
rating. And I accept that Mrs P would have concluded that, as the previous plan tracked the 
FTSE 100 index and the Reyker plan was based on the performance of just three individual 
company shares, the new recommendation may have had more risk attached. But I dont 
think that necessarily means that it should be regarded as a high risk investment.
Based on the information Ive been provided with relating to the recommendation, Im 
satisfied that it was consistent with investment into a high medium risk rated product. The 
Reyker plan provided potential quarterly income of 2.5% - equivalent to 10% per year, 
depending on the performance of three UK shares. If any of the shares fell by more than 
45% at maturity the capital that was invested could be at risk to some degree. 
So there was an element of capital protection over the term of the plan. And the plan offered 
automatic repayment of the invested capital  known as a kick out, if certain criteria were 
met in years three to five, as well as the opportunity to surrender the plan each week, 
although the capital wasnt guaranteed in that situation. 
 
But I dont think these features are consistent with a high risk investment. And I think its 
reasonable to conclude that the risks attached to the plan were in line with what had been 
agreed as Mrs Ps high medium ATR. 
Ive also gone on to consider Winsers suitability report and whether the accompanying 
literature sufficiently explained the risks involved with the plan. In general, I think the product 
providers brochure that was available did explain all of the various risks involved such as the risk to the investment capital, the risk to the payment of the regular income, and the 
counterparty risk. 
And I note the suitability report stated that, We discussed the investment policy and with the 
economic climate volatile you prefer to continue to have shelter from equity markets falls but 
also the chance to generate significant returns potentially higher than would be achievable 
via cash deposits or fixed term deposits with a portion of the plan. You preferred to have a 
plan with defined returns which could still benefit from any stockmarket increases and with a 
degree of capital protection. Which I think was a reasonable summary of Mrs Ps objectives 
and situation at the time. 
I think the report confirmed how Winser had arrived at Mrs Ps ATR, and I think it then drew 
Mrs Ps attention to the various risks involved in the transaction. Im also satisfied that it 
didnt make any guarantees about the potential returns or the return of Mrs Ps capital. I note 
the plan was described by Winser as being a capital at risk product as opposed to being 
capital protected. 
Ive also taken into account that Mrs P had previously been invested in a quite similar 
structured product  so I think she would have had some experience of how the Reyker plan 
would work, even if the spread of shares that was used to calculate the final financial 
outcome was somewhat smaller. And I note she had a number of subsequent annual 
meetings with Winser, during which the Reyker plans performance and overall performance 
of the SIPP was discussed in detail  as well as discussions regarding her ATR. Theres no 
evidence to suggest that, based on the ongoing information she was provided with, Mrs P 
thought the plan wasnt consistent with her ATR. 
So, on balance Im satisfied that Winsers recommendation was suitable for Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time and that it was broadly a high medium risk product which aligned 
to her agreed ATR. I think Winser set out the overall risks attached to this investment and 
Im satisfied Mrs P was made aware of them through the suitability report and the product 
providers brochure. I also think that the plan information Winser provided Mrs P on an 
annual basis didnt appear to cause her any concerns, and it was only when she was 
informed by her new adviser that the plan might have been too high a risk  that she 
complained. 
But even if I am wrong about my findings around the suitability of the advice, it would appear 
that when looking at the income Mrs P received, along with the return of her outstanding 
capital, she made an overall profit on the investment. 
So, while I understand that she was disappointed with the returns and hoped for more, it 
would be difficult to conclude that Winser should have to make up for any financial losses 
when theres no evidence to support such a claim.  Ultimately, I think the advice was suitable 
and in line with Mrs Ps ATR and Im not going to ask Winser to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman