DRN-1650036
 
complaint
Mr S complains that when he opened an account with Lloyds Bank plc it incorrectly sent his 
personal and account data to a third party.
background
Mr S applied to open a new current account in his sole name with Lloyds on 29 October 
2019. The application was approved and the account opened.
Mr S was then informed by a member of his family, who was not party to the account, that 
they could see details of the account on their online banking. A debit card was also 
incorrectly issued to this family member. 
Mr S complained to Lloyds. He was very unhappy that his personal data had been shared 
with a third party who had nothing to do with his application or new account. He also said 
this had caused him significant distress as he was estranged from the family member 
involved.
Lloyds said there had been a technical error when the account was set up and it had been 
incorrectly linked to the third partys profile. It said it had corrected the error, removed the 
association and ordered a new card for Mr S. In recognition of its error it offered him £500 for 
the upset caused, £50 to cover call and travel costs and also confirmed it would honour the 
£125 switching bonus for opening the account (which had not been processed due to the 
issues).
Mr S did not think the offer went far enough to address the distress caused. So he asked our 
service to consider the complaint.
An investigator looked into Mr S complaint. Having done so they felt that the offer made by 
Lloyds was fair as, while it had made an error, it had acted quickly to resolve the problem.
Mr S didnt agree as he still didnt feel the offer was fair. He also said he wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds explanation of what went wrong. And he mentioned that hed received an email 
addressed to the third party which was after the date that Lloyds had first indicated the 
problems with the linked profiles had been resolved. 
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
 
my findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has acknowledged that it made an error when opening the account. And this led to a 
third party being linked to it and receiving information, including a debit card. I know Mr S is 
unhappy as he feels this shouldnt have happened. But Lloyds agrees with him, it shouldnt  
it isnt in dispute that Lloyds did something wrong. Its not possible to go back and change 
what happened. So what I have to look at is whether Lloyds has acted reasonably in terms 
of how it has tried to put things right.
The information Ive seen shows that Mr S made Lloyds aware of the problem on 
5 November 2019. Lloyds has provided evidence to show that, after it was made aware of 
the issue, it took steps to correct things straight away. The person that dealt with Mr S 
enquiry corrected his contact details, requested that the link to the third partys profile be 
removed and cancelled the previous card and ordered a new one. Lloyds has sent us 
information that shows that Mr S contact details have been amended and match those that 
he provided to us. It has also sent us notes that indicate the work to remove the third party 
customer profile, which was requested when he first raised the issue, was completed on 11 
November 2019. And its shown that a new card was then issued on 15 November 2019. 
Ive looked at the email Mr S received addressed to the third party, which is dated 
10 November 2019. It looks like this was sent the day before the actions to remove the link 
between him and the third party were fully completed. I can understand why it caused Mr S 
additional concern. But it appears this was linked to the original error. 
Mr S has said that this has affected his confidence in Lloyds as hed been told before 
receiving this email that the issues had been resolved. And this is unfortunate. But taking 
into account all of the information provided I think Lloyds took reasonable steps, in a 
reasonable timeframe, to correct its error. Lloyds also sent us a copy of the account 
statements for Mr S account to show there were no transaction made using the cancelled 
card. So there doesnt appear to have been any financial loss as a result of the issue. So 
overall, I think its actions to put the issues with the account right, were fair.
What is left for me to decide is whether the offer of compensation made by Lloyds is fair.
I dont doubt that this was upsetting for Mr S  particularly given what he has explained 
about being estranged from the third party the information was sent to and this causing 
further problems. But the role of our service is to consider complaints informally.  We do not 
fine or punish businesses for errors made, rather we decide what we think is the fair and 
reasonable way to resolve things. And while Ive taken on board what Mr S has said, given 
how quickly Lloyds acted and that there was no direct financial loss, I dont think I can 
reasonably ask it to pay more than it has offered.
So while I know Mr S feels strongly about this, I think the offer made by Lloyds  to pay £500 
for the upset caused and £50 for costs, in addition to honouring the £125 switching incentive, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint as I think the 
offer already made by Lloyds Bank Plc is fair and reasonable.  If Mr S now wishes to accept 
Lloyds offer, he should get in touch with it directly to confirm this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before date.Ben Stoker
Ombudsman