DRN-3329468
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Nutmeg Savings and Investment Limited, trading as Nutmeg, failed to 
invest contributions into an Individual Savings Account (ISA). And instead invested them into 
a General Investment Account (GIA).
What happened
On 5 April 2018, Mrs P invested £12,000 into an ISA with Nutmeg for the 2017/18 tax year. 
The following year, on 5 April, Mrs P paid £19,000 to Nutmeg. This sum was allocated into a 
GIA. There were also regular monthly contributions being paid into the same GIA in the tax 
year 2019/20.
In February 2020, Mrs P complained to Nutmeg that the £19,000 and regular contributions 
were invested outside of an ISA wrapper. Nutmeg provided a final response to the 
complaint. It said that when Mrs P had opened an ISA on-line in 2017/18 shed elected not to 
auto-enrol into an ISA with Nutmeg for the tax-year 2018/19. Nutmeg explained the 
contributions Mrs P made in 2018/19 and 2019/20 had been allocated into a GIA.
Mrs P was unhappy with the response from Nutmeg and brought a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought Nutmeg hadnt 
done anything significantly wrong. The Investigator thought because Mrs P had elected not 
to auto-enrol into an ISA account for 2018/19, Nutmeg didnt do anything wrong when it 
invested the £19,000 and regular contribution into a GIA. This was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Mrs P didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Ps complaint is that she was unable to utilise the ISA allowance for 
2018/19, and that the subsequent regular contributions werent invested into an ISA either. 
Although I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed, for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator, Ive decided that Nutmeg didnt do anything wrong and I wont be upholding the 
complaint. I will now explain why.
When Mrs P opened an on-line ISA with Nutmeg in April 2017/18 there was an option to 
select an auto-enrol for a 2018/19 ISA. Ive seen a screen shot of the 2017/18 ISA 
application process. This shows the auto-enrol option was de-selected by Mrs P. And, when 
Mrs P invested the lump sum in April 2019, theres a screen shot available from the on-line 
process offering a Start an ISA option. This option wasnt selected, so when Mrs P invested 
in 2018/19 the amount was invested into a GIA. The same applied to the regular 
contributions the following tax-year. I dont consider Nutmeg did anything wrong when it did 
this. This is because the terms and conditions of the account state that if the ISA account 
isnt auto enrolled, any future investments will be made into a GIA. It seems reasonable to 
me that Nutmeg took this approach as Mrs P hadnt said she wanted an ISA account with it 
in the following tax-years. 
Mrs P says the documentation received from Nutmeg didnt make it clear the later 
contributions were invested into the GIA. However, Im satisfied the application process and 
documents did make it reasonably clear Mrs P hadnt used her 2018/19 ISA allowance, or 
indeed the 2019/20 allowance. Unfortunately, once Mrs P de-selected the auto-enrol option, 
Nutmeg wouldnt have created an ISA account for the next tax year. So, on 5 April 2019, 
when Mrs P invested a further £19,000, Nutmeg put these funds into a GIA. Mrs P says she 
gave no instruction for it to do this. However, Im satisfied the terms and conditions explained 
what would happen if the funds were received and there was no auto-enrol into an ISA. And 
I think Nutmeg invested the funds as it said it would. 
Mrs P says the ongoing documentation Nutmeg sent combined all of the investments into a 
single pot. Ive seen the valuation report Nutmeg sent Mrs P in January 2020 did breakdown 
which of the investments held ISA status and which ones didnt. Regardless of this, by the 
time Mrs P received a valuation from Nutmeg, the 2018/19 ISA allowance had already been 
missed. And, although its unfortunate Mrs P de-selected the auto-enrol option, Im satisfied 
Nutmeg didnt do anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Nutmeg Savings 
and Investments Limited, trading as Nutmeg, to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman