DRN-2669032
The complaint
Mr Ps complained about the way Veritas Advisors Limited (Veritas) tried to get him to 
pursue a motor accident claim.
What happened
In the second half of 2020, Mr P was a passenger in a car that was involved in an accident.
A couple of weeks after the incident, the driver of the car was contacted by Veritas about 
claiming compensation.  After speaking to them, the driver passed the call over to Mr P.  Mr 
P says he was told that compensation had been set aside for him and asked him for contact 
details  which he provided.
Veritas then emailed Mr P some documentation.  When he read through this, Mr P realised 
that it was an agreement for a legal firm to represent him in a claim  not to arrange payment 
of compensation that was already available.  After speaking with Veritas again, Mr P decided 
not to return the agreement and asked that all his personal information be removed from 
Veritas system.
Mr P complained to Veritas that they were using personal information illegally and soliciting 
further information under false pretences.  He didnt get a response, so he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think that Veritas should pay Mr P any 
compensation.  He explained that Veritas had no record of ever having spoken to Mr P.  The 
personal details they held for him were what hed provided on the first call.  And, because Mr 
P had decided not to proceed with any claim, the inconvenience hed suffered was limited to 
the time hed taken in speaking to Veritas twice.  He didnt think the impact of that 
inconvenience merited compensation.
Mr P provided more information in response to the investigators conclusions.  But that didnt 
change the investigators view that it wasnt appropriate to ask Veritas to do anything more in 
respect of the complaint.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered what happened here  and I can understand from what Ive read 
and heard why Mr Ps concerned.  But Im not satisfied that all the issues hes raised are 
matters that we can look at.
Our role is to consider whether a business has done something wrong in relation to an 
individual consumer.  And  if they have  whether the impact on that consumer means the 
business should do something to put that right.
Its not our role to decide if a business has broken the rules and regulations governing how it 
conducts its business  that the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  I can see that 
Mr P is aware of this. So Im not going to comment on his concerns that Veritas business 
methods were inappropriate and misleading.
Ive thought about the impact of what happened had on Mr P.  Ive had to rely on his 
testimony to do this as Veritas say they have no records of contacting him.  I dont think 
thats unreasonable, because Veritas didnt call him directly  they called the person whod 
been driving the car, who then passed the call over.  And Mr P asked Veritas to remove his 
details from their system  so I cant say its unreasonable there arent any records for me to 
review.
Mr P told us that the Veritas caller induced him to provide personal information by telling him 
compensation had been set aside for him when that wasnt true.  When he provided contact 
details so Veritas could email him, he found that the position wasnt as Veritas had 
represented.
Theres no call recording available for me to listen to so I cant be certain exactly what was 
said.  But Veritas emailed a conditional fee agreement to Mr P for him to sign if he wanted to 
proceed.  This made him aware of the arrangement being offered  which he chose not to 
take up.  So Im satisfied that the telephone conversation (whatever was said) didnt commit 
Mr P to anything before hed had a chance to consider it.
So I think the inconvenience was limited to the call.  This type of cold calling is prevalent in 
modern life and can be annoying.  But I dont think it had any greater impact on Mr P than 
that.  So I dont think its reasonable to say that Veritas should compensate Mr P for calling 
him.
Finally Ive thought about Mr Ps concern that Veritas had obtained his personal data.  Again, 
thats a legitimate concern. 
Theres no evidence to show what personal data (if any) Veritas had before they spoke to Mr 
P.  The only data I can see they had was what Mr P gave them during the call.  In the 
context of generating business, Veritas needed that information to check Mr Ps identity and 
send him documents to start a claim.
Ive seen that Mr P contacted the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) very shortly after 
he spoke to Veritas.  Following their guidance, he contacted Veritas and told them he 
wanted his personal data erased from their system.  
Veritas said theyd do that.  And, when our investigator contacted them, Veritas had no 
record of Mr P.  So I think the most likely outcome of that conversation is that Veritas did 
delete Mr Ps data.  
If he wants to check that, Mr P can make a subject access request (SAR) to Veritas to see 
what data (if any) they now hold.  But, on the basis of the information Ive been given, I dont 
think its reasonable for me to say that Veritas shouldve dealt with his request differently.      
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Veritas Advisors 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman