DRN-2491421
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with FirstRand Bank 
Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here 
was around seven and a half years old and had completed about 49,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if the engine management light was illuminated and the car was 
emitting white smoke. I think they would have considered it was likely there was something 
wrong with the engine. 
This is a finely balanced complaint as neither Mr C, or the business have been able to 
provide much evidence about what happened before the car was supplied, in the months 
before Mr C made a complaint to MotoNovo.
Im persuaded that there was an agreement to resolve an issue with the cars engine 
compression before the car was handed over to Mr C because Mr C says there was and 
because the dealership agree. They said:
it (the car) had a problem when he viewed it and he (Mr C) left a deposit and we repaired it 
(new piston to cylinder number 3)
But its clear the work to the piston wasnt finished to a satisfactory standard when the car 
was supplied because Ive seen a job card for work completed to replace the piston on 
cylinder 3 on 15 June 2017, less than a month after Mr C took receipt of the car.
That supports Mr Cs testimony that when he received the car the Engine Management Light 
was on and the car was emitting white smoke. There was clearly a fault when the car was 
supplied and as the June repair was within the first 30 days Mr C could have invoked his 
right to reject the car at that point. He didnt and Im persuaded he most probably accepted 
repairs to the car.
Thereafter Mr C says he experienced constant problems with the engine and that the EML 
was regularly illuminated. Hes explained that he could drive the car, but it misfired, cut out 
and went into limp mode on occasions.
Mr C says he had to take the car back to the dealership for repairs on several occasions but 
the dealership dispute this. They say they only saw Mr C when a turbo pipe split and when 
they needed to supply locking nuts. 
They say they cant provide job cards as their system has changed. But that seems an 
unlikely explanation as I note they were able to provide evidence of the piston replacement 
when the first independent inspection did not support their argument. So, I think evidence of 
the suggested turbo pipe repair, from around the same time, should be available and, as it 
isnt, I find Mr Cs testimony more compelling.
There have been two independent engineering assessments that both highlight the same 
issues with loss of compression and oil ingress. They support the findings of the VW 
mechanic who says the car needs a new engine. 
So, I think its likely there was a fault with the pistons/cylinders of this car before it was 
supplied and that repairs have failed to rectify the problem. The relevant legislation allows 
the business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present or developing in a car when 
supplied. If that repair fails, as I think is the case here, they should allow the consumer to 
reject the vehicle.
  
Putting things right
MotoNovo should allow Mr C to reject the car and they should end his finance agreement. 
They should refund any deposit thats been paid, and they should add 8% simple interest per 
year to that refund as Mr C has been deprived of that money.
By the time of the second independent inspection Mr C had covered about 15,000 miles in 
the car in two and a half years. I think that suggests he had had moderate use of the vehicle 
and whilst I understand he asserts the car has not been drivable since March 2020 hes not 
been able to provide any evidence of that. I think its clear Mr Cs enjoyment of the car has been spoilt and he has had some loss of use. In the circumstances, I would agree with the 
investigator that 10% of all finance instalments paid should be refunded. MotoNovo will 
again need to add interest to that refund as Mr C has been deprived of the money.
Mr C has explained that hes stopped making payments towards the car. Whilst I understand 
his reasoning for that hes not provided sufficient evidence that the car is no longer driveable 
and Im therefore not asking MotoNovo to provide any further refunds or to waive payments 
that havent been made. 
If Mr C can provide invoices for any diagnostics hes paid for in relation to this issue 
MotoNovo should refund them; again, with interest.
Mr C has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think its fair to say it could have been resolved earlier and hes had to take 
his car back to the garage to have repairs completed and to attend independent inspections. 
In the circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay him £150 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
refund 10% of all finance instalments Mr C has paid in respect of loss of use and loss 
of enjoyment and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
refund the cost of any related diagnostic report Mr C provides evidence of;
pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman