DRN-2262460
The complaint
Mr D, trading as JSK, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) gave him misleading 
information about his business current account application  specifically that it told him the 
account would be opened. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Mr D is unhappy he was told his business current account would be opened, and that 
Lloyds made the decision not to open it after hed already received a debit card and cheque 
book. Lloyds has acknowledged the service it provided couldve been better and, from what 
Ive seen, Id agree Lloyds couldve been clearer with Mr D. Nonetheless, Mr D accepts that 
Lloyds has the freedom to decide who it wishes to offer its banking services to. 
 Ive looked to see that Lloyds treated Mr D fairly, and as it would other new customers. 
Lloyds has shown that it carried out its usual account opening procedures when it processed 
Mr Ds application, which included carrying out credit reference and fraud prevention checks. 
Following these checks and the information it received, it decided not to open Mr Ds 
business current account. As Ive said above, I think Lloyds couldve been clearer in 
communicating with Mr D. But Im satisfied it made a fair and reasonable decision and I dont 
think it treated Mr D any differently than it would have another new customer.
 Lloyds has apologised to Mr D, and paid him £75 compensation, for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. In the overall circumstances, I think £75 is a fair and reasonable 
amount. I appreciate Mr D wouldve been frustrated by the misleading information, but the 
account wasnt operational, so I dont think it was something hed have been reliant upon. 
On that basis Im satisfied Lloyds decision not to open the account didnt have an impact on 
Mr Ds overall position.  
 Im sorry to read Mr Ds comments about the impact to his mental health at an already 
difficult time. But, for the reasons Ive given above, I think the £75 compensation already 
paid by Lloyds is enough to recognise the inconvenience it caused. So I dont require it to do 
anything more. 
 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman