DRN-3980905
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account without providing a reason 
or notice and registered a default against his name. Hed like his account reopened and 
compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Mr O had an account with Barclays.
On 12 October 2022 Barclays issued Mr O with a 60 day notice to close. However, on 
7 November 2022 Barclays sent a further letter notifying Mr O they were closing his account 
immediately. On closing Mr Os account Barclays asked him to provide proof of entitlement 
to the funds. 
Mr O complained to Barclays about the account closure, the restriction of his account and a 
default recorded on his credit file. He also advised that hed incurred late payment charges 
and extra interest charged on a loan which entered his account immediately prior to the 
closure. 
Barclays reviewed Mr Os complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought theyd acted fairly in 
closing his account, and restricting access to his funds. 
Mr O wasnt happy with Barclays response so brought his complaint to our service.
On the complaint coming to our service, Barclays reviewed their position and made an offer 
 Barclays thought they shouldnt have closed Mr Os account without notice and his funds 
should have been made available to him. Barclays offered £50 compensation and 8% 
interest from 7 November 2022 to 19 December 2022. 
Mr O didnt accept the offer. Our investigator reviewed Barclays offer but didnt think it was 
fair. They thought the 8% interest should go up to the date Mr Os funds were released to 
him in January 2023. And they werent satisfied Barclays had acted fairly in recording a 
default against Mr O. So asked them to remove it and in total pay £200 compensation.
Barclays accepted our investigators view. 
Mr O only accepted in part. He agreed to the recommendation made, but in addition he also 
asked for his account to be reopened. Our investigator explained that they didnt think this 
was something which was fair in Mr Os circumstances, but Mr O didnt accept. 
As Mr O didnt agree its been passed to me to decide.
I contacted Mr O and explained that I didnt think Barclays were required to reopen his 
account, and why. But Mr O asked if he didnt receive compensation could his account be re-
opened instead. As Mr O didnt agree, Ive moved to issue my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os agreed to our investigators recommendation for compensation, and the removal of 
the default. So I wont address these complaint points. Instead, Ill consider whether or not 
Barclays should reopen Mr Os account. I've considered this, and I know this will disappoint 
Mr O however I'm afraid I don't think they should reopen his account. I've explained why 
below. 
  
Mr Os highlighted that there are certain specific circumstances when our service would 
expect a bank to reopen a customer's account. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr O but Im 
satisfied these don't apply in this case. As long as it doesnt discriminate a bank is entitled to 
make a decision as to who it would like to contract with. This is the same as the right a 
customer has to choose who theyd like to bank with. But, they need to apply their terms and 
conditions fairly. Which Im satisfied Barclays did. I realise this will disappoint Mr O but they 
were entitled to close his account  by giving 60 days' notice - without providing Mr O with a 
reason. It follows, I wont be asking Barclays to reopen Mr Os account. 
 
Putting things right
Barclays should remove the default recorded against Mr O and pay £200 compensation for 
the immediate closure of his account. And pay 8% interest for depriving Mr O of access to 
his funds from 7 November 2022 to the date they were released. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Remove the default marker recorded against Mr O
Pay Mr O £200 compensation
Pay Mr O 8% simple interest on the funds in his account from 7 November 2022 to 
the date of release
HM Revenue & Customs require Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. HSBC should give Mr O a certificate showing how much is taken 
off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman