DRN-3573519
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to disclose information to her about 
accounts in her name (that she didnt open herself). She also says they applied an invalid 
Power of Attorney (POA) to those accounts.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
From 2003 onwards around 23 accounts with Nationwide were opened in Mrs Bs name. In 
late 2020 Mrs B contacted Nationwide to ask about accounts that were open in her name. 
Shed recently found some documentation at home and she didnt believe she had any 
accounts with Nationwide. 
Mrs B was in the process of going through divorce proceedings and alleged that her ex-
husband had opened the accounts without her knowledge or permission. She was also 
aware that there was a POA in relation to the accounts in her name, that gave her ex-
husbands parents permission to administer the accounts. 
Mrs B complained that Nationwide had allowed accounts in her name to be opened without 
her consent  she was also unhappy with the POA being applied. Further to this she is 
unhappy that Nationwide didnt disclose all the information about the accounts to her and 
believes that this had an impact on the settlement figure she achieved at court in her divorce 
proceedings. She would like Nationwide to compensate her for this and also for the distress 
and inconvenience shes been caused. 
One of our Investigators didnt think this was a complaint we could consider. She felt it was 
outside our jurisdiction as Mrs B wasnt an eligible complainant. Mrs B disagreed and asked 
for an Ombudsman to make a decision. Ive already issued a separate jurisdiction decision 
explaining the extent to which I can consider Mrs Bs complaint. And in June 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision, part of this said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I dont doubt Mrs Bs integrity, she has changed her testimony as to what has 
happened. Initially she claimed she hadnt opened any accounts, and later she accepted she 
had opened some. I appreciate that with the passage of time memories will fade. But the 
inconsistencies do make it more difficult to place a great deal of weight on Mrs Bs testimony 
as reliable and credible evidence. 
As Mrs B accepts she opened three accounts, I believe she has effectively withdrawn her 
complaint that she didnt open those accounts  so this isnt something Im going to 
comment on further.  
Mrs B alleges that Nationwide didnt disclose information to her and that this put her at a 
disadvantage in her divorce proceedings. I clearly cannot comment on the outcome the court 
reached. But part of the evidence Mrs B has provided indicates that the judge instructed 
Nationwide to disclose documents to the court. It appears that Nationwide promptly complied 
with that direction. 
So even if Nationwide ought to have provided more information to Mrs B sooner than it did, I 
dont agree that this would have made a difference. Its evident that where the judge required 
further information, an order was made for it to be provided. 
Similarly, Mrs B has alleged that the POA shouldnt have been applied to her accounts. 
Again, the judges finding on this matter was that Mrs B herself had signed the POA. The 
judge also found that its likely that the witnessing signatures were added later as the two 
witnesses dated their signatures on different days. 
So whilst this is probably something Nationwide ought to have picked up before accepting 
the document. Again, I dont think this would have made a difference overall. Had 
Nationwide challenged this, I think its most likely Mrs B would have gone on to sign a further 
document at the request of her (then) husband. If she was prepared to sign the first, I dont 
think there is a persuasive argument to explain that she would have done anything differently 
shortly afterwards. All the evidence supports that, at that time, Mrs B trusted her husband 
and would sign financial documentation that he asked her to. So, whilst there was an error 
by Nationwide, I cant say its had an impact.
I accept that Mrs B has some health problems which she attributes to the actions of 
Nationwide and the stress she says shes been caused. But going through divorce 
proceedings is always likely to be a very difficult and stressful time. Much of what Mrs B is 
unhappy about falls outside our jurisdiction (including the opening of, activity on, and sharing 
of information about accounts she didnt open). I make no findings on those matters and they 
cant be included in any consideration for compensation. And for what I can consider, on the 
evidence so far, I dont think Nationwide have provided poor service to the extent that a 
compensatory award is appropriate.
Nationwide responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mrs B made some brief further 
comments which Ill address below. Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I 
can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says that Nationwide were negligent with her in so many ways. She believes Ive 
implied she is responsible for everything that happened, and that Nationwide arent being 
held to account. 
Ive considered this but (to the extent that Im able to consider this complaint), I dont agree. 
Ive acknowledged that some things could have potentially gone better, but Im not 
persuaded this impacted on the outcome of Mrs Bs court case or caused her any detriment. 
And I dont agree that a compensation award is appropriate in these circumstances. So, Im 
not going to change the outcome explained in my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman