DRN-3503396
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) transferred his personal 
pension with a lower value than it should have and that it caused delays in putting this right. 
What happened
In mid-February 2020, Mr B enquired about moving his pension to another provider, which Ill 
call the receiving scheme. A few weeks later, Aviva answered Mr Bs questions and gave 
him a transfer value of £19,776.49. On 27 March 2020, Aviva received a transfer request 
from Mr Bs receiving scheme. On 30 March 2020, Mr B said he wanted to go ahead, after 
being told the transfer value was now £14,880.51. And, on 2 April 2020, Aviva processed 
this in cash for a value of £14,544.91. 
Mr B complained to Aviva that it transferred £335.60 less than the value it gave him on 
30 March 2020. And that hed lost a further £4,895.98, as it didnt freeze and place his funds 
into cash when he first contacted it in February 2020. 
Aviva responded saying it wouldnt move funds into cash without being asked to do so. It 
said values arent guaranteed and that Covid-19 had a big impact. Aviva said it had 
everything it needed to transfer Mr Bs funds on 30 March 2020 though, so it would honour 
the £14,880.51 transfer value and contact his receiving scheme about any loss. And it 
offered Mr B £50 compensation for the error. 
In September 2020, after chasing Aviva with no reply, Mr B brought his complaint to our 
service adding that it still hadnt made a payment for the £335.60 error. He also said hes lost 
trust in Aviva and doesnt see how his fund value could have dropped so much since 
February 2020  he said the information it eventually sent him doesnt explain this. 
One of our investigators looked into it and said he wouldnt have expected Aviva to put 
Mr Bs fund into cash given he initially only made an enquiry. He said Aviva should establish 
whether the £335.60 error caused Mr B a loss though. Mr B accepted this and Aviva went on 
to pay him a further £350 compensation for delays in resolving this. But he didnt hear from it 
about whether it caused him a loss, so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I told Mr B that Aviva has shown us that, in June 2021, his receiving scheme provided it with 
a comparison between his current fund value and what it would have been if the additional 
£335.60 had been transferred in April 2020. And that this showed a loss of £341.60. I said 
Avivas told us it paid this amount into Mr Bs fund that month, which means Im minded to 
say its done what Id expect to put its error right. I let Mr B know though that Avivas said he 
can provide a statement showing the transfer and the funds he invested in for it to do a 
comparison. So I invited Mr B to provide any further information that he thinks supports why 
his loss was more. And I said I currently think the £400 compensation Aviva has already paid 
him in total is fair and reasonable.
Mr B responded saying, in summary, that while Aviva claims to have transferred an amount 
to his fund this took fourteen months and it hasnt confirmed this. Mr B said the comparison 
should have been carried out from April 2020 rather than April 2021. He also said hes asked 
his receiving scheme to carry out the comparison for him. And that Aviva hasnt treated him 
fairly, hes spent two weeks on this and it should compensate him a further £10 per day. 
I sent Mr B a copy of his receiving schemes comparison, showing the dates it used were 
from April 2020 to June 2021. And, in response, Mr B said this shows his fund had grown by 
around 25% since, so he expects payment of £335.60 plus £86.29 for lost growth. 
I told Mr B that the loss calculation was provided by his receiving scheme, which is in the 
best position to tell us this. And that I dont think the direct comparison hes drawing between 
the growth of his overall fund and the growth hes lost out on due to Avivas error can be 
made here. I also let Mr B know that his receiving schemes told us it received £341.60 from 
Aviva. But, as this was sat unmatched, its applying this to his fund as of the date it received 
this so that theres no disadvantage to him. And I said that what his receiving scheme did 
with this is a matter for it rather than Aviva. 
In response, Mr B said redress of £341.60 isnt correct, as the facts dont lie and the 
calculation shows his fund had a growth rate of around 25%, which means the missing 
£335.60 would have grown by the same rate if transferred correctly. He added that he 
suspects the payment sitting unmatched to his fund was Avivas error in not sending his 
customer reference number. And that the £400 compensation already paid is pitiful given it 
was for the original poor service and doesnt take into account that this has been ongoing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not asking Aviva to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
As Mr B no longer seems to be complaining that Aviva should honour the initial transfer 
value he was given in February 2020, Ill only briefly say I wouldnt expect Aviva to have 
frozen and put his funds into cash when he first got in touch with it. That would have been 
premature given it seems he didnt ask it to and was just making enquiries at that stage, 
rather than requesting a transfer. It isnt in dispute that the value wasnt guaranteed and it 
seems the transfer request wasnt made until a month later. Performance is market 
dependent and Ive no reason to doubt what Avivas said about the drop in value during that 
time. So I cant hold it responsible for this.
Turning to the crux of Mr Bs complaint that Aviva then transferred his pension with a value
£335.60 lower than it should have, Aviva doesnt dispute that it made an error here, so the
outstanding issue is whether I think it has done enough to put this right.
My aim is to put Mr B back in the position he would have been in as far as possible but for 
this mistake. To do so Id usually say a comparison should be made between the current and
notional value of his pension fund, the latter being the value had Aviva done what it should
have at the time. And where theres a difference that is a loss then that amount should be 
paid into his fund to make up for the mistake. But I maintain that Avivas shown me its 
already done this by paying £341.60 into Mr Bs fund, based on a comparison carried out in 
line with this by his receiving scheme.
I appreciate Mr Bs said his loss was more based on the growth of his fund since the 
transfer. And Ive taken his comments into account. But I dont think its reasonable to 
consider the overall fund here in the way he has, as each pound he invested doesnt 
represent the same investment. Within Mr Bs fund he invested different amounts in different 
funds which will have performed differently, some better than others. And the make-up of his fund is also likely to have changed since he made the transfer. So my decision  that I dont 
think the direct comparison hes drawing between the growth of his overall fund and the 
growth hes lost out on due to Avivas error can be made here  remains the same.
As explained, my aim is to put Mr B back in the position he would have been in as far as
possible. And I think its important to bear in mind the information was provided by his
receiving scheme about what they say he would have done and that its in the best position 
to tell us this. So I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on it and I see no reason to debate this 
further.
Mr B suspects Avivas responsible for the £341.60 sitting unmatched to his fund. But, either 
way, his receiving scheme has said its applying the funds as of the date it received this so 
theres no disadvantage to him. So Im not asking Aviva to do anything further.  
Turning to compensation, Im not going to ask Aviva to pay Mr B a daily amount for the time 
taken, as we look at the overall impact in the circumstances. And for me to consider 
awarding further compensation I think Aviva needed to have caused Mr B considerable 
distress, upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience, but Im not persuaded thats the 
case here. 
Aviva has made errors, particularly with the £335.60 difference in transfer value and causing 
a lengthy delay in putting this right. I can see it failed to follow up on this for several months, 
which has understandably caused Mr B frustration. But Aviva has recognised its errors. And 
Mr Bs complaint has been with us for much of the time hes been waiting, so fortunately he 
hasnt been put to the frustration and inconvenience of corresponding with Aviva directly. 
And, even if Aviva didnt send Mr Bs customer reference number with the £341.60 payment, 
I cant fairly say that him recently finding out this sat unmatched has caused him any further 
distress or inconvenience given he thought it hadnt been paid at all.  
This means I think the £400 total compensation that Avivas already paid Mr B is a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances and Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman