DRN-2839931
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that Allay Claims Ltd (Allay) delayed in dealing with the payment he 
was due following a successful claim to recover mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
 which he says caused him financial loss.
What happened
In 2019, Mr M signed a letter of authority allowing Allay to investigate whether hed been 
mis-sold PPI  and to pursue a claim to recover that for him.  The terms and conditions 
attached to the authority stated that Allays fee for this would be payable if a claim were 
successful and would be 24% (inclusive of VAT) of any amount recovered.
In April 2020, a bank Ill call L upheld Mr Ms claim and agreed to pay him £7,455.43 (before 
tax) to settle his claim.  
L sent the offer to Allay in a letter dated 9 April 2020.  Allay received this on 20 April and 
sent details on to Mr M on 22 April.  On 29 April Mr M contacted Allay to tell them hed not 
had anything about Ls offer.  Allay emailed it to him.  
Allay told Mr M hed need to fill out the payment instruction form and send it to L.  And that L 
had 28 days from when they received this to make payment.  They warned Mr M that there 
were delays with some lenders, due to Covid-19 restrictions.
Mr M signed the payment instruction and returned it by email to Allay on 30 April.  So he 
expected to receive his payment by 28 May.  Allay forwarded the request to L by email.
Mr M didnt receive payment by 28 May, so he telephoned Allay, who suggested it might be 
quicker to ring L himself.  Mr M says, when he did that, L told him they didnt accept signed 
instructions by email.
Mr M received his payment from L on 2 June.
Mr M complained to Allay about the delay in receiving his payment, which he calculated to 
be almost two months.  He said Allay were slow in forwarding the offer to him.  And theyd 
caused delay by emailing his payment instructions to L  which L didnt accept.  He said the 
delay had cost him a significant amount of money and he expected to be compensated.
Allay rejected Mr Ms complaint.  They said that theyd dealt with the matter promptly, given 
the need to adjust due to the pandemic, and that there were two bank holidays in April.  
They said theyd advised Mr M that L had 28 days to pay him after they received his 
instruction.  And they said L had never indicated to them sending his payment instruction by 
email wasnt acceptable.
Mr M didnt accept Allays resolution and brought his complaint to us.  He told us Allay take a 
large fee, for which he felt he should get a first class service.  But he didnt.  
Our investigator looked into the matter and concluded Allay didnt need to do anything more 
to resolve the complaint.  She said that Allay hadnt caused the delay in Mr M receiving his 
payment.  And she said that Allays fee is based on the success of the claim, not on the 
services provided.  So she said Allay were entitled to their full fee.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr M thinks Allay should have done things better.  Hes referred throughout to 
expecting top quality service.  But thats not what Im considering.  Im looking at whether 
Allay did anything wrong in how they dealt with Mr M  and, if they did, whether they should 
do something to recognise that.
As our investigator said, Allays fees were due if Mr M received a payment from L.  The fees 
are set out in the terms attached to the letter of authority Mr M signed.  Theyre clearly stated 
to be 24% of whatever he recovers.  Mr Ms claim was successful, so  on the face of it  
Allays fee is payable.
Ive thought about the issues Mr Ms raised in his complaint and whether those concerns 
mean Allay should compensate Mr M in some way.  I know Mr M feels not only that Allay 
delayed, but that caused him to miss out on an investment he was planning to make.  But Ill 
only consider that if I think Allay did something wrong. 
Ive seen the offer letter.  Its dated 9 April  but that doesnt necessarily mean it was sent 
that day.  Its clear from their business file that Allay didnt receive the offer until 20 April.  I 
dont know why they didnt get it earlier.  But I cant say theyre responsible for any delay 
before 20 April.  Once they got the letter, they contacted Mr M by 22 April to tell him and 
asking him to contact them if hed not had a copy.  I think thats reasonable.
Mr M didnt get the details of the offer from L as anticipated.  But, when he did as Allay 
suggested, and contacted them, they emailed Mr M a copy the same day  with advice 
about what to do next.  So I cant say there was delay by Allay here.
Mr M returned his payment instruction to Allay on 30 April.  Allay emailed it to L the next day.  
Mr M has said that L required the instruction to be posted to them.  And his payment was 
delayed because Allay didnt do that.  He believes it was only because he spoke to L himself 
and followed up that he got his money.
Ive thought carefully about this.  Ls offer letter asked for the payment instruction to be 
completed and returned in the envelope provided.  And the instruction does say L wont 
accept a photocopied document  although it doesnt mention how it would treat documents 
received via email.
But Ive considered all the circumstances of the payment here.  When they sent him Ls 
offer, Allay told Mr M that it could take 28 days from when L received his payment instruction 
to receive his payment  but that lenders were suffering delays due to Covid-19 restrictions.  
Mr M returned the instruction on 30 April.  That meant his payment should have been with 
him by Thursday, 28 May.  He received it the following Tuesday, 2 June.  I dont think thats 
unreasonable given the situation at the time.  Even if Allay caused a delay (which isnt clear), 
the delay was only one or two working days, for which I dont think Mr M needs to be 
compensated.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman