DRN-2138591
The complaint
Mr C complains that a hotel room he paid for using his Amazon credit card, issued By 
NewDay Ltd, wasnt as described. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr C booked a hotel room through a booking website. Before making the 
booking, he contacted the hotel to explain that he needed a room for three adults and two 
children. The hotel replied to say that it had one room type that was suitable, which had two 
queen-size beds and a pull-out couch. 
Mr C completed his booking. The booking confirmation showed that he booked a Queen 
Room with Two Queen Beds with Balcony  Harbor View and that Mr Cs group comprised 
three adults and two children. The notes included: Please note additional supplements (eg 
extra bed) are not added to this total. 
When Mr C arrived at the hotel, he found out that it contained beds for only four people, not 
five. The hotel was unable to provide a different room or an extra bed. Mr C says he had to 
sleep on the floor. 
Because he paid for the hotel room using his credit card, Mr C contacted NewDay. In some 
circumstances, a credit card provider is liable in the same way as a supplier of goods or 
services for breaches of contract or misrepresentations. 
NewDay didnt think, however, it was liable in this case. Mr C had made the payment and 
had received what he and the hotel had agreed. Mr C didnt agree and referred the matter to 
this service. One of our investigators considered it, but broadly agreed with NewDay. Whilst 
Mr C had requested and extra bed, the hotel hadnt confirmed that it would provide one. Mr 
C had booked a room that could accommodate four guests, and that is what was provided. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons. 
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, subject to certain 
conditions being met, a customer who has a claim for breach of a contract funded by the 
credit card can bring a like claim against the card provider. Im satisfied those conditions are 
met here. NewDay says however that Mr C has no valid claim for breach of contract against 
the hotel, because it provided Mr C with a room as it agreed to do. 
I can see that Mr C asked about rooms which could accommodate five guests and was told 
that the hotel did have such rooms. His booking confirmation showed that his party 
comprised five people in total. He might therefore have expected the hotel to check his 
booking and his requirements with him. However, the booking also shows that Mr C booked 
a room with two queen-size beds only; he didnt book or pay for an additional bed. In my 
view, he was provided with the room he booked and paid for. In the circumstances, I think it 
was reasonable for NewDay to take the view that there was no breach of contract and to 
decline Mr Cs claim.   
NewDay initially raised Mr Cs claim as a chargeback  which is a way of disputing certain 
card payments through the card scheme. There was however no dispute about the payment 
itself, in the sense that Mr C made and authorised it. And, as Ive explained, it appears that 
Mr C received the service he paid for. I dont believe therefore that NewDay can reasonably 
be expected to have done any more in this case. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require NewDay Ltd to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman