DRN-4146253
The complaint
Mr H complains that Charles Stanley & Co Ltd held his personal data and wrote to him, as 
prior to a letter he received from them, they were an unknown company to him. 
What happened
On 24 September 2022 Mr H received a letter from Charles Stanley, asking for feedback. Mr 
H was unfamiliar with Charles Stanley and replied, asking them to delete his name from their 
contact list and confirm once that was completed. In October, Charles Stanley explained 
they would stop sending him marketing correspondence, but would continue to send him 
information that related to a bond for which they were the intermediary. Mr H replied to 
explain that he hadnt ever been a customer of theirs and was unhappy with their refusal to 
delete all his personal data. 
Charles Stanley explained Mr H had taken out a bond in 1995 via a company they acquired 
in 2007, Garrison Investment Analysis, which is why they held his personal details. Post-
acquisition the servicing agent responsibility for the bond was transferred to Charles 
Stanley, so Mr H had become their customer. Mr H remained unhappy with this, so Charles 
Stanley arranged to remove themselves as the servicing agent with the bond provider. 
Following their request on 17 November 2022, the bond provider completed this on 15 
December 2022. 
Mr H remained unhappy as he wanted Charles Stanley to fully delete his personal data from 
their systems and brought his complaint to our service. Charles Stanley explained to us that 
they would delete the data they held for Mr H, with the exception of the complaint file for this 
complaint. An investigator at our service found that Charles Stanleys offer to delete most of 
the data was fair. Mr H didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman, and so its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that this case involved two main questions for me to answer  firstly is it fair and 
reasonable for Charles Stanley to have held Mr Hs contact information, and so to have 
written to him in September. Secondly, whether theyve complied in a fair and reasonable 
manner with Mr Hs request to delete his personal data.
From the evidence Ive received, Im satisfied Mr H took out his bond via Garrison 
Investment Analysis  and I note Mr H hasnt disputed that he was sold the bond by that 
company. 
Its common place within the investment industry that when a company who sells a long-term 
investment, like the bond Mr H has, the seller retains certain obligations towards the 
customer, as the servicing agent for the investment. This involves the seller keeping the 
customers details on file for the length of the investment. So, I consider it reasonable that 
Charles Stanley held Mr Hs details and treated him as a customer, having taken over the 
responsibilities of Garrison Investment Analysis. 
I can see that the letter which prompted the complaint is a request for feedback about the 
service that Charles Stanley provides. I appreciate Mr H didnt receive a recent service to 
have prompted this request for feedback. But it seems Charles Stanley had made a decision 
to write to many customers requesting this feedback, regardless of how recently a service 
had been provided. Though I appreciate the letter was unexpected for Mr H, I consider it to 
be a matter of Charles Stanleys discretion as to whether to write to customers in this way, in 
these circumstances. Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Charles 
Stanley to have held Mr Hs contact details and to have written to him in September 2022. 
Mr H appears unhappy that his personal details are not being completely deleted, as those 
about his complaint will not be deleted. Before I go further into my findings on this point, I 
should explain that its not my role to state whether a rule or law has been breached  rather 
its to make a finding as to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In doing so, I do 
take into account relevant rules and law. 
Specifically, Ive considered this complaint in light of the regulations that Charles Stanley 
must follow when handling complaints and personal data. 
I consider the complaint handling rules to be relevant here, which are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, and are commonly known 
as DISP. Under DISP 1.9, firms must keep records of complaints for set periods of time, and 
under DISP 1.10 they must report on these complaints to their regulator. So, if Charles 
Stanley were to delete all records of Mr Hs complaint, they would risk non-compliance with 
these rules. 
Ive also considered the data protection rules, which allow for an individual to request that 
their data is completely erased. I note there are exceptions to the right to erasure, including 
in compliance with a legal obligation. 
Ive carefully considered this background, against which Charles Stanley has made the 
decision not to delete Mr Hs complaint data. Having done so, and particularly given the 
exceptions under the data protection rules, and Charles Stanleys regulatory obligations, Im 
persuaded that Charles Stanleys refusal to delete the data they hold about Mr Hs 
complaint, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In summary, Im satisfied it was reasonable that Charles Stanley held Mr Hs contact details 
and that they wrote to him in September 2022. I also consider it reasonable for Charles 
Stanley to choose not to delete the information they hold regarding Mr Hs complaint.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman