DRN-3464051
The complaint
D complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked and closed its account and continues to 
withhold money that was held in it. 
What happened
In October 2018, D received two substantive payments from different parties into its account 
totalling over £200,000. Lloyds blocked Ds account following this and carried out a review. It 
asked D to show where these funds had come from and how it was entitled to them. 
D's director spoke to Lloyds and provided it with information. 
A little later, in November 2018, Lloyds decided to close Ds account  and gave it two 
months notice it was doing so. Unhappy with Lloyds actions, D complained. 
Lloyds did not uphold Ds complaint. In summary, it said it didnt have to give a reason for 
making the decision to close Ds accounts, and the funds it was withholding would not be 
released to D as they were confirmed as fraudulent. 
D referred its complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into the matter, and 
in summary they found: 
- Lloyds blocked and reviewed Ds account in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations 
- D hasnt provided satisfactory evidence that its entitled to the funds, and so Lloyds is 
acting fairly by continuing to withhold them
- Ds account was closed by Lloyds in line with its terms and conditions
 
- Lloyds dont need to refund any charges to D as any applied were for when it had 
access to the account in September 2018
 
D did not agree with what our Investigator said. It says there is no logic in concluding it 
hasnt provided satisfactory information to show its entitlement to the funds. D adds that 
Lloyds cannot make serious allegations against it without explaining the nature of them. 
Our Investigator explained Lloyds can hold onto the funds without explanation and are 
permitted to do so under the regulatory obligations it has to follow. 
As D remained unhappy, this complaint has now been passed to me  an Ombudsman - to 
decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint D, so 
Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Lloyds reasons to review and block Ds account, Im satisfied it didnt do 
anything wrong by doing so. 
Lloyds is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it.  But 
before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. I note Lloyds gave D two months notice, but this was whilst blocks 
remained. 
Ordinarily, if the full notice as per its terms are given by a Bank, Id be persuaded it acted 
fairly as long as its customer had normal access to their account. But that hasnt happened 
here. Where thats the case, I need to look at the reasons Lloyds acted in this way and find 
whether it still acted fairly. 
Lloyds have given me information which Im satisfied shows it had reason enough to have 
closed the account in the way it has. That means I dont think it has done anything wrong by 
deciding to close the account in the way it has.  
That brings me onto the crux of this complaint, that is whether Lloyds are acting fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with obligations placed on it, by continuing to hold onto the funds it 
says were confirmed as fraudulent. 
D says it wants to know more details about why Lloyds are saying these funds are the 
proceeds of fraud.  But neither Lloyds nor this service are under any obligation, that Im 
aware of, which says we must disclose any specific reasons. 
What I do need to determine is whether the information Lloyds has given to me is enough to 
show it has acted fairly by withholding these funds. In reaching my finding on this point, Ive 
also looked carefully at everything D has given me to show its entitled to these funds. 
Having done that, Im persuaded on balance, that Lloyds are acting in line with any 
obligations placed on it and are acting both fairly and reasonably by continuing to withhold 
the funds. That means, Im satisfied Lloyds has concern enough about the funds to have 
taken the actions it has in withholding them from D. 
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, Im satisfied from the records Lloyds have given 
me that it hasnt unfairly charged D for the use of its account before it was closed. Thats 
because any charges administered around that period were for September  when D had 
the unfettered use of its account. Charges were applied later when the blocks were in place, 
but I can see they were refunded before the account was closed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman