DRN-3867260
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she says was stolen 
from her.
What happened
On 17 October 2022 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I gave both parties 
an opportunity to respond with further information before I issued my final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below. 
What happened 
In 2017 Mrs H received almost £50,000 from the estate of her late son. A few days later a 
payment of £45,000 was made from her own account to that of a third party that Ill call K. 
Of that £45,000, £30,000 was paid into another of Mrs Hs accounts held at a different 
bank.
It is alleged that K, a neighbour of Mrs H, had been financially exploiting her for some 
time before the £45,000 payment. Soon after it was made, K left the area and hasnt 
been heard from since. Mrs H says she reported the matter to Barclays in 2018, but it 
has no record of this.
Mrs H also said that she didnt recognise a significant number of other transactions which 
have taken place since 2017, including some which have taken place while her complaint 
has been with our service. Shes also said that the account which received the £30,000 
has been subject to fraud but, as that account wasnt provided by Barclays, it does not 
form part of this complaint.
Mrs H, with the help of a representative, reported the alleged fraud to Barclays in 2021, 
but it said that it needed further information from her in order to decide whether to provide 
a refund. The matter was referred to our service. Mrs Hs representative told us that Mrs H 
hadnt carried out the £45,000 payment and it was likely done online. They said that the 
payment was unusual and out of character  so the bank should have asked questions 
about it before it was allowed to leave her account. They also disputed a number of other, 
more recent, transactions which had taken place on Mrs Hs account.
One of our investigators upheld Mrs Hs complaint in part. They were satisfied that Mrs H 
had carried out the recent withdrawals herself as CCTV evidence provided by the bank 
showed her carrying out some of the transactions. But they thought that Barclays should 
refund £15,000  on the basis that Barclays had little information about the £45,000 
transaction and should have questioned it further. The investigator also suggested that the 
transaction might not have been carried out by Mrs H at all.
Barclays disagreed, it questioned how reliable Mrs Hs testimony was  given that it had 
been able to demonstrate that she had carried out transactions which shed previously 
disputed and that she hadnt mentioned that £30,000 of the money in dispute had been 
paid back to an account in her own name.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs H, but I dont intend on asking Barclays 
to refund any of the transactions in dispute here. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered the question of authorisation. Under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account, Mrs H is presumed liable for 
transactions shes carried out herself. If a transaction can be shown to be unauthorised, 
then the bank must demonstrate that Mrs H failed with intent or gross negligence to keep 
her account details and payment instrument secure.
Mrs H and her representative have claimed that she did not carry out and had no 
knowledge of the £45,000 transaction in 2017. Its important to state that Ive taken into 
account the very distressing circumstances that Mrs H experienced  losing two sons. I 
understand that this would have had a significant impact on her life, and she might not 
reasonably be expected to monitor her accounts regularly in the wake of such 
experiences.
But, even taking those circumstances into account, Im not persuaded that this 
transaction could have gone unnoticed. It was of a very significant amount, paid away just 
days after it was received. This was not the case of a few low value transactions going 
undetected  it was a potentially life changing amount of money. And, as already noted, 
£30,000 was paid back to an account held by Mrs H. There remains little explanation as 
to why this happened, and this fact doesnt seem consistent with a transaction carried out 
without her knowledge and authority.
Its also of further concern that there is no record of Mrs H raising a dispute about the 
transaction until years after it happened. Barclays has been able to show that Mrs H did 
carry out some of the more recent transactions which she disputes. This indicates, 
unfortunately, that Mrs Hs recollection of events  even of those much more recent than 
the 2017 transaction may not be reliable.
In addition, though there is limited evidence available, the evidence that there is points 
to this transaction being carried out over the counter in a branch  a transaction which 
would have likely required Mrs H to be present.
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I think its very likely that Mrs H did carry out 
this transaction.
But thats not the end of the story, Barclays has an obligation to be on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions to (among other things), 
protect its customers from financial harm from fraud. 
Mrs Hs representative has submitted a number of pieces of evidence that point to the 
bad character of K. While I dont dispute any of this evidence, it does little to illuminate 
the circumstances surrounding this specific payment.
Its clear that this was an unusual payment for Mrs H and one that should have warranted 
further questioning  whether it was made online or (as I think is much more likely) in the branch. But, had that conversation happened, its not at all clear what reasons Mrs H 
would have given for making the payment nor whether there would necessarily be 
grounds for the bank staff to be concerned about it. It appears that only Mrs H and K knew 
why this payment was made (and why a significant sum was paid back to Mrs H) and I 
dont believe that Mrs H any longer remembers the circumstances surrounding it. K, on 
the other hand, may well recall the reasons for this payment but, in the absence of a 
formal police investigation into Ks actions, I am not in a position to speculate about why 
this payment was made.
That isnt to say that I rule out financial abuse, but I cannot assume that a conversation 
would have revealed abuse and either given Barclays enough reason to decline the 
payment altogether or enabled them to dissuade Mrs H from making it, when even the 
most basic facts surrounding the payment are unknown.
So, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, but I dont think Barclays has made a mistake by 
declining to refund the £45,000.
As for the other payments in dispute, Im satisfied with the banks evidence that it was Mrs 
H that carried out at least some of the withdrawals that she later disputed. And, given that 
K hasnt been seen since 2017, and there is no compelling evidence that anyone else has 
obtained Mrs Hs card and PIN, it would be very difficult for me to conclude that these 
transactions were not authorised by her.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mrs Hs representative, on behalf of Mrs H, 
didnt. He said that he was extremely disappointed with the outcome. He questioned why 
Barclays didnt have any records of the £45,000 transaction and suggested it might have 
deleted its records. He argued that Barclays had provided nothing in the way of customer 
care and did not have any regard to the possibility that Mrs H was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. He said that Mrs H was not mentally impaired in any way but was a vulnerable 
person who was exploited by a fraudster. He said that Ks actions, in transferring some of 
the money back to Mrs H, had made it difficult to prosecute K but that should not mean that 
Barclays should escape liability.
He asked whether, because my provisional decision was different to the view of the 
investigator, there was an option for a third person to review the complaint. He also said that 
Mrs H had only become aware there was a problem with her account when another bank 
notified her that money was disappearing from her account. 
Mrs Hs representative also provided some further evidence, which Ive outlined below. 
Of particular relevance is a number of documents obtained from the police under a data 
subject access request. They show that Mrs H made an allegation of fraud in May 2019 and 
that, at that time, she was distressed over the state of her financial affairs. The report does 
suggest, however, that an officer had been dealing with Mrs H for around twelve months 
prior to August 2019, which suggests the matter may have been first reported in August 
2018.
Mrs H reported that she had agreed to lend K £5,000 to set up a business. The police report 
does not explicitly say that it was Mrs H that made the £45,000 transaction, but it does say 
that she was expecting to receive £40,000 back from K rather than the £30,000 she did 
receive. She therefore appears to have alleged that K owed her £10,000. At another point in the report it is suggested that Mrs H believed that the £45,000 had gone directly to her own 
account and she didnt understand why it had gone to Ks account. 
In addition to the alleged missing £10,000, Mrs H also said that a £6,000 counter withdrawal 
and around 32 ATM withdrawals from her account at another bank had been made without 
her permission. The report concludes that it was Mrs H who had made the withdrawals in 
dispute and that there was no fraudulent activity on that account. 
The report contains a reference to someone visiting the branch with Mrs H. The name of the 
person is redacted, but its reasonable to assume that person is K. It also mentions that Mrs 
H claimed to have reported the matter to Barclays in one of its branches in 2018.
The report concludes that the dispute between Mrs H and K was civil in nature and about the 
amount of money that Mrs H had agreed to lend to K. It notes that the dispute has only 
arisen a significant amount of time after the events and after Mrs H and K ceased to 
associate with each other. 
Another page of the documents says Mrs H was receiving regular support due to concerns 
regarding her mental health, her ability to maintain and have responsibility for her finances 
and her regular allegations regarding dubious break-ins at her home. Concerns are also 
raised that Mrs H may have no idea how much she is spending and what direct debits she 
has set up.
It points out that Mrs H, even in 2019, was unable to explain why she had fallen out with K. It 
is noted that her account and recollections of incidents often change and offer no 
consistency to support her allegations. 
In addition Mrs Hs representative was able to provide a letter from Mrs Hs GP surgery 
which said that it did not have any previous recordings of dementia or similar diseases and 
no significant concerns had been raised about Mrs Hs memory or mental health. 
Also provided were a number of statements issued by another bank, which have been 
annotated and a number of different transactions that it is alleged Mrs H did not carry out 
have been highlighted. Mrs Hs representative suggested that some of the transactions were 
inconsistent with Mrs Hs lifestyle.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how disappointed Mrs H will be by my final decision, but Im not persuaded to 
reach a different finding to the one set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Its first important to state that Im only considering the transactions which took place from 
Mrs Hs Barclays account and that this is a final decision. 
In my provisional decision I concluded that Mrs H authorised the £45,000 transaction, but 
that her reasons for doing this were unclear, so unclear that I couldnt assume what might 
have happened had Barclays asked her questions about it (which, I accepted, they likely did 
not do at the time). 
The additional documents provided support the conclusion that Mrs H made (and was 
therefore aware of) the transaction  she does not appear to have denied making it to the 
police. They also indicate that the payment from Mrs H to K may have had something to do with Mrs H lending K money for her business. It still remains unclear why the money was first 
sent to K, with most of it later being paid to Mrs H. 
I note the comments made by Mrs Hs representative about her only becoming aware of the 
fraud when another bank alerted her to transactions on her account in 2018. But, this doesnt 
explain (and it still remains unclear why) Mrs H did not report the £45,000 transaction (which 
its evident she was aware of at the time) for at least a year (according to Mrs H) and, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, likely closer to two years. 
The police report concludes that the matter was a civil dispute. The police report does not 
appear to conclude that Mrs H was a victim of financial abuse at the time. 
Ive considered the letter from Mrs Hs GP surgery, but I have to weigh that against the first-
hand reports Ive mentioned. Whats striking is how some of the observations made of Mrs H 
in 2019 have been mirrored in more recent times. Most importantly, Mrs H cannot (and 
seemingly could not, even in 2019) provide a compelling and consistent account of events in 
relation to the £45,000 transaction. So, Im afraid that I can put little weight on Mrs Hs 
testimony then or now. 
So, I return to the question of what might have happened had the bank recognised the 
possibility that Mrs H was at risk of financial harm from fraud and asked her further questions 
about the £45,000 transaction (as I think it should have done). While I know this will be 
disappointing for Mrs H, my answer remains the same. While the police report sheds a little 
light on what might have happened, I do not have enough evidence (and neither does the 
police report support the finding) that the payment was made as a result of financial abuse 
and that Barclays, with sufficient questioning of Mrs H, would have been able to establish 
this and dissuade her from carrying it out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman