DRN-3642276
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Medway Credit Union misled her about the interest that would be 
applied to her loan and then after the loan term had ended, they withdrew funds from her 
savings without her consent to pay off the outstanding balance of the loan which she hadnt 
been made aware of. 
  
What happened
Mrs W took out a loan from Medway in August 2016 for £2000. She already owed Medway 
£719.34 so the consolidated loan was £2719.34. The loan agreement was for repayments of 
£92 per month for 35 months, with a final repayment of £92.39. The interest rate was 
23.14% APR. 
Medway didnt receive any repayments from Mrs W, and in March 2017 they chased her. 
They sent a further letter in May 2017. 
Mrs W replied that she didnt realise that Medway hadnt received any payments and asked 
what to do. Medway replied that she needed to pay £92 and provided her with a standing 
order form. 
Medway then sent Mrs W a renegotiated loan agreement for 42 instalment payments of 
£92 with a final payment of £90.14, at an interest rate of 23.14%
Mrs W started to make payments in May and made 42 successful monthly payments until 26 
November 2020 in line with the agreement. Mrs W thought that this had redeemed her whole 
loan. She heard nothing further from Medway. 
In August 2021, Medway took £1079.07 from Mrs Ws savings account which they said was 
to fully repay the balance on the loan. They said that they were recovering the interest that 
had accrued in the period that no payments were being made. 
Mrs W complained to Medway and they responded in November 2021. Mrs W was unhappy 
with their response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint. He thought that Medway hadnt 
acted fairly and asked them to refund the savings plus 8% interest. 
 
Medway didnt agree, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Was Mrs W made aware that the payments werent being made?
Mrs W is a long-term member of the credit union and has previously borrowed money from 
them. At the time that she took out the new loan, she was already repaying a loan at £37 per 
month regularly with no issues.   
Its not clear why after receiving the additional £2000 loan Mrs Ws payments stopped but it 
appears to have been an error. 
Whilst I accept that it was Mrs Ws responsibility to make the payments, I would have 
expected Medway to notify her as soon as a payment was missed, and then in every 
subsequent month that no payment was received. They didnt make any contact with Mrs W 
for 7 months after the loan agreement was signed, and then shortly after that they 
threatened her with county court action. 
As soon as that contact was made, Mrs W advised that she didnt realise the payments 
werent being made and she set up a payment immediately. I have no reason to believe that 
Mrs W was aware.   
Mrs W was then sent the renegotiated loan agreement  starting May 2017, which 
extended the repayment period of the loan by 7 payments and increased the total amount 
she was to repay by over £600. I think it was entirely reasonable in those circumstances for 
Mrs W to have assumed that any additional interest was therefore included in the new 
agreement and that upon completion of the 42 payments, she would have discharged her 
loan. The sum now being repaid was £3954.14. There is nothing in that agreement which 
suggests that additional interest is due beyond what has been agreed, and Medway should 
have included the whole debt in that agreement.   
Its not clear why Mrs W didnt make the final smaller payment of £90.14, but again Medway 
didnt make any attempt to make contact with Mrs W about this missing last payment 
between November 2020 and August 2021, and then simply took this sum, plus the 
additional amount they claim is owed from Mrs Ws savings account.
 
Using Mrs Ws savings to pay the balance of the loan
In the loan agreement it says that: 
while my loan balance exceeds the value of my shares (savings) in my account, I 
understand that my savings may not be withdrawn, and may be used to repay all or part of 
the loan if I miss any payments
 
It also says: Medway Credit Union reserves the right to transfer money from my shares to 
my loan account for any missed repayments and may be used to repay all or part of the loan 
if I miss payments.
And so, under the terms of the loan agreement, Medway do have the right to withdraw 
missed repayments from Mrs Ws savings. 
However, as far as I can see, there is only one missed contractual repayment  which is the 
last payment of £90.14, and so whilst I agree that they would have been entitled to take this, 
I can see no evidence of a contractual basis for taking the other £988.93, as it is not a 
missed payment. 
Medway say that Mrs W was advised verbally when she started to resume payments that 
interest had accrued on her account. However, I havent seen any evidence of this, and I 
would have expected any interest that had accrued to be included in the amount of the 
renegotiated loan agreement.  Medway have further said that it was Mrs Ws responsibility to ensure that payments were 
made, and that chasing her for the payments was difficult as the period in question was 
during lockdown and they were unable to contact or chase any overdue payments. 
However, I cant see that any contact was made with Mrs W between November 2020 and 
the August 2021 when the withdrawal was taken from her savings. I appreciate that for some 
of that time we were in lockdown, and I also understand that Credit Unions are staffed part 
time. However, I dont accept that this is sufficient reason for no attempt at contact regarding 
any arrears to be made for 9 months, and then for the withdrawal to be simply made without 
warning. 
And so, in light of the above, I dont think that Medway have acted fairly or in line with the 
terms of the agreement in taking the funds from Mrs Ws savings account, and I will be 
directing that they refund them.
I note that following the investigator issuing his view on this case, Medway have disputed 
that they should pay 8% interest on the repayment of the funds as they say that Mrs C 
wouldnt have been paid any interest on her savings in the Credit Union account. 
While I accept that this is the case, Mrs W could have withdrawn those funds at any point 
from August 2021 and invested them elsewhere. So, I agree with the investigator that Mrs W 
he has lost the use of those funds and so the 8% interest should be paid. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above I agree with the investigator, and I think that to put 
things right Medway should: 
Refund £988.93 to Mrs Ws savings account, which is the £1079.07 Medway took 
from Mrs Ws savings minus the final payment of £90.14.  
Pay 8% simple interest per year to the £988.93 refund from the date it was taken (21 
August 2021) to the date of settlement  to reflect the fact that Mrs W has been 
unfairly deprived of that money.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint about Medway Credit Union and direct that they put things 
right as above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman