DRN-3730380
The complaint
Miss M complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) 
rejecting elements of a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment to her dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In April 2022 Miss Ms dog swallowed a battery from a remote control it chewed, so she took 
the dog to an emergency vet, who operated on the dog to remove it. Miss M made a claim 
for the cost of the operation, which in the vets opinion was a life-threatening condition.
CG accepted the dogs condition was covered under the policy. However,, CG said they 
wouldnt cover some elements of the claim, as they were the subject of exclusions under the 
policy. The elements totalled £890.11 for what CG considered to be consumables and costs 
exceeding reasonable allowances. Also, an element for fluid therapy was excluded as CG 
deemed it to be routine/elective treatment and Miss Ms dog was under eight years of age.
Unhappy at the deduction of the elements of her claim, Miss M complained to CG. But they 
didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response CG referred to the policy terms that 
excluded routine treatment or treatment not relating to al illness or injury; hospitalisation  
costs more than £100 per day; costs for buster collars; costs of completing the claim form; 
and miscellaneous costs not directly related to the treatment of illness or injury. CG also 
referred to terms excluding routine treatment, which they thought included the fluid therapy 
(unless there were extenuating circumstances). CG also said their fee limits for general 
anaesthetic and hospitalisation were reasonable  so deduction of costs above these figures 
was reasonable.
Unhappy at CGs response, Miss M complained to this service. The main part of her 
complaint was that CG had unfairly declined elements of her claim as they were part of the 
surgery, which the vet considered lifesaving. She wanted CG to reimburse her for the 
deductions theyd made to her claim, plus interest shed incurred on her credit card (to pay 
the vets bill).
Our investigator partly upheld Miss Ms complaint. She thought CG had unfairly applied the 
exclusion to the fluid therapy, which she thought CG should cover (within the limits in the 
policy) as it appeared a necessary part of the treatment. But in respect of the other elements 
of the claim CG declined, she concluded the general exclusions section of the policy set out 
that vet fees would only be paid where reasonable and that hospitalisation costs exceeding 
£100 a day wouldnt be covered; nor would completing the claim form, or costs that didnt 
directly relate to the treatment of the illness. To put things right, our investigator thought CG 
should reimburse the fluid therapy costs (with interest from the date Miss M paid the vets bill 
to the date of reimbursement).
Miss M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. While understanding the general administration and buster collar costs 
wouldnt be covered, she was unhappy at CGs deductions for: general anaesthetic costs 
over £250 (deduction of £151.50); hospitalisation over £100 (deduction of £178); and out-of-
hours treatment over £100 (deduction of £150.50). She said these contributed to her dogs 
treatment. She was also unhappy at how long her complaint took to be resolved, meaning 
she had been charged interest on her credit card).
CG also disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They said the policy wording stated fluid therapy was covered with life-
threatening conditions  not emergency treatment. They also referred to policy terms 
excluding routine treatment from cover (they considered fluid therapy to be routine 
treatment). They would only consider fluid therapy if there were extenuating circumstances, 
such as where fluids were necessary to save a pets life and they wouldnt survive without 
the treatment. CG considered a pet over eight years of age would be more likely to suffer ill 
effects from sedation and surgery, so they would cover the cost in those circumstances..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Miss M. 
The main issue in Miss Ms complaint is whether CG acted fairly in applying deductions from 
her claim for nine separate items totalling £800.11 - plus the policy excess of £90.00. Miss M 
accepts some of the deductions arent covered (the buster collar at £28.16; administration 
fees of £25.50; and claim form preparation of £16.55). Having looked at the deductions (and 
Miss Ms main areas of complaint) Ive concluded CG acted fairly in line with the policy terms 
and conditions in applying deductions for: blood sample cost more than £12 (deduction of 
£20); and consumables (deduction of £59). I also think its reasonable for CG to deduct the 
policy excess, which would apply automatically to any claim.
This leaves four main items specifically raised by Miss M: general anaesthetic costs 
(deduction of £151.50); hospitalisation (deduction of £178); and out-of-hours treatment 
(deduction of £150.50). The final item is the fluid therapy deduction (£170.90). 
Ive first considered the deductions for: hospitalisation costs; general anaesthetic costs; and 
out-of-hours treatment. All of which are for the costs claimed more than limits CG say are 
reasonable (and/or set out in the policy documents). 
Regarding hospitalisation costs, in their final response, CG refer to the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) that sets out the important features of the policy. Under a 
heading of Veterinary Fees the following appears:
What is not insured?
Any claim where.hospitalisation costs exceed £100 per day
I think this makes it clear CG wont pay for hospitalisation costs that exceed £100 per day. 
The invoice from the vet includes a hospitalisation cost of £278 for the date of surgery. As 
such, Ive concluded CG acted fairly in line with the policy terms by deducting £178 from the 
claim (£278 - £100). 
Regarding the general anaesthetic costs, CG refer in their final response to a limit of £250, 
which they say is based on research indicating this is a reasonable sum for general 
anaesthetic. CG also say the calculation of what is considered reasonable is a matter for an 
insurers judgement. The policy terms and conditions reflect the application of what CG consider to be a reasonable cost (limit) on specific treatments. Under Section 11  General 
Exclusions the following is included:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are:-
Reasonable; and 
Essential for Your pets health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a 
maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing 
fees
Each and every claim will be reviewed by Our claims assessors and costs will be 
compared against charges for the same or similar Treatment to make sure that 
the Treatment and veterinary fees are reasonable, necessary, essential, and not 
excessive compared to the rest of the UK market.
In accepting Miss Ms claim (but with the deductions referred to above) CG set out the limits 
of what they consider to be reasonable for general anaesthetic (£250) and out-of-hours 
treatment (£100). These limits are then used to calculate the respective deductions (£151.50 
and £150.50 respectively). Given the policy terms and conditions allow for CG to set limits 
on what they consider to be reasonable, then I cant conclude theyve acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying those limits when calculating the deductions for general 
anaesthetic and for out-of-hours treatment.
On the issue of the deduction for fluid therapy, CG say they consider this to be routine 
treatment and as such, excluded from the policy. They refer to the policy terms that state the 
following are excluded from cover:
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventative and not treating an illness or Accidental Injury.
The same wording is also included in the IPID. CG also say fluid therapy is a routine 
treatment that is included as part of other veterinary treatment. They also say routine 
treatments are excluded unless there are extenuating circumstances, such as if fluids are 
necessary to save the pets life or they would not survive without the additional treatment.
Ive considered what CG have said, but I dont agree. The fluid therapy was administered as 
part of the surgery to remove the battery. I dont think such surgery can reasonably be 
considered routine given the nature of the condition meant surgery was necessary to 
remove the battery.  
Ive also considered the description of the fluid therapy set out on the vets invoice. This 
states:
Time and materials used in setting up and maintaining a drip in pets that require it. 
Includes dressings, syringes and needles and the use of electronic monitoring 
equipment.
I think the key wording here is pets that require it. This indicates it was a necessary part of 
the surgery to remove the battery. As the vet exercised professional judgement about what 
was needed to perform the surgery effectively to remove the battery safely and ensure the 
dog recovered, I find this persuasive that the fluid therapy was a necessary part of the 
surgery. The clinical notes from the vet also refer to Fluids IV administered during and after 
the operation Which is consistent with the fluid therapy being a necessary part of the 
surgery.Ive therefore concluded CG havent acted fairly and reasonably in saying it was a routine 
treatment and therefore not covered.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they fairly rejected the claim for fluid therapy, then they should reimburse the cost 
of fluid therapy treatment (subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any policy limits as appropriate). As Miss M has paid the vets bill, then I also think 
interest should be added to the amount reimbursed at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
reimbursed, from the date Miss M paid the vets bill to the date they reimburse Miss M. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. I 
require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reimburse the cost of fluid therapy treatment (subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, including any policy limits as appropriate).
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should also pay interest at a rate of 
8% simple on the amount reimbursed, from the date Miss M paid the vets bill to the date 
they reimburse Miss M. 
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman