DRN-3212155
The complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account without notice and havent 
refunded her for transactions that she either didnt authorise or didnt received the goods for. 
What happened
Ms G had an account with HSBC.
On attempting to use her debit card in April 2020 Ms G discovered the card was blocked. 
HSBC explained to Ms G that her account was restricted and under review.
On 26 May 2020 HSBC notified Ms G that her account had been closed without notice. And 
on 1 June 2020, Ms G received the funds from her account. 
Ms Gs also raised a number of transactions which she either didnt carry out or didnt 
receive the goods for. These include a number of transactions between February and 
April 2020 to a mobile phone company Ill call L, for which Ms G says she didnt get the 
service she paid for  namely increased credit on her account. 
Ms G has also raised a payment made to another mobile phone company, Ill call O, where 
Ms G says she bought a SIM card and was advised this could be returned within 14 days  
which she did  but didnt get a refund. 
Ms Gs also disputed some payments to a ridesharing app Ill call U. These totalled £37.87 
and were temporarily refunded to Ms G on 1 May 2020 before later being re-debited. 
Ms G also complained that the bank had been charging her for being in an unarranged 
overdraft  and she hadnt agreed to any fees therefore this wasnt fair.  
Ms G complained to HSBC. The bank didnt uphold her complaint. The bank thought theyd 
followed their terms and conditions when closing Ms Gs account, acted fairly in charging her 
for using the overdraft and not refunding the transactions. 
Ms G wasnt happy with HSBCs response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Gs complaint. They asked HSBC for more 
information regarding why they closed Ms Gs account immediately, and why they hadnt 
refunded the transactions Ms G disputed. 
HSBC explained that theyd already refunded the transaction to O. And for both of the 
disputes with L and U theyd written to Ms G but she didnt respond, therefore they didnt 
refund the disputed transactions. 
The bank added that they closed Ms Gs account due to abusive and threatening behaviour.
On reviewing Ms Gs complaint our investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything 
further. They concluded HSBC followed the terms and conditions of Ms Gs account when 
closing it without notice, imposing the overdraft charges and not refunding the disputed 
transactions. 
Ms G didnt accept our investigators opinion  in response she said that it was unfair for 
HSBC to close her account considering shed been with the bank for nine years. And they 
should have given her notice before doing so. 
As Ms G didnt accept our investigators opinion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Ms G that Ive reviewed everything shes submitted, however Ive only 
addressed what I think are her key complaint points  and what I regard as most relevant to 
her complaint. 
Account closure:
For a bank to close an account they must do so in a way which follows the terms and 
conditions of the account. HSBC notified Ms G that her account would be closed without 
notice on 26 May 2020.
Section 19 of the terms and conditions of Ms Gs account state that her account could be 
closed immediately for a number of reasons. HSBC have explained that Ms G acted 
abusively over the phone and via live chat to their staff. 
Ive read the call notes provided by HSBC, and listened to a call provided by HSBC which 
took place on the 25 April 2020. Having listened to the call I can understand why HSBC 
regarded Ms Gs behaviour as abusive and threatening  during the call Ms G raises her 
voice, makes a number of comments including asking if the call handler understands English 
and whether theyd like to go to hospital.  
I realise this will likely be disappointing to Ms G and the closure of her account caused her 
inconvenience. However, a bank is able to decide who theyd like to offer banking services 
to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can decide they no longer 
want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the commercial freedom to 
decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in this case HSBC exercised its 
commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close Ms Gs account. 
Disputed transactions:
Ms Gs disputed £37.87 worth of transactions to U. HSBC temporarily refunded the 
transactions to U and wrote to her on 1 May 2020, giving Ms G until 14 May 2020 to contact 
the bank regarding the transactions. HSBC argue that Ms G didnt contact them between 
1 May 2020 and 14 May 2020 to dispute the transactions. And as a result the transactions 
were re-debited. Our investigator asked Ms G if she contacted the bank between 1 May 
2020 and 14 May 2020 to discuss the transactions but she didnt respond. As Ms G didnt 
contact HSBC before 14 May 2020 I cant say they acted unfairly in re-debiting the 
transactions. 
Goods/Services not received:Ms Gs asked HSBC to refund her for the transaction to O. Ive seen evidence from Ms Gs 
statements that this transaction was refunded  so I wont be considering this any further. 
However, Ms Gs also complained that she didnt receive the service she bought from L. Ive 
seen evidence from HSBC that the bank wrote to Ms G on 8 May 2020 asking Ms G to 
contact them within seven days. The banks argued that Ms G didnt contact them in this 
timeframe, and Ive not seen any evidence from Ms G that this isnt the case. For this reason 
I cant say HSBC acted unfairly in failing to raise a chargeback claim with L. 
Unarranged overdraft charges:
Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly in imposing overdraft charges on her account. 
Ms Gs argued that she didnt agree to any charges, and therefore HSBC have no right to 
impose them. Ms Gs requested around £80 back from the bank. 
In HSBCs final response the bank has explained that they charge £5 a day, with a maximum 
monthly charge of £80 if a customer enters an unarranged overdraft. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions for Ms Gs account, active from March 2020  and these state HSBC are 
entitled to charge a maximum fee of £20 per month. I can see that between May 2019 and 
May 2020 HSBC charged Ms G on four separate occasions, £20, £40, and £10 twice. I 
havent seen the terms and conditions prior to March 2020, however I can see that HSBC 
have refunded Ms G for both of the £20 and £40 charges, therefore I only need to consider 
the two £10 charges. 
Ive considered Ms Gs argument that she didnt agree to the overdraft. I understand this will 
disappoint Ms G, but if a customer tries to process transactions which take them over their 
limit a banks entitled to decide whether to honour these, and therefore put in place an 
unarranged overdraft. In doing so they are entitled to charge proportionate fees. 
The competition regulator  the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA)  directed banks 
in 2017 and 2018 to follow certain rules when imposing unarranged overdrafts. These rules 
included notifying customers on a daily basis if they were in their unarranged overdraft and 
imposing a maximum monthly charge for overdrafts. 
Ive already highlighted that HSBC have a maximum monthly charge of £20, which neither of 
the two £10 charges exceeded. Im also aware that Ms G received text messages from 
HSBC notifying her that she was in an unarranged overdraft. Im therefore satisfied that the 
banks followed whats expected of them when charging Ms G on entering an unarranged 
overdraft.  
In summary for the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking HSBC to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman