DRN-4084977
The complaint
Ms G, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Ms G was advanced five home collected loans and Ive included some of the information 
weve received about them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £200.00 26/11/2016 23/05/2017 33 £10.00
2 £300.00 23/05/2017 14/11/2017 33 £15.00
3 £600.00 14/11/2017 03/07/2018 33 £30.00
4 £600.00 03/07/2018 outstanding 33 £30.00
5 £1,000.00 24/07/2018 outstanding 52 £35.00
Ms G has had some problems repaying her final two loans, and Morses told us as of 
December 2022 she still owed £1,540. 
Following Ms Gs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold it. Ms Gs representative didnt accept the outcome and instead referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an adjudicator reviewed the 
complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision to provide loans 1  3 so he 
didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint about them. 
He also concluded the lending was now harmful for Ms G by the time loans 4 and 5 were 
granted and so he upheld Ms Gs complaint about these loans. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator reached and provided reasons that Ive 
read and fully considered. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a 
decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms G could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Gs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms G. These factors include:
Ms G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms G. The adjudicator thought this 
applied in Ms Gs complaint from loan 4. 
Morses was required to establish whether Ms G could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms G was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Gs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms G (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute 
and I say no more about them.
Loans 4 and 5 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms G for details of her income and 
expenditure. For loan 4 Ms G declared a weekly income of £358. For loan 5 she declared 
she received £440 per week. Morses also says this information was checked with a credit 
reference agency  but the results of that check havent been provided. 
In terms of expenditure, for loan 4  Morses has recorded these to be £203 per week and 
then £215 for loan 5. This left weekly disposable income as low as £155 when loan 4 was 
advanced. Based solely on Ms Gs income and expenditure information Morses couldve 
been reasonably confident she would be able to afford the repayments she was committed 
to making for loans 4 and 5. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms G had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew about Ms Gs finances. Considering these loans were taken only weeks apart, Ms G for loan 
5 declared larger weekly expenditure, on rent, council tax, and her credit card costs. I do 
think, given all this that Morses ought to have been concerned about the information Ms G 
had provided about her living costs. 
By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have 
verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out 
further checks in this case. However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, 
whether a proportionate check wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were 
unaffordable for Ms G because Morses also needed to consider whether the loan 
repayments were sustainable for Ms G. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Ms G, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Gs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms G was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms G had taken out four loans in 20 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms G was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term shortfall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Ms G was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous 
loan was repaid - and loan 5 was the first-time loans overlapped. To me, this is a sign 
that Ms G was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in her income rather than as a 
short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Gs weekly commitments generally 
increased, when loan 4 was granted, her commitment was more than three times the 
amount due for loan 1. There was no time when her weekly commitment decreased. 
However, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive manner, ought to have 
led it to realise these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Ms G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out 20 months after Ms Gs first loan and was to be repaid over the longest 
term. This loan was also for five times the value of her first loan  and with loan 4 still 
running this led to a weekly repayment of £65  which was more than six times the 
size of Ms Gs commitment at loan 1. Ms G had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms G lost out when Morses provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Gs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms G borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Ms Gs complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Ive outlined below what 
Morses needs to do in order to put things right.  Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it had stopping lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms G with loans 4 and 5. 
If Morses have sold the outstanding debt Morses should buy it back if Morses is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debt back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms G towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms G which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms G originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms G as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms G 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then any refund amount can be used to repay 
any balance remaining on any outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Ms G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms G. 
E. The overall pattern of Ms Gs borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Gs credit file. Morses do not have to remove these loans from Ms Gs credit file 
until they have been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Gs complaint in part.
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms G as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman