DRN-4455153
The complaint
Miss K complains that Wise Payments Limited unfairly blocked and closed her accounts.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. As such, Ill provide 
only an overview of the most essential facts here. In summary:
Miss K had a personal and business account with Wise which she opened in 2020.
 
In October 2022, Miss K sold a rental property that she owned overseas and 
deposited a large amount of money into her Wise account. Following this, Wise 
blocked Miss Ks account and asked her to provide proof of where the funds had 
come from. Miss K provided paperwork relating to the sale of the property and 
screens shots of another account she held showing the funds were converted from 
USD into GBP and then deposited into her Wise account. Wise reviewed the 
information and unblocked Miss Ks accounts. Miss K continued to use her accounts.
On 27 July 2023, Miss K attempted to make a transfer from her Wise account to pay 
her mortgage. She discovered that her account had been deactivated. Miss K 
contacted Wise and was told that she could appeal its decision to deactivate her 
account.
Miss K appealed Wises decision to suspend her account. On 9 August 2023, Wise 
transferred the balance of Miss Ks business account to an account she held with 
another bank. Wise told Miss K that it was conducting due diligence checks on the 
funds in her personal account (just under £102,000) and were unable to release 
these funds to her. Wise said that this process could take up to 60 days to complete.
Miss K complained to Wise and explained that she needed access to her funds to 
pay for medication, to make her mortgage repayments and pay bills. In response 
Wise said it hadnt done anything wrong and were complying with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
In September 2023, Miss Ks account was restricted by Wise following a freezing 
order being issued by the court. The court order froze Miss Ks account for six 
months following an application made by the National Investigation Service (NIS).
Miss K continued to contact Wise about how she could access the funds that were 
subject to the freezing order. She explained that she had no money to pay for 
medication that she needed, her bills werent being paid and she was worried that 
her home would be repossessed because she couldnt make her mortgage 
repayments. Wise apologised for the trouble and upset Miss K was suffering but said 
it hadnt done anything wrong and were complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations by following the court order. So, it couldnt allow Miss K access to the 
money in her account.
Unhappy with this response Miss K brought her complaint to our service. She said 
that Wise were acting illegally, and she had done nothing wrong. She said her mental 
health had been seriously impacted by Wises actions, and she was contemplating 
suicide. She explained she had no money to pay for medication, her mortgage and 
essential living expenses. And that she had recently had her home adapted due to 
mobility issues and was now on the brink of losing her home. She provided a medical 
report to support what she said about her mental health.
In October 2023, Miss K contacted the court and police regarding the court order. 
She obtained a copy of the court order and contacted NIS. She provided paperwork 
to NIS and information relating to a bounce back loan shed repaid, which she 
believed was the grounds for obtaining the freezing order. Following this NIS, 
explained that it was investigating whether Miss K was entitled to the money in her 
account, and that this could take up to six months. NIS invited Miss K to be 
interviewed. 
An investigator reviewed Miss Ks complaint. She said that Wise hadnt done anything wrong 
when it closed Miss Ks accounts and didnt release the money held in her personal account. 
She explained that Wise were complying with the court order and its legal obligations. 
Wise agreed with the investigators recommendations. 
Miss K didnt. In summary she said: 
she hasnt done anything wrong, and Wise didnt let her know it had closed her 
accounts
Wise has acted illegally and stolen her money by refusing to allow her access to the 
funds still held in her personal account
the money in the account are the proceeds from the sale of her property overseas, 
and that she has provided Wise with information that proves the funds are legitimate 
on more than one occasion
the investigator should have contacted the police and court as part of their 
investigation 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss K was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that she 
has provided a detailed response to what we said about her complaint. Id like to reassure 
Miss K that Ive considered the whole file and whats shes said. But Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended by me in 
taking this approach. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Miss K and 
Wise have said before reaching my decision.
Firstly, I should make it clear to Miss K that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal 
dispute resolution service acting as an alternative to the courts. We dont consider complaints in the same way as a criminal court might. It is not my role to prove exactly what 
happened. Where there is a dispute about what happened  as there is here, and the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, we reach our conclusions on the 
basis of what we consider is most likely to have happened having considered the available 
evidence and wider circumstances.
I want to address Miss Ks comments about Wise committing theft. Miss K has said that 
Wise has stolen her money in denying her access to the money in her account  in other 
words broken the law. As Ive already set out above our service is an informal alternative to 
the courts. And I cant make a finding as to whether the law has been broken, and I dont 
need to in order to decide this complaint. 
I do not doubt how strongly Miss K feels about this matter. That is clear from the detailed 
submissions and information she has submitted. She thinks Wise has acted illegally and lied 
to the court. She says that as part of looking into her complaint the investigator should have 
contacted the police and court about the freezing order. To be frank, it is not for this service 
to decide how the court came to its conclusions in issuing the freezing order. So, I dont 
consider the investigator was wrong when she explained to Miss K that we havent contacted 
the police or court when considering her complaint.
Likewise, Miss K wants our service to make a finding as to whether Wise has discriminated 
against her on the basis that Miss K doesnt have a traditionally British sounding surname. 
While I can appreciate this is her perspective, it is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to decide whether the business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
Courts. Im required to consider a number of factors in order to decide Miss Ks complaint in 
accordance with what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Part of this has meant considering the provisions of the Equality Act 2010. 
Having done so, while I appreciate Miss K says she felt she was treated differently by Wise 
because of her surname, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Wise blocked Miss Ks 
account for an improper reason. From looking at all the evidence and circumstances of this 
complaint Im satisfied that Wise were complying with a court order when it blocked Miss Ks 
account as opposed to her being treated unfairly due to her surname.
Account closure and access to funds
Wise has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to 
customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Theyre also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Wise suspended Miss Ks account on 27 July 2023 and have relied on the terms of the 
account to do so.  Ive reviewed the terms and conditions  of Miss Ks account. The terms of 
permit Wise to suspend and close an account. Under section 25.2  they state:
We may at any time suspend or close your Wise Account and/or end this Agreement without 
notice if:
(a) You breach any provision of this Agreement or documents referred to in this 
Agreement;
(b) We are requested or directed to do so by a competent court of law, government 
authority, public agency, or law enforcement agency;
(c) We have reason to believe you are in breach of any applicable law or regulation; or(d) We have reason to believe you are involved in fraudulent activity, money laundering, 
terrorism financing or other criminal or illegal activity
Having looked at the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied Wise acted in line with the 
terms when they suspended Miss Ks account.  Miss K says that Wise didnt let her know 
that it had closed her account. I disagree. I say this because Ive seen a copy of an email 
that Wise sent Miss K on 27 July 2023, which clearly told her it had suspended her account 
and were completing a due diligence review. I can see that Miss K appealed Wises 
decision, so I think its fair to say Miss K was aware her account had been suspended.
In addition to their regulatory obligations Wise must also comply with any order of a court. 
Whilst Wise were completing its review of Miss Ks account, it received a court order, which 
said the funds in Miss Ks account were subject to a law enforcement investigation and 
should be frozen for six months  in other words Miss K wasnt allowed to access the money 
in her account. Once an order was granted in respect of Miss Ks account, Wise had a duty 
to act on it and owed a duty to the court to ensure the freezing order wasnt breached. So, I 
cant say Wise treated Miss K unfairly when it continued to not allow Miss K access to the 
money in her account. I should also explain that this service has no power to review or vary 
an order made by the courts. 
When requesting a final decision by an ombudsman, Miss K has said that she would like all 
the information Wise has provided to us and that she still believes Wise has lied to the court 
 in effect that the court order has been granted on the basis of fictitious information 
provided by Wise. Prior to issuing this decision I can see that the investigator has provided 
everything that we can to Miss K. 
The accusation that Wise has lied to the court is a serious one. I want to assure  Miss K that 
Ive not seen any evidence of this. If Miss Ks view remains unchanged the most obvious 
place for her to challenge the freezing order and Wises interpretation of it would be the 
courts. I also want to point out, that from looking at the evidence, it is my understanding that 
the court order has been made following an application by NIS, a law enforcement agency, 
not by Wise as Miss K suspects. Wise were simply complying with the order.   
In summary I am satisfied that Wise has not acted inappropriately or incorrectly. I realise 
Miss K would understandably like access to the funds in her account and feels very 
differently. But based on all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I dont believe 
I can fairly direct Wise to release Miss Ks funds. Miss K may wish to pursue the matter 
through other means, but my decision brings to an end what we  as an informal dispute 
resolution service can do for Miss K.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman