DRN-3504542
The complaint
Miss K complains that Santander UK Plc continued to report her mortgage account to the 
credit reference agencies after she was no longer liable for the debt following her 
bankruptcy.
What happened
Miss K took out a joint mortgage with Santander in 2006. She was declared bankrupt in 
January 2017 and discharged in January 2018.
Miss K says shes no longer liable for the mortgage debt. And so Santander shouldnt 
continue to report it to the credit reference agencies. Miss K says shes not in contact with 
the joint account holder and says he was abusive.
In its final response letter, Santander said as the mortgage is a secured debt it wasnt 
included in the bankruptcy and Miss K remains jointly and severally liable for it. And so it 
said it would continue to report this to her credit file.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties saying the information Santander had recorded on 
Miss Ks credit file didnt fairly reflect the true situation. I said Santander should update 
Miss Ks credit file to show the account defaulted at the date of her bankruptcy and the debt 
as partially satisfied on the date of her discharge with no entries after this. I said it should 
pay £250 for the upset and inconvenience this had caused Miss K.
Santander agreed that it cant pursue Miss K for the shortfall and to pay £250 compensation.
Santander didnt agree to update Miss Ks credit file. It said it recorded information in line 
with industry standards and the principles set out by the steering committee on reciprocity 
(SCOR). It said its own systems, and those of some credit reference agencies, were only 
able to record information about the account, not individual account holders. This meant it 
couldnt record a default for Miss K and not for the other account holder. It said it can only 
record a default when a property has been taken into possession. Santander said it could 
arrange for the date of settlement or default to be backdated if the mortgage was repaid or if 
Miss K was removed from the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When someone goes bankrupt, their debts are included in the bankruptcy estate, which 
means theyre no longer liable for them. Any unsecured debt in Miss Ks sole name would 
most likely have been written off by the lender as it would have no realistic means to recover 
it. Such lenders would have reported this to the credit reference agencies as a default or 
partial settlement at the time of the bankruptcy.
However, the circumstances here are not straightforward.
First, this was a joint and several debt. Although Miss K is no longer liable for the mortgage 
debt the joint account holder remains liable. Hes maintained monthly payments.
Second, the debt was secured. This means that while Miss K isnt liable for mortgage 
payments, Santander retains the right to take possession of the property to recover the debt.
Third, the mortgage debt increased after Miss Ks bankruptcy, due to unpaid ground rent of 
about £7,600. Santander paid this to the freeholder to protect its security. It added the cost 
to the mortgage account.
Lenders have a duty to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. The purpose is to assist third parties  such as other lenders  gain an 
understanding of an individuals existing obligations before offering them credit.
To help decide whether the information reported by Santander to Miss Ks credit file is right 
and fair, we asked Miss K for more information about her circumstances and the property. 
We also asked Santander for information (such as who makes the mortgage payments) but 
it didnt respond. It confirmed the account is up to date.
Miss K says the joint account holder makes the mortgage payments. She says if he stopped 
doing so she wouldnt make payments. Miss K says shed allow Santander to take 
possession and sell the property. Miss K says a relative of her ex-partner lives in the 
property and she doesnt receive any rent from the property. Taking what Miss K has told us 
into account, I think its unlikely she intends to make any payments towards the mortgage 
and Santander cant require her to do so. It seems to me that this isnt an ongoing financial 
commitment that potential lenders need to know about when assessing affordability and 
making a decision whether to lend.
It's unclear why the trustee in bankruptcy didnt sell the property, or seek a court order to do 
so. Perhaps there was insufficient equity in the property at the time. The trustee collected 
Miss Ks share of the rent. Miss K says a relative of her ex-partner moved into the property 
shortly after she was made bankrupt.
Santander paid ground rent to the freeholder to protect its security. It added the cost to the 
mortgage account. As this happened after Miss Ks bankruptcy, it seems Santander believes 
Miss K is responsible for that part of the mortgage debt. Miss K says the debt existed before 
her bankruptcy and was merely transferred from the freeholder to Santander. Whether 
Miss K is liable for that part of the debt would be for a court to decide. I dont think its fair to 
record that Miss K owes the mortgage debt because the payment to the freeholder was 
added to the mortgage account after her bankruptcy.
I dont think Miss Ks credit report fairly reflects her circumstances. Miss K had a debt to 
Santander and, in effect, defaulted on her obligations when she entered bankruptcy. But her 
credit report doesnt reflect this. And Miss Ks credit report suggests she has an ongoing 
obligation to make payments, which isnt right either.
Santander does have to treat the joint account holder fairly. Most likely, Santander didnt 
default the account because the joint account holder maintained monthly payments 
(although as it points out theres the unpaid ground rent and the letting of the property in 
breach of the mortgage terms and conditions).Santander says for joint accounts it reports the same information for both account holders. 
Santander is recording information about the account  whether the account is up to date, in 
arrears or defaulted. It says its systems (and those of at least one credit reference agency) 
cant record different information for joint account holders.
The mortgage debt is still owed and Santander has the right to collect it from the joint 
account holder or from the proceeds of sale of the property. But it isnt correct for Miss Ks 
credit report to say that she is liable for the mortgage debt. She isnt.
Miss K is no longer required to make monthly mortgage payments, or to repay any shortfall if 
the property is sold. Shes said if her ex-partner didnt make payments she wouldnt make 
payments but would allow the property to be taken into possession and sold. Given that 
Miss K doesnt live in or benefit from rental income from the property, its likely to be in her 
interests for the property to be sold. She would receive her share of any equity in the 
property and no longer be joint owner and account holder with her ex-partner. While Miss K 
could choose to make mortgage payments to avoid the property being taken into 
possession, I think its unlikely she would do so.
In my provisional decision, I said it would be fair for Miss Ks credit file to show she defaulted 
on the debt when she entered bankruptcy on 31 January 2017 and that her obligations were 
partially settled when she was discharged from bankruptcy a year later. I said there should 
be no entries after this and Santander should arrange for Miss Ks credit file to be updated 
accordingly.
Santander didnt agree to this. First, it said its systems didnt allow it to report different 
information for joint account holders. Second, it said it reported information in accordance 
with industry standards and the SCOR principles of reciprocity. 
SCORs governing principle is that data is shared only for the prevention of over-
commitment, bad debt, fraud and money laundering, and to support debt recovery and 
debtor tracing with the aim of promoting responsible lending. It says defaults should be 
reported in line with the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults 
at Credit Reference Agencies drawn up the credit industry and ICO. The relevant parts of 
these principles say:
data reported to a customers credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and 
up to date. 
circumstances which may lead to a recording of a default include where the account is or 
has been included in a bankruptcy. The default date must be consistent with that of the 
bankruptcy. The account should be closed and marked as partially settled if its included 
in a bankruptcy which is discharged and the full amount isnt repaid.
where there is joint liability, the account should not automatically be marked in default if it 
is maintained by the other party.
The situation here isnt straightforward, and Im sympathetic to the difficulties Santander has 
described. I appreciate that it reports information on an account basis, but here the 
obligations of the joint account holders are not the same. Miss Ks obligations regarding the 
debt owed to Santander have ended, but the joint account holders obligations have not. 
It wouldnt be fair to record a default or part settlement in such way that it is reported against 
the joint account holder. But continuing to report that Miss K has a significant debt obligation 
when this isnt the case (and hasnt been the case for several years) isnt fair either, especially as the long-term nature of the mortgage means this could be reported for many 
years. So Santander needs to find a way to remove this from Miss Ks credit file. 
Putting things right
Santander made errors here. It said in its final response letter that Miss K remained jointly 
and severally liable for the mortgage. Thats not correct, which Santander now accepts. It 
told ICO that the mortgage wasnt included in Miss Ks bankruptcy. Miss K provided 
evidence that it was. And Santander is reporting that Miss K is responsible for a mortgage 
account, which I dont think fairly reflects the true situation.
So, Santander needs to amend what it is reporting to make sure that Miss Ks credit file 
reflects the true position. Santander has told us about the problems that this will create for it. 
However, its for me to decide what a business should do to put things right  I dont need to 
tell a business how it should do that. Thats a matter for Santander. If Santander needs to 
make changes to the account, it will need to contact Miss K about this. However, ultimately, 
it will need to correct its reporting so that it shows Miss K as no longer liable for the 
mortgage. And it will need to back date this to her discharge from bankruptcy. 
Santander shouldnt pursue Miss K for payments towards the mortgage debt. It can contact 
her if reasonably necessary for the purpose of enforcing its security.
I think it would be fair for Santander to pay compensation to Miss K for the upset and 
inconvenience caused by its errors. I need to take into account that Miss K was made 
bankrupt in 2017 and its likely her credit report shows a number of defaulted debts. Its 
unlikely the information recorded by Santander had an adverse effect on her credit score 
such as to make compensation for financial loss fair and reasonable. However, having to 
contact Santander to put matters right will have caused inconvenience and upset. In the 
circumstances, I think compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to take the steps and 
make the payment set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman