DRN-3883066
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Soteria Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Soteria, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include the 
intermediary and other insofar as I hold Soteria responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from about 1 October 2020, Mrs T had a vehicle insured on a comprehensive 
policy through an insurance intermediary. The policy was branded with the name of the 
intermediary. 
Soteria was responsible for dealing with any claim. Any claim for damage (except a 
windscreen claim) was subject to excesses totalling £250.00. 
On about 4 September 2021, the intermediary sent Mrs T a renewal invitation. Based on a 
no-claims discount (NCD) NCD of 9 years, the proposed premium was about £270.00.
Unfortunately, on 22 September 2021, Mrs T reported to Soteria that an unidentified third 
party driver had hit the rear of a vehicle that hit the rear of another vehicle that hit the rear of 
her vehicle, causing damage to her bumper.
On 24 September 2021, the intermediary told Mrs T the renewal price had increased to 
about £470.00, based on NCD of 6 years.
Soteria arranged repair of Mrs Ts vehicle, but she had to pay the £250.00 excess. Soterias 
outlay was the cost of the repair less the excess.
Mrs T complained to Soteria that it should put her back in the position she was in before the 
accident. By a final response dated 10 October 2021, Soteria turned down the complaint. It 
said the claim against the third party was still open.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us on 7 April 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Soteria had acted unfairly.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that: 
The insurer told her that if she made a claim, it would have no impact on her NCD or 
premium. 
If they had told her of the negative impacts up front, she could have decided to make 
her own arrangements to fix the car -or not.
She felt she had to renew the policy.
The insurer has confirmed that the third party driver was uninsured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Different insurance companies assess risk and set premiums in different ways at different 
times. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt able to say what is a fair level of premium.
Any claim  particularly a fault claim  is likely to affect the premium quoted for the next 
policy year.
When a motor insurer has made an outlay on a policyholders claim, its common practice for 
it to treat that claim as an open claim or as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and 
until it recovers its outlay in full (typically from a third party).
Many motor policies provide that, in the event of a claim, NCD will be stepped back by a few 
years.
Most motor policies include a term allowing the insurer to decide how best to deal with a 
claim involving a third party. The effect of such a term is that  on a question of liability 
against a third party - the insurers view will prevail over the policyholders view. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service will consider whether the insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably. Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from each of the drivers and decide the 
extent to which any of them is responsible for causing damage.
Mrs Ts policy with Soteria had a policy summary that highlighted the excesses totalling 
£250.00. So, on any claim, the excess of £250.00 would be an uninsured loss.
From the call recording, I accept that Soteria spoke with Mrs T about her making a claim 
against the third party or his insurer. It was in that context that Soteria said this wouldnt 
affect her financially. In any event, I dont consider that the telephone conversation could 
change the fact that, if Mrs T made a claim on her policy, then it would affect her NCD.
I cant say that the increased renewal premium was unfair. Whist I understand her reluctance 
to shop around for a lower premium, Mrs T was free to do so. She renewed the policy from 
about 1 October 2021. 
The final response was dated 10 October 2021 and it set out Soterias position.
From what Ive seen, Soteria didnt inspect Mrs Ts vehicle and authorise the repair until late 
October 2021, when the estimated cost of repair was about £2,600.00. In any event, Im 
satisfied that  - after the telephone conversation - Soteria had clarified the position and Mrs T 
had an opportunity to make other arrangements, but she wanted Soteria to do the repair.
Soteria initiated a claim to recover its outlay from the third party and instructed solicitors to 
act on its behalf. In the context of a multi-vehicle accident, I cant say that Soteria is 
responsible for any unreasonable delay. And ultimately, it will be Soterias decision how 
much further to pursue its claim for recovery of its outlay.
I understand why Mrs T finds it unfair to suffer additional cost as a result of an accident that 
surely wasnt her fault. However, I cant say that Soteria treated Mrs T unfairly. I dont conclude that it would be fair and reasonable to direct Soteria to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Soteria Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman