DRN-3853198
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Starling Bank Limited wont amend her name to include a title she uses.
 
What happened
Ms Y has an account with Starling. Ms Ys explained she uses a title to refer to herself. But 
Ms Y has confirmed she isnt using the title on the basis that it was inherited, awarded or 
purchased. And the title doesnt form part of Ms Ys name either. Ms Y asked Starling to 
amend her account name to include the title she uses. 
Starling said it couldnt amend Ms Ys title unless it had been bestowed on her, obtained via 
marriage or recorded as her first name via deed poll. 
Ms Y complained and said Starlings decision was unfair but it didnt agree it had made a 
mistake. An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ys complaint but thought Starlings 
decision was reasonable. 
Ms Y asked to appeal and said its not illegal to refer to herself using the title. Ms Y also said 
Starlings decision not to amend her account wasnt supported by the law. As Ms Y didnt 
accept the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Y has told us she goes by the title shes asked Starling to use and isnt aware of any law 
that prohibits her request. I take Ms Ys point. But Starling is free to decide how it operates. 
In this case, Starling has confirmed it can amend a title if the customer is entitled to use it. 
But it wont make the change on the basis the customer has chosen to use a title. 
I know Ms Y feels Starling should be able to explain its decision in terms of the law. But we 
decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. And whilst I understand Ms Y is entitled to 
refer to herself with any title she wishes to use, I havent been persuaded its unfair for 
Starling to require its account name to match her legal name. 
Starling has confirmed that if Ms Y amends her name via deed poll to include the title as her 
first name it would be able to amend her account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms Y but ask Im satisfied Starling dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman