DRN-3160562
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Zavarovalnica Sava DD mishandled her claim on a motor insurance
policy.
 
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is an estate car first registered in 2013. Mrs R acquired
it in 2016. The car passed an MOT in February 2019.
For the year from October 2019, Mrs R insured the car on a comprehensive policy under
which Zavarovalnica Sava DD was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Mrs R
dealt with that insurer through an intermediary.
From late December 2019, Mrs R was away on holiday for about three weeks and left the
car at home. After her return in January 2020, she found some issues with the car. That
included damage to the rear seatbelts  which a main dealer replaced in mid-January 2020
and invoiced £368.47.
On 31 January 2020, the car failed an MOT because a warning light showed a fault with an
airbag.
Mrs R has said that she and her husband bought a new car that arrived on 19 February
2020. On about 21 February 2020, Mrs Rs garage inspected the old car and later gave an
estimate of about £4,700.00 to replace wiring.
On 26 February 2020, the 2019 MOT certificate expired. On 27 February 2020, Mrs Rs
husbands assistant reported to the intermediary that rodents had damaged the car.
On 3 March 2020, an engineer inspected the car for the intermediary. The intermediary
instructed an investigator. He did a telephone interview of Mrs R and drafted her statement
in early April 2020. But Mrs R didnt sign it until 19 May 2020.
In mid-October 2020, the intermediary declined her claim, saying she hadnt taken all
reasonable steps to protect her car from loss or damage.
In early December 2020, Mrs R complained to the intermediary. She asked it to pay for
repairs and for the garages storage costs. The intermediary acknowledged Mrs Rs
complaint.
Mrs R didnt receive a final response within eight weeks. She brought her complaint to us in
early February 2021. Mrs R said that the insurer should repair the car and reimburse storage
charges of £20.00 per day.
In its email to us on 1 March 2021, the intermediary said it was willing to offer Mrs R £300.00
in respect of the delays in communicating its decision to her.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. At first, he
recommended that the intermediary should:
1. accept Mrs Rs claim as valid under the terms and conditions of the policy, and 
arrange for the repair of all damage to her car caused by rodents; and
2. refund Mrs R the amount shes already paid for the replacement of the rear seatbelts 
in her car that were damaged by the rodents; and
3. pay the storage costs accrued while Mrs Rs car has been with her appointed garage; 
and
4. pay Mrs R £500.00 for the distress and inconvenience shed encountered over the 
prolonged claim and complaint period.
Later the investigator changed his recommendation. He thought that, while she was on
holiday, the rodents caused initial damage limited to the rear seat belts and air bag. The
rodents continued to enter Mrs Rs car and cause further damage between 10 January 2020
and 20 February 2020, when the garages report listed many more faults (14 in total) than
those initially noted.
Our investigator thought that the delay in reporting the incident meant the intermediary
wasnt given the opportunity to collect and inspect Mrs Rs car shortly after 10 January 2020
or to identify the rodent issue and take action to prevent further damage or to investigate
whether the warning light was a result of the damage caused by the rodents. So the
investigator thought that the intermediary wasnt required to make any payment in relation to
repairs for the further damage and the intermediary wasnt required to pay for storage costs
Mrs R incurred while her car had been at her appointed garage since 20 February 2020.
Our investigator recommended that the intermediary should:
1. refund Mrs R £368.47 for the invoice for replacing the rear seat belts; and
2. pay Mrs R £300.00 in consideration of the delays during the claim process.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R  
and to Zavarovalnica Sava DD on 14 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
The intermediary had told us the following:
Zavarovalnica Sava DD was registered with the FCA under FRN 809431. 
Our contract with them for underwriting capacity included delegated authority 
for us to oversee claims up to £25,000 and we can deal with complaints.
So I was treating the complaint as a complaint against Zavarovalnica Sava DD and I 
was treating the actions of the intermediary as actions on behalf of that insurer.
The inspecting engineer had said the following:The [non-network repairer] estimate has come in at £4736.89 inc vat, just 
changing the rates to network changes the estimate to £3607.43 inc vat
Mrs R paid to replace the seatbelts weeks before she made her insurance claim. She 
sought to add the seatbelts to her claim during the course of our investigation. Up to 
that time I dont think she had made a claim for the seatbelts or a complaint that the 
insurer hadnt paid that claim. So I didnt agree with the investigator that its fair and 
reasonable to direct the insurer to reimburse her for the seatbelts.
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to pay Mrs R its 
engineers estimate of £3,607.43 less the excess of £650.00. As I considered that the 
insurer shouldve made a payment much earlier, I intended to direct it to add interest 
at our usual rate.
By its delay and by a decision Id found unfair, the insurer had caused Mrs R distress 
and inconvenience. On balance, I found its offer of £300.00 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for this.
Subject to any further information from Mrs R or from Zavarovalnica Sava DD, my 
provisional decision was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct 
Zavarovalnica Sava DD to pay Mrs R:
1. its estimate of £3,607.43 less the excess of £650.00, a balance of £2,957.43; and
2. simple interest on that balance at a yearly rate of 8% from 27 February 2020 to the 
date of its payment. If Zavarovalnica Sava DD considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Neither Mrs R nor Zavarovalnica Sava DD has responded to the provisional decision.  So I 
see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The intermediary has only provided one telephone recording  dated 11 March 2020.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against a regulated
financial firm. Where its a complaint about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a
complaint against the insurer that was responsible for dealing with that claim. In our final
decision we name that insurer, but we dont name any other party.
The intermediary has told us the following:
Zavarovalnica Sava DD was registered with the FCA under FRN 809431. Our
contract with them for underwriting capacity included delegated authority for us to
oversee claims up to £25,000 and we can deal with complaints.So Ive treated the complaint as a complaint against Zavarovalnica Sava DD and Ive treated 
the actions of the intermediary as actions on behalf of that insurer.
From October 2019, the policy covered damage to the car. But that was subject to a policy
excess of £650.00. It was also subject to the policy terms. Those terms included the
following:
What is not covered
Loss or damage caused by rust, corrosion, wear and tear or any loss of value
including following repair
Loss or damage caused by any mechanical, electrical, computer breakdown,
failure or breakage
General Conditions
You must:
Comply with the following conditions to have the full protection of your policy. You
should also ensure any other named driver complies with them. If you or any other
named driver do not comply with them we may cancel the policy as detailed below,
refuse to deal with any relevant claims, or reduce the amount of any relevant claim
payments
3. Protecting your car
You must take all reasonable steps to protect your car and its contents from loss or
damage.
4. Maintaining your car
You must make sure your car is roadworthy including that it has, if required, a valid
MOT
5. Claims
If you or your car are involved in any type of incident, accident, claim or loss
regardless of fault you must;
a) tell us as soon as possible.
b) give us full control of the claim including the uplift storage and repair of your 
car.
On about 10 January 2020, Mrs R noticed damage to the rear seatbelts. From what
happened later, I accept that it was rodents that caused the damage to the seatbelts. Within
a week, Mrs R got that repaired at a franchised garage.
She has said that - on 10 January 2020 - there were other issues. These included a failure of
the hands-free telephone facility. The issues also included a warning light relating to an
airbag. She has said that warning lights come on all the time and then go off  and that the
franchised garage didnt comment. But I consider that  together  the seatbelt damage, the
telephone failure and the warning light were evidence of rodent damage.
Mrs R carried on using the car  even after the airbag warning light caused it to fail an MOT.
She didnt take the car to a garage until shortly after the new car arrived.
Her garage identified a dozen electrical problems on about 21 February 2020. Within a
week, Mrs Rs husbands assistant initiated her insurance claim.
In early March 2020, the insurer inspected and photographed the car. The photographs of
the cars interior showed weeks - if not months - build-up of dirt and debris. That included 
in the centre console and cupholder  what look like crumbs. The inspecting engineer
expressed the following opinion:
The maintenance/condition of the vehicle is the cause of the claim
The [non-network repairer] estimate has come in at £4736.89 inc vat, just changingthe rates to network changes the estimate to £3607.43 inc vat with a possibility of
further damage when stripped.
The vehicles value in retail condition is £8370 inc vat. This vehicle is far from a retail
condition.
No doubt the first Covid-19 lockdown caused some delay until about July 2020. But the
insurer didnt communicate with Mrs R until October 2020 and I consider that was an
unreasonable delay.
The insurer declined the claim, citing the policy term about protecting the car from damage.
Mrs R looked online and blamed the use of vegetable-based covering for attracting rodents 
to the wiring. She hasnt provided enough evidence specific to her car.
But I consider it likely that rodents may damage a car that is cleaner than Mrs Rs was. So I
consider that the insurer has fallen short of showing that Mrs R carelessly (let alone
recklessly) failed to protect her car from rodent damage. I find that the insurer treated her
unfairly by declining her claim on that ground.
More recently, the insurer has submitted to us that Mrs R shouldve made her claim sooner.
But I accept that she didnt realise there was rodent damage until late February 2020 when
she made her claim. I dont consider that unreasonable. 
 
Putting things right
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable to try, at this stage, to put Mrs R back in the
position she shouldve been in after she made her claim.
Mrs R paid to replace the seatbelts weeks before she made her insurance claim. Our file
shows that she sought to add the seatbelts to her claim during the course of our 
investigation. Up to that time I dont think she had made a claim for the seatbelts or a
complaint that the insurer hadnt paid that claim. So I dont agree with the investigator that
its fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to reimburse her for the seatbelts.
Mrs R had taken the car to her chosen garage, which wasnt one of the insurers network of
repairers. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold the insurer responsible for the storage
charges Mrs R says the garage charged. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct the
insurer to pay more than the rates it wouldve paid one of its network of repairers.
As shes scrapped the car, I wont direct the insurer to repair it.
As I cant say the car wouldve been uneconomic to repair, I wont direct the insurer to pay its 
market value as at January 2020.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to pay Mrs R its engineers estimate of 
£3,607.43 less the excess of £650.00. As I consider that the insurer shouldve made a 
payment much earlier, I will direct it to add interest at our usual rate.
I accept that, by its delay and by a decision Ive found unfair, the insurer has caused Mrs R
distress and inconvenience. On balance, I find its offer of £300.00 is fair and reasonable
compensation for this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct Zavarovalnica Sava DD to pay Mrs R:1. its estimate of £3,607.43 less the excess of £650.00, a balance of £2,957.43; and
2. simple interest on that balance at a yearly rate of 8% from 27 February 2020 to the 
date of its payment. If Zavarovalnica Sava DD considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman