DRN-3731148
The complaint
Miss S complains that Foundation for Credit Counselling trading as Stepchange 
made mistakes when setting up a Debt Relief Order (DRO).
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my 
provisional decision. I said:
In 2018 and 2019 Miss S discussed her finances with Stepchange with a view to 
receiving advice about her debts. As part of the process, Miss S gave Stepchange 
information about her outstanding debts. Miss S had some unsecured credit that 
remained outstanding. And there was a County Court Judgement (CCJ) for around 
£9,000 that related to rent arrears.
Stepchange says it recorded the creditors name as HCEO in line with what Miss S told 
the advisor. But Miss S has explained that HCEO referred to the High Court Enforcement 
Officers who were seeking to collect the CCJ debt on the creditors behalf. Miss S also 
says Stepchange failed to note the correct reference number.
Stepchange ultimately arranged a DRO for Miss S and included the unsecured debts 
as well as the CCJ. Stepchange says it called Miss S to confirm the details of her debts 
and creditors before the DRO was submitted for approval. And Stepchange says Miss 
S confirmed the information, including reference to HCEO as a creditor, was correct.
The DRO was approved but Miss S later contacted Stepchange to say the CCJ issued in 
relation to rent arrears hadnt been included. As a result, the debt wasnt written off when 
the DRO was concluded. Miss S complained and Stepchange sent her a final response 
but didnt agree it had made mistakes when arranging the DRO.
An investigator at this service looked at Miss S complaint. They thought Stepchange 
had dealt with Miss S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss S 
asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has explained that HCEO refers to the High Court Enforcement Officer which 
was seeking to collect the CCJ debt. And Miss S has explained that as a result of 
including HCEO in the DRO application the CCJ for her rent arrears wasnt included. 
Miss S says that Stepchange also made a mistake with the reference used in the DRO 
application. Miss S has forwarded evidence from The Sheriffs Office that shows the debt 
remains outstanding and continues to accrue interest.
Miss S has told us that Stepchange took a copy of a text message that contained a 
reference to HCEO when she first discussed her debts in 2018. But Miss S says she 
explained HCEO was the agent seeking to collect the debt in relation to a CCJ for rent 
arrears. Stepchange says it took this information from Miss S who later confirmed it 
was the name of her creditor. But Ive reviewed all the notes provided by Stepchange 
and at times it does appear that HCEO is understood to be the collections agent. I can 
also see theres information about the CCJ and rent arrears in Stepchanges notes.
Miss S has told us HCEO is a common abbreviation for High Court Enforcement 
Officer and I think shes right. Even if the advisor who arranged the DRO wasnt aware 
of the common abbreviation, I think they shouldve done more to clarify the creditors 
details when setting up the DRO. Its clear HCEO stood for something and I think 
Stepchange shouldve checked the actual name of the creditor rather than relying on an 
abbreviation when setting up the DRO.
Stepchange says it checked the details of the DRO with Miss S over the phone before it 
was submitted. But Stepchanges contact notes show a charity that supports vulnerable 
consumers with serious health conditions paid for the DRO application. And 
Stepchanges notes show Miss S explained her medical condition means she can 
become flustered. So I think it was especially important for Stepchange to ensure the 
DRO contained the correct details.
In my view, Stepchange failed to carry out reasonable checks when setting up Miss S 
DRO. I think its fair to say that if the correct creditor details had been added to the 
DRO application, the CCJ wouldve been included.
The DRO was ultimately approved and ran its course from June 2019. At its conclusion, 
debts included were written off. That means Miss S wouldve been discharged from the 
CCJ if it had been correctly included. Miss S has forwarded correspondence from The 
Sheriffs Office that confirms the debt remained outstanding and has continued to accrue 
interest. So Im satisfied the primary debt that ought to have been included in the DRO 
was not. And the information Ive seen leads me to conclude that was due to 
Stepchanges actions. To put it another way, had Stepchange handled Miss S DRO 
application with reasonable care the correct creditor details wouldve been included and 
she would no longer be liable for the CCJ debt.
Ive carefully considered how to resolve this complaint. Miss S has provided evidence 
that shows the CCJ remains outstanding and continues to accrue interest. In my view, 
the fairest way to resolve this case is for Stepchange to work with Miss S to obtain an up 
to date settlement figure for the CCJ and pay that cost to The Sheriffs Office to clear it.
I can see the situation has caused Miss S a significant level of distress and inconvenience 
over an extended period. Miss S has told us shes been subject to visits from enforcement 
officers in relation to the CCJ debt and Im satisfied the DRO issues have unfairly 
impacted her. So I also intend to tell Stepchange to pay Miss S £500 to reflect the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information they wanted me to take 
into account before I made my final decision.
Stepchange said it had sent Miss S a copy of the DRO order to check before it had been 
sent for authorisation. Stepchange also said it had used the name HCEO in the DRO 
because it was the creditor that was contacting Miss S to collect the debt at the time of 
the application. Stepchange noted HCEO is a widely known abbreviation for High Court 
Enforcement Officer. Stepchange also provided a copy of an email from the Insolvency 
Service to The Sheriffs Office from November 2020 that said it had no rights to pursue 
Miss S for a debt to HCEO following approval of the DRO.Stepchange also said it didnt agree it should cover the outstanding balance as it wasnt 
responsible for the original debt. Stepchange offered to pay Miss S bankruptcy fees in 
place of repaying the outstanding balance. Stepchange also said it felt a payment of £500 
in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused was excessive.
Miss S responded and confirmed she accepted the terms of the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has told us Stepchange didnt send a copy of the final DRO application to her for 
approval but called and completed the process over the phone. Stepchange says thats 
part of its stand process when setting up the DRO, but hasnt provided a copy of what it 
sent to Miss S to approve. So we have two different versions of events. But, even if I were 
to accept Stepchange sent Miss S a copy of the DRO for approval, I still think it made an 
avoidable error. And the consequences of the error have been significant for Miss S.
Stepchanges response accepts that HCEO is a well known abbreviation of enforcement 
agents that collect debts on behalf of The Sheriffs office. And it says the use of HCEO was 
made on the basis Miss S would update it before the DRO was approved. In my view, the 
case handler at Stepchange ought to have picked this point up with Miss S before 
submitting the application. Miss S isnt a professional and was receiving guidance and 
advice on the DRO process from Stepchange. And I remain of the view that Stepchange 
ought to have known that using HCEO as the creditors name on the final DRO application 
would lead to problems for Miss S.
Stepchanges response also says it notes the HCEO in the DRO application as its the 
creditor seeking to recover the debt. But an HCEO isnt a creditor. Stepchanges 
website gives information about the role of an HCEO. It says:
The HCEO is a type of enforcement agent or bailiffA Creditor can use HCEOs if you 
have a CCJ and youve not made the payment the court told you to make in the 
judgement.
Stepchanges website explains the HCEO acts on behalf of the creditor to recover an 
outstanding CCJ debt. In this case, the DRO application was submitted with HCEO listed 
as the creditor for the CCJ debt. As Ive said above, I think Miss S case handler ought to 
have been aware that leaving HCEO as the creditor in the final DRO application was a 
mistake.
As no DRO has been approved that includes the actual CCJ creditor, the debt has not 
been written off. Stepchange has provided a copy of the Insolvency Services email from 
November 2020 to The Sheriffs Office. It says:
It has come to our notice that you are still pursing the above named person for a debt 
to HCEO for which there are no rights of recovery following the approval of the above 
mentioned Debt Relief Order. 
But, The Sheriffs Office isnt pursuing Miss S for a debt to HCEO. It is pursuing her for 
a debt in relation to rent arrears to a private individual, as per the CCJ. Its also clear 
from the information provided that Miss S continues to be pursued for the outstanding 
balance which is accruing interest on a daily basis.Our approach to resolving a complaint is to try and put the consumer back into the position 
they wouldve been in had no error been made. I note Stepchanges offer to pay 
bankruptcy fees now. But I dont agree thats a fair way to resolve Miss S complaint. The 
proposal makes an assumption about Miss S current circumstances. In addition, the 
impact of a bankruptcy three years after the complaint event would be significant on 
Miss S.
Ultimately, I remain of the view that Stepchange made an avoidable and significant error. 
As a result, Miss S main debt wasnt included in the DRO. Had Stepchange sought to 
confirm the creditors name and details before sending the DRO for approval the CCJ debt 
wouldve been included. And Miss S would now be discharged from her obligation to repay 
it. In my opinion the fairest way to resolve this complaint is Stepchange to pay the balance 
of the CCJ debt now as that will remove Miss S obligation to repay it.
As a result of the CCJ debt remaining in place, Miss S has been contacted and visited on 
various occasions by the HCEO. The issue remains unresolved and has been ongoing for a 
significant period. I note Stepchanges view that £500 feels excessive in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss S but disagree. I still think Stepchanges actions 
cause unnecessary trouble and upset and that a payment of £500 fairly reflects that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I intend to uphold Miss S complaint and direct Foundation for 
Credit Counselling trading as Stepchange to settle as follows:
- Obtain an up to date settlement figure for the CCJ debt in relation to rent arrears 
and make a payment to settle it
- Pay Miss S a total of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman