DRN-3378489
The complaint
Miss A makes a number of complaints about Barclays Bank UK PLC following a number of 
disputed transactions from her account.
What happened
Miss A says she told Barclays about a number of disputed transactions on her account from 
September 2020. She says the money was refunded but later debited from her account 
without notice or without the opportunity for her to make further representations about the 
transactions. Miss A says that meant her account was overdrawn by just over £700 and that 
she did not receive Barclays letters about this issue until after the money was debited. She 
says Barclays then decided to close her accounts which included a Help to Buy Individual 
Savings Account (ISA). Miss A says she asked Barclays to transfer this account to another 
business, but it didnt do so and as a result she was forced to take out a Lifetime ISA as a 
Help to Buy ISA is no longer available. 
Miss A would like Barclays to pay compensation for its mistake and the way in which it dealt 
with her. She would also like compensation for the telephone calls and time she spent trying 
to sort matters out and for the loss of investment. Miss A says Barclays has unfairly reported 
her account position to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) as missed payments which 
she would like removed.
Barclays says it was entitled to close Miss As accounts in line with agreed account terms 
and conditions and says it gave Miss A appropriate notice. It says it was also entitled to debit 
the refunded money when it completed its investigation into the disputed transactions. 
Barclays says that meant Miss As account became overdrawn and is required to report that 
to the CRAs. It says it couldnt transfer the ISA due to the account blocks in place but 
accepts those actions would have caused Miss A distress and has offered £200 
compensation for that part of the complaint.
Miss A brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought overall Barclays 
compensation offer appropriate. The investigator didnt think Barclays had been clear about 
the reasons why the ISA was not transferred but didnt think it possible to say what if any 
loss had been caused. The investigator didnt think the Barclays ISA was used as a savings 
account in any event.
Miss A doesnt accept that view and has provided evidence of her Lifetime ISA which she 
opened. She says in summary £200 compensation isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Miss A makes a number of complaints about 
Barclays but accept her main complaint is about the ISA.
I have looked carefully at Barclays records and can see that it did investigate the disputed 
transactions. I can also see that it fairly refunded Miss A the money whilst it carried out those 
investigations and I think it ought to have been clear to her that there was a risk of the 
money being debited. Im satisfied Barclays wrote to Miss A about the outcome of its 
investigation. I appreciate Miss A says she didnt receive the letters in time but that is not 
something I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for as its not involved in the delivery of the 
mail. In any event I dont think it likely, based on the reasons I have seen for the rejection of 
the disputed transactions claim, that any further representations by Miss A would have made 
any difference to the outcome. So, it follows that I dont think Barclays made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by debiting Miss As account with the money it had temporarily credited. And 
Im also satisfied that Barclays is entitled in line with agreed account terms and conditions to 
close an account by providing appropriate notice which I can see it did here.
I appreciate Miss A says that Barclays unfairly reported the overdrawn account balance to 
the CRAs. I am sure Miss A is aware that Barclays is obliged to accurately report its 
customers accounts position to the CRAs. Im satisfied that is what took place here and that 
Barclays didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by reporting the overdrawn balance on Miss 
As account to the CRAs and it follows that I cant fairly order Barclays to amend or remove 
that information.
The main part of Miss As complaint is Barclays failure to transfer her Help to Buy ISA. I 
dont think its clear why Barclays wouldnt transfer it and I cant see what difference it made 
by Miss As accounts being designated for closure. I also think that Barclays ought to have 
clearly explained what was happening to Miss A and appreciated her concern about the ISA 
scheme as her type of ISA was no longer available. I accept Miss A was caused distress and 
inconvenience in those circumstances.
I also appreciate Miss A says she should be compensated for the investment loss caused by 
Barclays actions. I can see from the Barclays ISA statements that Miss A was not using her 
account as savings account and the balance at the relevant time was about zero. I have not 
seen any evidence of a loss caused by Barclays actions and think it impossible to say what if 
any impact the failure to transfer the ISA would have had on Miss A.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to close Miss As accounts and was entitled 
to debit the disputed transactions refund. Im also satisfied that Barclays offer of £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable and reflects the impact had upon Miss A. Miss As 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman