DRN-2120462
The complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time between 
1996 and 2000. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the account at the 
same time as Mr P applied for the card. 
Our adjudicator didnt find that the policy had been mis-sold. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided that Mr Ps PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr P applied for his credit card some time between 1996 and 2000 and its possible he 
bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the case. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its most 
likely Mr P bought the PPI at the same time as applying for his credit card. 
I think its likely Lloyds made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it. I say this because from what we know about Lloyds sales processes 
between 1996 and 2000, Mr P wouldve had to actively select the PPI during the credit 
card application process. So I think he wouldve known he had a choice about buying 
the PPI. 
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr P, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Even 
though Mr P says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to those benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think 
Mr P wouldve had some use for the policy, despite his existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr P would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman