DRN-3390466
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money (Madison) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Madison, here is a brief table of the loans approved. Loan 5 was 
withdrawn and the capital repaid and no interest was paid by Mr B.
Loan Approved Amount Term Repay each 
monthSettled
1 9 October
2014£1,500
Consolidate debt12 m £171.47 21 Jan 2015
In debt 3.5 months
2 3 Feb 2015 £2,000
Holiday or travel24 m £141.43 19 August 2015
In debt 6.5 months
Gap 5.5 months after 10 months in debt
3 28 Jan 2016 £1,500
Home furnishing24 m £116.88 10 March 2016
Gap of 15.5 months
4 28 June
2017£2,000
Electric goods24 m £155.75 24 Jan 2018
5 24 Jan 2018 Total £2,654.91 of 
which £1,654.91 to be 
used to pay off loan 4 
and £1,000 cash24 m Withdrawn
On 26 January 2018
£1,654.91 paid off and 
£1,000 not taken
Mr B said I initially took out a loan with 118 118 Money to cover my other loans I had at this 
time. I was borrowing from various other lenders at the time. My financial situation was dire. 
I was working full time and was finding it incredibly difficult to stay on top of all my bills.
Mr B felt that if Madison had carried out sufficient checks it would not have lent to him.
Our adjudicator wrote her first view citing three loans and before the business file had been 
received. That was because Madison did not send us the business file for several months.
Having received all the information our adjudicator needed from Madison, her second view 
was more detailed and in it our adjudicator gave reasons as to why she thought that 
Madison ought not to have lent to Mr B at all. Our adjudicator thought that Madison should 
put things right in relation to all five loans.
Mr Bs representative accepted that outcome. Madison did not and said:
oLoan 5 was withdrawn and so no interest was paid; and
oit disputed the reasons for the uphold for loan 2  namely that there were mortgage 
arrears. Madison said that according to its records, there were two missed mortgage 
payments 22 months before loan 2 was approved which it did not think was enough 
to lead it to not lend.
oit also said that our adjudicators reference to Mr Bs poor credit card record was a 
case of poor monthly payment management by Mr B rather than an indication of 
struggling to repay them;
oMadison did not agree that the credit search result it had carried out before approving 
loan 3 showed a history of serious arrears;
oMadison did not accept that before loan 4, Mr B had been missing his mortgage 
payments.
Madison made no comment in relation to loan 1.
Our adjudicators third view was to correct the loan 5 situation and her view was that 
Madison should put things right for Mr B in relation to loans 1 to 4.
Madison disagreed again and said that as well as the earlier points, it also wished to know 
why and how our adjudicator had calculated that Mr B was spending a significant proportion 
of his income on the loans. It told us that:
For loan two, we've calculated that the customer will be spending 11%, including our 
loan repayment.
For loan three, we've calculated that the customer will be spending 25%, including 
our loan repayment.
For loan four, we've calculated that the customer will be spending 26%, including our 
loan repayment.
Our adjudicator issued a fourth view to amend one aspect. The unresolved complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
Considering the above I reviewed the whole complaint and issued a provisional decision on 
20 April 2022. In that provisional decision I gave reasons why I was planning not to uphold 
loans 1 to 3, I was planning to uphold the complaint in relation to loan 4, and as loan 5 had 
been withdrawn and no interest was paid by Mr B there was no loss, I did not review loan 5.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
othe lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
othe higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
othe greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
What follows is a duplicate of my provisional decision in smaller type to differentiate it. 
my provisional decision dated 20 April 2022
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. And although Madison has not responded in relation to 
loan 1, because the parties have received four letters of opinion from our adjudicator I have chosen to 
review all four loans. I indicated earlier that Id not be reviewing loan 5. Ive considered what Mr B has 
told us and I have had the advantage of being able to review Mr Bs bank statements which I have 
used to see Mr Bs income and his normal expenditure.
Loan 1
Mr B applied for a relatively modest sum of £1,500, and as a new customer, where the term involved 
a 12 month repayment period I would have expected Madison to know details about Mr Bs income 
and expenditure and credit situation. Madison had collected data from him about his monthly income 
after tax (£4,509 a month) plus his outgoings. Those included mortgage, insurance, council tax, 
utilities, food costs and childcare and all came to £1,625.
In addition, Mr B had declared that he spent around £620 a month on other credit commitments. 
Madison carried out a credit search and I have reviewed the results it received in 2014 when Mr B 
applied for loan 1. I can see from the search results that his mortgage was higher at around £824 a 
month and I can see that he had two other credit facilities costing him around £549 each month. He 
had three credit cards  two were well under their limits and had no payment issues. A third credit 
card was just over the card limit but Mr B had been paying towards it each month.
Theres nothing in these credit search results which I think would have caused Madison to be alerted 
to any financial issues and as Mr Bs disposable income was good then even if Madison had a concern I doubt it would have deterred it from lending. Madison carried out checks proportionate to 
the loan, the term and the fact Mr B was a new customer with a good disposable income.
I plan not to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr B applied for loan 2 about two weeks after repaying loan 1 about eight months earlier than 
scheduled. It was for more money and to be repaid over a longer term. Mr B gave Madison 
information about his income and expenditure. The figures were not quite the same as for loan 1. His 
income was a little less at £4,493. Mr B gave a figure of £832 for his mortgage and had declared that 
his credit repayments had reduced from £620 to £320 each month. So, his total expenditure was 
around £1,739 which included mortgage, insurance, council tax, utilities, food costs and childcare. 
Added to which was the £320 for other credit commitments.
Madison had carried out a credit search and it showed that the one credit card which had been just 
over its limit had been paid down substantially since October 2014. And all three credit cards were 
under their limits.
Addressing the point raised by our adjudicator and Madison about the mortgage repayments  then 
I can see that Mr B had a late payment record of 2 about 22 months before loan 2 was approved. But 
immediately after that the repayments returned to normal and there had been no problems since that 
date. I doubt that this would have been, or ought to have been, a concern for Madison. And even it 
was, Mr Bs monthly disposable income was healthy at around £2,400.
Even if Madison had looked at Mr Bs bank statements for the period leading up to the loan 2 approval 
in early February 2025, I have reviewed the period up to 31 December 2014 ( I do not have the set for 
January 2015), and there is nothing in those bank transaction lists which leads me to think that 
Madison would have had such concerns that it considered lending to Mr B was irresponsible.
I am planning not to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
Mr B had been in debt to Madison in total for ten months and after paying off loan 2 about seventeen 
months earlier than scheduled, followed by a five and a half month gap with no debt to Madison, Mr B 
returned to Madison to apply for loan 3.
I have thought carefully about whether this gap in the lending relationship broke the lending chain. 
I think it may have done but ultimately this may be an academic point. And I say this because looking 
at the terms, £1,500 over 24 months, I think that the checks proportionate for it would have been for 
Madison to have carried out a full financial review. And so, the five month gap in the lending 
relationship would not likely have made a difference to what I would have expected Madison to have 
carried out before approving loan 3.
Mr B gave Madison information about his net income and expenditure: £4,400 for his income and 
around £1,760 for all expenditure plus an additional £550 a month on other credit commitments.
Madison carried out a credit search and I have reviewed the results and what Madison saw in January 
2016. The total balances on Mr Bs loan and instalment credit figure had increased and his Balance 
to limit ratio had increased to 91% for revolving credit accounts. The bank loan he had taken out in 
August 2015 was for £22,120 and was costing Mr B around £486 each month. And Mr B looks to 
have taken a second mortgage.
The increase in debt was significant but it was a bank loan  not a loan from a high cost lender or a 
series of payday loans. I do not hold the same view as that of our adjudicator  that the credit search 
results showed a history of serious arrears. And so, I would not expect Madison to have raised an 
alert about it. And I have seen from the figures that Mr B was able to afford them and the Madison 
Loan 3 was much less - £116 a month - than the other two Madison loans.I do not think that Madison did review Mr Bs bank statements before approving loan 3, and if Madison 
had done that, as I have bank statements for the period leading up to the end of January 2016, then 
I have looked to see what Madison would have seen if it had reviewed them.
I dont consider that the bank transactions reveal anything which likely would have caused Madison to 
decide not to lend. I can see Mr B paid out to his mortgage provider, the further mortgage provider 
and bank loan and had an account with a high  cost lender. But these would have been seen by 
Madison with its credit search. In my view Madison carried out proportionate checks and if it had done 
additional checks still I do not think that there was enough information here to suggest that Mr B was 
either struggling financially or unable to afford the £116 a month for loan 3.
I am planning not to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 3.
Loan 4
After paying off loan 3, Mr B returned to Madison for loan 4 after fifteen and a half months. In my view 
this does break the lending chain and I think that it was reasonable of Madison to have approached 
Mr Bs application for loan 4 as if he were a new customer.
Mr B wanted a loan of £2,000 and to be repaid over 24 months and so although the payment of just 
over £155 a month was not particularly high, I think that the two year commitment meant that Madison 
needed to have carried out a full review of Mr Bs finances.
Mr B declared net monthly income of £4,700 and his total expenditure including mortgages, council 
tax, utilities, food, childcare and insurance came to around £1,982 plus Mr B told Madison he was 
spending around £790 a month on card and loan payments. He told Madison that the reason for the 
loan was electrical goods.
Madison carried out a credit search and Mr B had been receiving defaults. One of those related to an 
account which on Madisons credit search records showed as gambling and so Madison was on 
notice that Mr B had an issue with that. Looking at Mr Bs bank statements I can see that Mr B was 
gambling regularly in July 2017.
Mr Bs overall indebtedness had increased mainly because he had paid off two mortgages and 
obtained a building society new mortgage costing him more each month. So, I agree with Madison 
where it says that it disputes that our adjudicator had said he had been missing his mortgage 
repayments. Mr B had restructured that debt.
Mr Bs credit cards were close to, or over, their maximum limits. And it seems that Mr B had other 
loans too plus at least one high-cost account which Mr B had been running for several years.
I have received Mr Bs bank statements which cover some of 2017 but unfortunately I do not have the 
bank statements covering the period May and June 2017. However, I can see Mr Bs outgoings on his 
gambling which were taking place in July 2017 and so I thinks its reasonable to assume, especially 
with the gambling account default, that this was a regular activity of Mr Bs in 2017.
This element does alter things as the picture appears to be of someone taking credit regularly which 
was escalating and likely needed to provide funds for gambling. So  on the evidence I have now for 
loan 4, and after a full financial review, I do not think that Madison ought to have lent to Mr B.
I am planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 4.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision.
How did the parties respond to the provisional decision?
Mr Bs representative has written to us to say it has nothing further to send to support Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Madison has not responded to the provisional decision.Therefore I see no reason to alter my findings and so for the same reasons given in the 
provisional decision which are repeated here and form part of this final determination, 
I uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 4, and I make no finding in relation to loan 5 as the loan 
was withdrawn with no loss to Mr B. 
Putting things right
I uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 4 and direct that Madison CF UK Limited should:
oremove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 4;
otreat any payments made by Mr B as payments towards the capital sum of £2,000;
oif Mr B has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to 
him with interest* of 8% simple a year from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
oremove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to take off tax from this interest. Madison must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and I direct that Madison CF UK 
Limited does as I have directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman