DRN-3264245
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car acquired with finance from Mi Vehicle Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr J was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MVF. When the car was MOTd in October 2020 the garage found water in the boot and 
issues with the electrics. Mr J complained to MVF, who arranged for the car to be inspected. 
The inspection found large amounts of water in the boot floor space which had caused 
damage to the electrics in the car. MVF arranged for repairs to be carried out, but when the 
car was returned to Mr J, he wasnt happy because there was still mould in it. He asked to 
reject the car. 
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I was satisfied that there was a fault with the 
car, and I thought it was reasonable that MVF had attempted repairs. Based on the 
information I saw, I wasnt satisfied that the repairs had been successful, and I thought MVF 
acted fairly in allowing Mr J to reject the car. The nub of Mr Js complaint was about the 
redress. I said Id expect MVF to refund the deposit (which it had done). I said that although 
Mr J had been without the car whilst it was being repaired, he had been provided with a hire 
car and kept mobile throughout, so I didnt think MVF needed to pay compensation for loss 
of use. I thought it had taken a long time to repair the car and initially MVF had expected Mr 
J to take the car for repairs itself, which had caused delay. I said MVF should pay 
compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience. I acknowledged that Mr J had paid for 
some extras when he got the car but I felt that hed had the benefit of these whilst the car 
was in his possession so I didnt think it was reasonable to ask MVF to refund these. 
MVF said it accepted my provisional decision, although it thought the compensation was 
high as it had paid over £3000 for the hire car which was provided to Mr J. 
Mr J didnt think my provisional decision was fair. He said hed paid 14 monthly payments on 
the car but hadnt had it in his possession for 5 of those months. He felt that hed paid for a 
hire car which has said he hadnt wanted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what both Mr J has said, my decision hasnt changed. Ive taken into 
account that Mr J was without the use of his car for 5 months whilst it was being repaired, 
but Im satisfied that he was kept mobile during this time in a hire car. I cant see any 
evidence to suggest that Mr J didnt want the hire car. Ive thought again about the length of 
time it took for the repairs to be completed, and I still think compensation of £250 is fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
MVF has already collected the car, refunded the deposit plus interest and made sure Mr Js 
credit file bears no adverse entries relating to the agreement. It should therefore conclude 
the matter by paying compensation of £250 to Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mi Vehicle Finance must pay compensation 
of £250 to Mr J for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman