DRN-4155203
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains Euler Hermes SA/NV didnt pay two claims it made on its 
Advanced Payment Protection insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2022 M took out Advanced Payment Protection Insurance with Euler which 
provided cover (subject to policy terms and conditions) for money paid to an insured supplier 
in anticipation of the delivery of goods by that supplier.  
M made a claim on the policy in March 2022. It said it had made an advance payment of 
around £8,100 for goods from a supplier (C) which hadnt been delivered. It made another 
claim in May in relation to goods that hadnt been delivered by a different supplier (S) for 
around £2,750. 
Euler said the policy didnt cover claims where the debt was disputed by the supplier. And 
that was the case for both of the claims M made. It said if the disputes were resolved in 
favour of M it would reconsider matters. In response to the complaint M then made Euler 
said the claims had been correctly declined because of the ongoing disputes. It also said 
there were unpaid premiums on the policy amounting to around £4,600. 
However, in order to resolve the complaint it said if M paid those premiums it would pay both 
claims. Alternatively it could refund the premiums M had paid and terminate the policy 
(without paying the claims). M said it had cancelled its direct debit and hence the policy with 
effect from the end of May 2022. It believed premiums had been paid until that date. It didnt 
think any further payments were due so didnt accept the offer Euler made. 
Subsequently, in response to legal action Eulers solicitors initiated against C, that business 
said it had been the victim of fraud and never had a contract with M. Euler therefore 
withdrew its previous offer to make payment on this claim because it said M had paid a 
fraudulent third party rather than the insured supplier it had approved. 
Our investigator agreed M hadnt paid the premiums that were due for a policy which had a 
12 month contract. So it was in breach of the terms. And in any event the claims it had made 
both involved disputes with suppliers and the policy didnt provide cover where that was the 
case. In addition for the claim against C it did appear M had paid someone other than the 
insured supplier. So he didnt think Euler acted unfairly in withdrawing the offer it had made 
to pay this claim. And the value of the claim against S was less than the unpaid premiums on 
the policy meaning there was nothing for Euler to pay here either. 
M didnt agree. In summary it said 
It believed it had met the claims conditions of the policy as they related to having a valid 
approved limit and didnt agree it had breached any of the other terms and conditions.
It didnt understand why the suppliers in this case would dispute the payments and 
thought they were in clear breach of the contracts they had entered into. It thought they 
might have said there was a dispute in order to prevent payment under the policy being 
made and didnt feel there was any legitimate dispute in this case.
It questioned whether C was in fact a separate business to the one it had contracted with 
and said it had carried out reasonable checks on this company prior to doing business 
with them. And it thought Euler should in any case have carried out its own due diligence 
on this company prior to granting approval for them as an insured supplier and should 
have identified any fraudulent issues (if these existed).
It didnt think there was any dispute with S and queried why that claim hadnt been paid. 
It said it only cancelled the policy at the end of May 2022 because the claims it had 
made werent being paid and it thought this was a valid reason for doing so. It thought 
condition 8 of the policy allowed it do so. And, as its claims had been made prior to 
cancellation, they should still be considered by Euler
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Euler has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms policy. These say Euler will pay you up 
to the Insured Percentage of the Insured Debt that relates to a valid claim if your Insured 
Supplierfails to fulfil the terms of the Contract with respect to the delivery of goods and/or 
provision of services; and/or fails to repay you the value of the Insured Debt due to their 
Insolvency or Protracted Default 
But it goes on to say You are not covered for any Insured Debt or losses in any way caused 
bya Dispute. And the policy defines a dispute as any unresolved, genuine and 
documented disagreement between you and the Insured Supplier relating to any obligations 
owed by either you or the Insured Supplier under the Contract that results in refusal by the 
Insured Supplier to deliver goods and/or provide services to you.
So the issue here isnt whether the claim conditions relating to, for example, having an 
approved limit had been met. Its whether Euler acted reasonably in concluding there was a 
dispute (as defined by the policy) meaning these claims werent covered. 
M thinks the suppliers only suggested there was a dispute to avoid payment being made 
under the terms of the policy. But I can see when Euler contacted someone who said they 
were representing C it was told the shipment wouldnt be made until after the balance had 
been paid. And the payment terms said the balance should be paid after checking had taken 
place in an overseas warehouse (not after delivery to the UK). 
It commented without balance payment we cannot do anything or complete the shipment 
because we need the money to pay logistics and our suppliers. We are a trading company 
and not end manufacturers. That correspondence was shared with M at the time and 
Eulers collections team concluded legal action would be necessary to resolve the issue. 
When Euler contacted S it also claimed that under the terms of its contract with M a further £2,750 payment was required prior to the delivery of goods.  So both companies were 
arguing M hadnt met its contractual obligations. 
I appreciate M doesnt agree with those arguments but the test here is whether Euler acted 
reasonably in concluding there was a dispute. Given the arguments put forward by C and S I 
think it did. In fact M appeared to accept there was a dispute with C because in an email on 
22 April 2022 it said the debtor is disputing the outstanding debt and we are aware of it and 
due to this dispute only we have been obliged to raise our claim but only as a last resort. I 
think it was reasonable of Euler to conclude cover wouldnt be available for these claims 
unless those disputes were resolved in favour of M. 
In any event this isnt the key issue here because, although it continued to believe there was 
a dispute, Euler ultimately decided not to rely on this term to turn down the claims. It 
confirmed in response to the complaint M made it would make payment in order to resolve 
matters. But that was subject to the outstanding premiums for the policy being paid. 
The reason the claims werent then paid was because M didnt pay those amounts and says 
it wasnt required to. In fact M says it was entitled to cancel the policy (without paying further 
premium) because its claim hadnt been paid. And its referenced a condition of the policy 
which it says allows that. But that term doesnt appear in the policy; its in a separate 
document which relates to Eulers debt collection services. 
I appreciate M felt Euler wasnt fulfilling its responsibilities under the policy and thats what 
led it to stop paying the premiums. However, Ive already found that Euler acted correctly in 
telling M there was an ongoing dispute in relation to the claims it made and the policy 
wouldnt provide cover unless these were resolved in its favour. 
And the policy terms say at condition 5.3 You must pay the Advance Deposit Premiums 
specified in the Schedule together with any additional premium payable in accordance with 
Condition 5.4, within 14 days of the due dates specified. Your compliance with Condition 5.3 
is a condition precedent to our liability to you under the Policy for any benefits under the 
Policy
So its a requirement of the policy that premiums have been paid prior to benefit being 
provided. At the point Euler offered to pay these claims there was a significant amount of 
premiums that were due but remained unpaid. I think it was in line with the policy terms and 
fair of Euler to say it wouldnt be making payment until the issue with the unpaid premiums 
had been resolved.
I think it acted reasonably in then withdrawing that offer in relation to supplier C when new 
information about that business came to light as part of the legal proceedings that had been 
initiated. The policy says it covers an Insured Debt paid to an Insured Supplier. And the 
definition of an Insured Debt includes that it relates to goods and/or services which are due 
to be supplied to you within the maximum terms for delivery of goods and/or provision of 
services specified in the Approved Limit for that Insured Supplier
In this case Euler approved a limit of £50,000 in relation to C in February 2022. So its a debt 
with C that would be covered by the policy. However, that business doesnt supply the sort of 
goods M ordered and says it solely provides IT consulting services. It said a website which 
does list those goods and uses its postal address is fraudulent and has no connection to it. 
In addition Cs entry on Companies House doesnt include the individual listed on the 
website as is managing director. And C has provided a reference showing its reported this 
issue to ActionFraud and contact its had with HMRC about this matter. There are also other 
online reports of the website being fraudulent. I think Euler acted reasonably in concluding the contract M had must therefore have been 
with someone other than the business it had approved. I appreciate that business may have 
fraudulently misrepresented themselves to M as being C. But that doesnt change the fact 
the policy covers a debt to C and the available evidence doesnt show there is one.  
M argues Euler should have identified this issue when approving C. But it was only the direct 
contact that took place with C prior to legal action which established this. I dont think those 
are checks it would have been reasonable to expect Euler to perform when approving a 
credit limit under the policy. And in any event I dont think M could reasonably have regarded 
those checks as a substitute for its own responsibilities to establish it was contracting with a 
legitimate business. 
I appreciate the same issue doesnt apply to the debt with S. But, as Ive already explained, I 
think it was reasonable of Euler to say the issue of unpaid premiums would need to be 
resolved before any claim was paid. And the debt in this case is around £2,750 and the 
unpaid premiums on the policy are around £4,600. So even if Euler were to offset those 
premiums against the debt no claim would be payable in relation to this. 
In summary, I think Euler acted reasonably in concluding there did appear to be a dispute 
with both C and S meaning these claims werent covered by Ms policy. When it 
subsequently decided (as a gesture of goodwill) to pay those claims I think it was fair of it to 
say the issue of unpaid premiums would need to be resolved prior to it doing so. 
And I think it was fair of it to withdraw that offer in relation to the claim against C once it 
became apparent M hadnt contracted with C. And no payment would be due in relation to 
the claim relating to S because the unpaid premiums outweigh the amount that would be 
due. As Im satisfied on those points, Ive not needed to consider any other reasons Euler 
has given for declining the claims. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask M to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman