DRN-1908674
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC Bank Plc trading as First Direct (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In January 1997 Mr C applied for a credit card with HSBC. At the same time, he took out a 
PPI policy to protect his repayments. The credit card and PPI were both active from 
February 1997. 
Mr C had problems in making payments to the account from the end of 1999 and in March 
2003 HSBC closed the account on its system with a debt remaining on the account. The 
debt still owing on the account was sold to a third party in September 2007, after which date 
HSBC had no further legal interest in the account.
Mr C has now complained to HSBC that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree that was 
the case. 
HSBC has also considered if any excess commissions and profit share, which was part of 
the premiums, should be refunded to Mr C. It has now said it will repay any excess 
commission and profit share that may have been included in Mr Cs premiums.
As HSBC refused to uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, Mr C brought his 
concerns to this service. Mr C is represented by a third party. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has complained he was mis-sold the PPI as he says he wasnt made aware it was 
optional; he wasnt provided with information about how the cost would be paid and interest 
charged; and he wasnt given full information about the policy nor about different types of 
insurance from other providers. 
Mr C applied for his credit card by post. HSBC has been able to provide a copy of the actual 
application form Mr C completed and sent back, which was signed by him in January 1997. 
The credit card application form has been completed by hand by Mr C. On the form there is 
a section for the PPI. Mr C was offered the choice to tick a box saying he would like to take out the PPI or one saying he didnt want to take the cover. And Mr C has ticked the box to 
select to take out the PPI. 
I think the way the application form was set out did indicate to Mr C he had a choice whether 
or not to take out the PPI. This application took place over 20 years ago and memories can 
fade so Mr C may not fully recall what he actually completed at the time. But I think he knew 
he had a choice and he chose to take out the insurance cover.
The section about the PPI indicates it would provide help with repayments if Mr C was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, and it also provided life 
cover. The cost for every £100 of the credit card balance is also set out and when ticking the 
box to select to take out the PPI it is also states Mr C is giving authority for the charges to 
pay for the cover to be made to his credit card. This section also indicated there were 
eligibility criteria and terms and conditions that applied to the policy.
At the time Mr C met all the eligibility criteria, such as age and being in employment, so there 
was no issue with him having the policy. How the cost of the premiums will be calculated is 
indicated and as this was being added to the credit card balance Mr C should have known 
interest would be charged in the same way any other purchases would have incurred 
interest. And the cost of thepolicy was reasonable when considering the benefits that would 
have been paid. 
Full information about the terms and conditions may not have been totally clear when Mr C 
agreed to take out the PPI. So, I need to consider if I think he would still have chosen to take 
out the PPI at the time if he had known all the details.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr C would have been affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover as a result of restrictions in the terms and conditions. He was not 
suffering from any pre-existing medical conditions and had no unusual employment 
conditions. So knowing about the full terms and conditions and any restrictions on claims 
would not have affected Mr Cs decision to take out the PPI as he wasnt affected by them.
Mr C has told us he would have received some employment benefits if off sick, and he had 
no savings. The policy would have paid out in addition to any employment benefits so 
allowing any other income to be used for other household expenses. So the policy would 
have provided a useful benefit to Mr C if he had needed to claim.
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I think Mr C chose to take out the insurance and 
it would have provided a useful benefit if he had needed to claim. It follows that I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive also considered if any excess commission and profit share that would have been part of 
the PPI premiums would need to be refunded by HSBC. Originally HSBC said the credit 
arrangement wasnt caught by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct 
Authority relating to this. 
However, HSBC has since acknowledged that the credit agreement was still technically in 
place in 2007 when the debt was sold and it is uncertain when the credit may have actually 
ended. This means the credit is caught by the rules about unfair relationships and HSBC has 
agreed this is the case. 
Therefore, compensation to refund the excess commission, and any interest or charges 
caused by this being in the balance, and some compensatory interest, for any times Mr C 
may have been out of pocket, has to be paid. HSBC has indicated it will calculate and pay 
this compensation. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by HSBC Bank Plc trading as First Direct and it has been agreed that 
compensation for any excess commission will be calculated and refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman