DRN-4198905
The complaint
Mr R complains that Blueberry Wealth Limited (Blueberry) treated him unfairly when it 
transferred his Personal Pension Plan (PPP) to a different provider without speaking to him. 
He further complains that Blueberry Wealth Limited instructed the new PPP provider to 
switch his investments into cash without his authority.
In this complaint Mr R is represented by a third party, Mr A, whos previous employment 
meant he had some involvement in the events which led to this complaint.
What happened
Mr R had a PPP and wanted advice on how to access its benefits. He knew Mr A, and Mr A 
introduced Mr R to a pensions adviser at Blueberry.
On 14 September 2021 information about Mr Rs personal and financial circumstances was 
recorded by Blueberry. It was noted by Blueberry that Mr R said he was concerned about his 
life expectancy and wanted to draw all his money from his pension. It was also noted that 
this would be against Blueberrys advice and he may be an insistent client. 
Letters of authority for Blueberry to obtain information from Mr Rs pension providers were 
signed by Mr R on 15 September 2021.
Details of Mr Rs personal and financial circumstances, including the values of his two 
pensions, were formally documented by Blueberry on 23 September 2021. This showed, in 
summary:
He was 59 years old and married, with three non-dependent children.
He was in full-time employment.
He owned his own home outright.
He had a PPP worth £71,115 and a NEST occupational pension with a transfer value 
of £4,616.57.
He anticipated retiring at age 67.
His specific goals were described as:
Access pension flexibly to take maximum tax-free cash and a regular income at a 
level that can be altered at any time. [Mr R] wants to access his pot with no 
restrictions and does not require regular advice.
Continue investing for the medium to long term in funds suitable to attitude to risk. 
[Mr R] believes to be a medium risk taker.
On 11 October 2021 a formal suitability report was produced by Blueberry. This 
summarised:
 Mr R wished to take the maximum level of tax-free cash immediately from his 
pensions, and then to commence drawing an income of approximately £5,000 gross 
per year. This flexible drawdown arrangement was not possible with his current PPP 
provider.
 this course of action was against Blueberrys advice, and it was proceeding on an 
insistent client basis.
 Mr Rs risk profile (ATR) was 5  Low Medium Risk
In order for Mr R to achieve his objective, Blueberry recommended he transfer the full value 
of his PPP to a new provider, and to retain his NEST occupational pension and continue 
making his regular employee contributions into this. This would provide Mr R with 
£17,778.75 tax-free cash (based on the valuation at that time) and the ability to draw a 
flexible level of additional income as and when he wished, without the need for further 
advice.
This recommendation document was given to Mr R by Mr A. Along with this, Mr A gave Mr R 
the risk planner document and a client service agreement. All of these were signed by Mr R 
on 13 October 2021. Also on this date Mr R signed an insistent client declaration.
The application to transfer the PPP to the new provider was completed electronically by 
Blueberry on 14 October 2021. The ceding scheme wrote to Mr R on 19 October 2021 to 
confirm the transfer, and letters were sent to Mr R from the new provider on 25 October 
2021 and 29 October 2021 confirming his new pension account had been set up. Mr R had 
provided details of the bank account he wished the tax-free cash to be paid in to.
On 30 October 2022 Mr A, on Mr Rs behalf, emailed Blueberry with a complaint about the 
pension transfer. He said:
Your firm have completed a pension transfer without ever speaking to me. You have never 
attended my old house, nor have I been to your offices, or even spoken to a qualified 
pension advisor [sic]. Please can you confirm how this is even possible? I will give you 8 
weeks to reply.
On 2 November 2022 the complaint was also raised with our Service. 
As a result of contact from our Service, Blueberry wrote to Mr R on 24 November 2022 and 
explained it had not received his initial complaint. It asked him to clarify the nature of his 
complaint and provide evidence to support his position.
On 13 January 2023 Blueberry wrote to Mr R. It said it had concerns that given what it had 
been told by our Service, it thought that Mr Rs ATR was at odds with the advice it had given 
him in October 2021. Therefore it felt it was imperative it took steps to remedy Mr Rs current 
fund selection to mitigate any further risk until this could be clarified. In order to achieve this 
Blueberry said it would switch his fund to cash as an interim measure unless it was 
instructed not to by 18 January 2023. 
Mr A emailed Blueberry on 17 January 2023 telling them to have no further direct contact 
with Mr R and that he was his representative. He said any attempt to transfer Mr Rs funds 
would be reported to the police as fraud.
On 18 January 2023 Blueberry wrote to Mr R and informed him his pension had been moved 
into the providers cash fund.
Mr A complained to our Service that Blueberry had been making numerous calls to Mr R and 
even visited him at his home in order to persuade him to drop his complaint.Having considered all the evidence provided, our Investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint 
should be upheld. He thought that the evidence suggested that Blueberry had spoken to 
Mr R during the advice process, and that the transfer to the new provider was the only option 
Mr R had if he wished to access his pension funds. And although this was against its advice, 
Mr R signed the insistent client form for the transfer to proceed. And our Investigator 
considered what he thought Mr R would have most likely done if, as Mr A insisted, Blueberry 
had never actually spoken to Mr R. And having thought about everything, he concluded that 
he thought it likely that Mr R would have proceeded with the transfer anyway, as this was the 
only way he could access the value of his pension in the way he wanted to. So he didnt 
think Mr R had suffered a loss as a result of the transfer to the new provider.
Our Investigator also considered Mr Rs complaint that Blueberry had transferred his pension 
into the cash fund without his authority. Whilst acknowledging that this wasnt best practice, 
he thought it was done with the intention of protecting the value of Mr Rs pension, and was 
only intended to be an interim measure until his ATR could be reconsidered.
But Mr A, on Mr Rs behalf, didnt agree. He said Mr R had never been spoken to by a 
pensions adviser at Blueberry. He said Mr R was vulnerable and basically illiterate, and Mr A 
had completed the fact find document for Mr R without consulting him. He agreed that what 
was in the fact find was correct, but maintained this was proof that Blueberry had never 
spoken to Mr R. When our Investigator pointed out that Mr R had signed the various forms, 
Mr A said that hed been away on holiday when Mr R had signed them, and he had done so 
without understanding what hed signed.
Our Investigator reiterated that if there had been any procedural errors made by Blueberry, 
he thought they hadnt made any difference to the outcome, and Mr R would have gone 
ahead with the transfer anyway. Mr A said the fact he thought Blueberry had lied, and there 
had been procedural errors meant the complaint ought to be upheld.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements to this complaint. Although they are linked they have occurred at 
different times, so I will consider them separately. 
The transfer advice process.
The crux of Mr Rs initial complaint is that the transfer of his PPP to a new provider was 
actioned by Blueberry without it ever speaking to him. And the result of the transfer is that 
his PPP has lost a significant amount of value. But I agree with the Investigator in that this 
complaint should not be upheld. I think the evidence that I have means, on the balance of 
probability, it is more likely than not that Mr R was spoken to by Blueberry as part of the 
advice process. And I think he would have likely transferred his pension to the new provider 
irrespective of any advice he was or wasnt given by Blueberry. Ill explain why I think this.
Mr A has agreed that Mr R wanted advice regarding his pensions in late 2021, and he 
referred Mr R to Blueberry. But the reasons given to our Service for Mr R needing this advice 
differ between what has been said by Mr A, and what has been said by Blueberry. Mr A has 
asserted that Mr R wanted advice as his pension fund was insufficient to cover his future 
lifestyle. Blueberry has said Mr R was intent on taking the benefits from his PPP in the form 
of tax-free cash, and having the ability to withdraw ad hoc amounts to supplement his income, and he wasnt able to do that in his current arrangement. 
There is a clear difference of opinion here, so I need to decide, using all the evidence 
available to me, what I consider most likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities.  
Blueberry was Mr Rs paid financial adviser. Mr R sought professional advice from Blueberry 
in its role as a regulated financial adviser. As such Blueberry had certain professional 
responsibilities towards Mr R. These are spelled out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook. Most relevant to this complaint is COBS 2.1.1  A firm must act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Blueberry advised Mr R 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Blueberry, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile. 
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, 
Blueberry needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice 
met Mr Rs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
But I do not consider it necessary for Blueberry to have had a face-to-face meeting (either 
directly or by video etc) to have acted fairly here. Many transactions such as this are 
conducted remotely. But it was necessary for Blueberry to treat Mr R fairly. So I do think 
Blueberry needed to have satisfied itself that it was able to obtain all the necessary 
information to enable it to make a recommendation which was suitable in all the 
circumstances. 
Blueberry has said this fact find process was conducted over the telephone by its pensions 
adviser on the evening of 14 September 2021, and this call informed the full fact find 
document it produced on 23 September 2021. And Blueberry have provided handwritten 
notes which it says were made immediately following this call. Whilst I acknowledge these 
are undated and unsigned, I do find them persuasive evidence that a call with Mr R 
occurred. And during this call Mr Rs personal and financial circumstances were discussed, 
and his objectives noted. It was also noted that what Mr R wanted to achieve was going to 
be against Blueberrys advice, so I think it likely that this was also discussed, and Mr R was 
probably aware of this at this early stage.
Ive not seen any further evidence which leads me to believe Mr R met with, or spoke with 
anyone connected with Blueberry, other than Mr A, until after the transfer was completed. 
But I dont think this was necessary in these particular circumstances. I can see the formal 
recommendation document was informed by the fact find, along with the risk analysis 
document which Mr R had signed. And having considered the recommendation document 
closely, Im satisfied that it contains sufficient information to allow Mr R to make an informed 
choice as to what he wished to do. 
But Mr R was being treated as an insistent client, and from what Ive seen Im satisfied that 
Blueberry only facilitated the transfer once it was comfortable that Mr R was an insistent 
client. In fact, Blueberry explicitly told Mr R in several places within the suitability report, and 
as Ive said most likely in the initial telephone call one month earlier, that it didnt recommend 
the transfer as it didnt consider it to be in Mr Rs best interests. For example, one of the 
bullet points under the heading Goals and Objectives in the suitability report says the 
following:As taking money out of your pension is against what we would recommend, we have 
documented you as an insistent client and have requested you sign the relevant declarations 
to confirm you understand the risks involved.
And later under the heading Risk Profile is the bullet point:
Despite this [the warnings above] you are willing to take your tax-free lump sum and a level 
of income outside what is usually recommended. You understand the funds recommended 
are unlikely to perform better than the rate of income you receive but despite this you wish to 
proceed. You understand the risk that your pension may run out and your balance may be 
left at nil after so many years. Due to your desire to proceed anyway, we have documented 
you as an insistent client.
I consider it reasonable for Blueberry to recommend that Mr R didnt transfer as it didnt think 
his intention to withdraw lumpsums meant his fund was sustainable. And from what I have 
seen Blueberry had demonstrated to Mr R that his desired ad hoc lump sum withdrawals, on 
top of his 25% tax-free cash wasnt demonstrably viable in financial terms. And I consider 
this was made sufficiently clear to Mr R, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to conclude that 
Blueberry recommended the transfer.
But the FCA has also set out guidance for businesses on insistent clients in COBS. Whilst 
businesses are allowed to carry out business for insistent clients, they must ensure their 
client understands the consequences of going against the advice theyre given. Id usually 
expect to see a written acknowledgment from the consumer, in their own words, that the 
transfer isnt in accordance with the advisers recommendation and that its being carried out 
at their request.
Blueberry has shared a copy of Mr Rs signed declaration form. The form contained the 
following typed sentence (their emphasis): 
I wish to take my maximum pension commencement lump sum and setup a high level of 
regular income despite the affect this may have on my income available in retirement. I 
understand that my wishes to withdraw money are against the recommendations of my 
adviser; however, I still wish to continue against this as an insistent client. 
Based on the documentation Ive seen, Im satisfied that Blueberry made Mr R aware of the 
basis on which he would have to carry out the transfer. And, as I consider that the 
explanation was clear, both within the declaration and the suitability report, I cant 
reasonably agree that Mr D didnt understand what it meant. 
But the FCA guidance also said that the declaration ought to be in the consumers own 
words, and this appears to have been pre-written. And Im not convinced that Mr R would 
have used the type of words above. But because Im satisfied Mr R understood what it 
meant, I dont think this makes a significant difference here, as I think that Mr R would have 
most likely wished to proceed with the transfer anyway.
I say this because I can see from the recorded information in the fact find that Mr R had 
some concerns about his life expectancy  his father had died relatively young  so Mr R 
wished to access the money within his pension fund so that he could enjoy it while he could. 
And because of the way his existing PPP was set up, he was unable to make multiple 
withdrawals from it. The only way he could access the funds via a flexible drawdown method 
was to transfer to a provider which would facilitate this. 
Blueberry was required to ensure it treated Mr R fairly. And as Ive said above, Im satisfied 
that it did. It was clear in setting out that it did not consider what Mr R wanted to do was suitable and it explained why, along with the possible ramifications of his proposed course of 
action. And it made clear that it would only proceed with facilitating the transfer on an 
insistent client basis. And whilst I can see Blueberry didnt follow the Regulators guidance 
to the letter, Im satisfied that even if it had, Mr R would have wanted to transfer anyway. 
And the PPP that Blueberry recommended, and the associated fund choice were suitable 
and matched his objectives and ATR.
The instruction to switch the investments into cash.
Mr Rs pension fund investments were switched into the cash fund on 18 January 2023 as a 
result of an instruction given by Blueberry to the PPP provider. Mr A, on Mr Rs behalf, says 
this was done without Mr Rs authority and the funds should have remained invested. He 
says that Blueberry should redress any investment loss which occurred as a result of this 
unauthorised switch.
Blueberry has said that as a result of the complaint that was made to our Service, it was 
concerned that Mr Rs attitude to investment risk had changed, and that it was necessary to 
protect his investment prior to being able to reassess his ATR. It said it visited Mr R at his 
home address on 13 January 2023 and hand delivered a letter explaining its intended course 
of action. And it says it followed this up with a telephone call to Mr R later that evening, and 
during this call Mr R said he was happy for Blueberry to proceed. But he didnt return the 
written authority Blueberry had left for him, and Blueberry was unable to reach him again on 
the phone. 
Mr A, on Mr Rs behalf, says these calls and visit were unwanted and amounted to 
harassment, and were intended to persuade Mr R to withdraw his complaint. So again, there 
is a difference in the testimony provided. 
Although there are no recordings or call notes of any of these calls, I have seen copies of the 
letters. And these letters make reference to a conversation which appears to have taken 
place between Mr R and Blueberry. So on the balance of probability, I think it more likely that 
not that this call took place and discussed the proposed switch to the cash fund. But Mr R 
didnt return the written authority, so I need to decide if Blueberry acted fairly in proceeding 
with the switch, and whether it should be held responsible for any investment losses which 
resulted from it. 
Although I dont think Blueberry followed best practice, I think it most likely acted in a 
reasonable attempt to protect Mr Rs pension fund. And the switch to cash was only intended 
to be a short-term measure until his ATR could be reassessed. 
It is also clear that both Mr A and Mr R knew that the switch to cash had occurred, and Mr A 
says this was contrary to Mr Rs wishes. But this switch could have been immediately 
reversed by either Mr R or Mr A, by contacting Mr Rs PPP provider and asking them to do it. 
So I cant fairly hold Blueberry responsible for any losses suffered by Mr Rs pension fund 
through not being invested, when these could have been easily and quickly mitigated by 
Mr R, especially as Ive seen Mr A was already in contact with the PPP provider at the time.  
As a result of all of the above I do not agree that Blueberry has treated Mr R unfairly. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman