DRN-3026171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) rejected their claim under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a timeshare purchase. Mr and 
Mrs E were initially represented by a claims management company (CMC), but it is no 
longer acting on their behalf.
What happened
In December 2011 Mr and Mrs E purchased a timeshare product from a company I will call C 
and paid £12,974. This was funded by a loan from FHF. The purchase came about when 
they took a free holiday and agreed to attend a presentation. 
In November 2018 the CMC made a claim for a refund from FHF. It raised a number of 
reasons why it considered their clients claim succeeded. In summary it said that:
Mr and Mrs E had been unduly pressurised and not given time to think about it.
They were led to believe it was an investment.
They were told they could book anywhere.
They believed the contract was in perpetuity.
Insufficient credit checks were carried out.
Maintenance payments have increased 
FHF rejected the claim and said the product was not a long term holiday product as defined 
by Timeshare Regulations. It said they had 14 days in which they could have withdrawn and 
pointed out that the contract was not in perpetuity. It disagreed that undue pressure had 
been applied. It said the contract had been clear and concise and they had been taken 
through it by a compliance officer. It also said that proper affordability checks had been 
carried out.
The CMC on behalf of Mr and Mrs E brought a complaint to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that the claim had 
been made out of time apart from the claim made under s 140A. However, he didnt consider 
there was evidence of an unfair relationship. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree and said that they had been told that the loan from FHF could be 
replaced by a loan from another provider at a lower interest rate. However, they had tried 
three lenders none of whom would grant a loan. They had been left with a high interest loan. 
They added that they had not been able to terminate the agreement with C. They had 
continued to pay off the loan despite C going into liquidation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
S 56 and 140A
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr and Mrs E and C are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent for 
FHF. This includes any representations made by C and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
Time Limits 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to a 
contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into that contract. Mr and Mrs E 
have set out the various claims made to them which led them to agree to buy the product. 
They were all made on or before December 2011, so that is the date on which any cause of 
action arose.
The Limitation Act applies in a similar way to claims for breach of contract. On the face of it, 
the claims which the CMC raised are claims that matters were misrepresented, rather than 
being claims for breach of contract. It is likely however that any breach that may be alleged 
occurred many years ago.
I have seen no evidence of any claim being made until Mr and Mrs E contacted FHF via the 
CMC in November 2018, some eight years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court 
would conclude that any claim was made outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. It 
follows in my view that it was reasonable for FHF to decline to consider the 
misrepresentation and breach of contract claims under section 75 and the claims under 
section 56.
Section 104A and 104B claimsUnder section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Under the Limitation Act 2010 the usual time limit for bringing a claim of this nature is six 
years from the date on which the credit relationship ended. The loan remains open and the 
claim to FHF was made in November 2018 so it falls within the six-year limit. That means I 
have to consider if the relationship was unfair to Mr and Mrs E.
S 140A Unfair Relationship
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by C. I do not consider it likely that court would conclude that Cs actions 
as an agent of FHF generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E recall they were pressurised into taking out the agreement. I can 
understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these sales meetings 
ran on for many hours and the representatives of C would highlight the benefits of the 
product.
However, this service has learned that if a consumer said they did not want to purchase on 
the day, that representatives staff were instructed to take them back to their accommodation 
and the sales meeting would end. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have 
made saying no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the 
offer.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs E were unreasonably 
pressurised to sign the agreement. 
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I believe Mr and Mrs E were aware they were buying a timeshare product with C. The 
paperwork set out the length of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that 
it was subject to availability and should not be viewed as a financial investment.
I believe C supplied brochures that covered this information. So, while the sales meeting 
mayve been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a timeshare could 
provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what Mr and Mrs E thought they were 
acquiring and what they  actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to 
an unfair relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. My 
understanding that commission would have been paid, but based on the typical rates I have 
seen, I think its unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this 
case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
On balance I am not presided there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a 
court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
Affordability
Mr and Mrs E suggest that FHF failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to them. FHF has told this service it carried out the appropriate checks required at that time. 
Even if I were to conclude that  FHF or its agents didnt carry out the proper checks for 
creditworthiness and affordability when arranging a loan for Mr and Mrs E, I would still need 
to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for them and/or that they lost out as a result, 
in order to uphold this part of their complaint. I am aware they are continuing to make the 
payments and I have seen no evidence that would allow me to conclude the loan was no 
affordable.
I have also noted that they say they were misled in that they were told they could replace the 
loan with a less expensive one. In my experience of the timeshare finance market it was the 
norm that such loans were paid off within few months and alternative finance obtained. As 
such I cannot say that the suggestion the loan could be replaced was unreasonable. I do not 
consider I can conclude that any such suggestion can be regarded as misrepresentation. 
Nor is it in my power to require FHF to reduce the interest rate it is charging. As for C going 
into liquidation this is not a matter which has been put to FHF and so I cannot consider it.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs E, but while I have 
every sympathy with their situation I cannot uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman