DRN-3303229
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked its account, and this led to 
it losing business.
What happened
The director of K says she found out on 6 August 2021 that the company account had been 
blocked since 29 July 2021. She was asked to show that K was entitled to a credit for £800 
that had been reported as a scam. She explains she went to a branch on 9 August 2021 to 
do so and the account wasnt operating again until 11 August 2021. K was unable to pay for 
the costs of getting an item ready for sale and it lost commission.
HSBC said it hadnt made a mistake and was complying with statutory requirements. It had 
attempted to call K and had then sent it a letter on 29 August 2021 about this. It had acted 
on a report about a payment obtained fraudulently. And when K had shown that this was a 
civil dispute it had removed the restriction. It stated it had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that we arent the 
regulator and we dont set business processes. HSBC had taken the report of a scam at face 
value. And he thought it had acted in line with what would be expected of a financial 
institution to limit access to the funds. It had followed its process and so he didnt think it had 
acted unfairly. HSBC had noted that it had attempted to call K and provided a copy of a letter 
which he knew K said it didnt receive. But he thought HSBC had made reasonable attempts 
to contact it. 
HSBC had said in the final response that the account was restricted for debits and credits. 
But it had allowed credits and also charges. He didnt think that this inconsistency was 
detrimental for K. And he knew K expected the account to be unblocked by 10 August 2021 
at the latest. But he didnt think at 48-hour turnaround from when it had provided information 
about the credit to be unreasonable.
K didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. HSBCs actions had put great 
pressure on the business. At most it should have put a hold on the £800. But it had deprived 
it of access to all the money in the account and affected its trading ability. The sale of the 
item had fallen through, and it was still unsold, and it hadnt received any commission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC received a report that money taken by K had been part of a scam. This had been 
reported through the bank of the person paying the money. HSBC took this seriously and 
wanted to speak to K to ensure it was entitled to the funds and hadnt been trading in this 
way.
Im satisfied it took steps to contact K. And I have seen the letter which was sent. I dont 
know why that didnt get to K, but I think HSBC could think it had. Although it had some 
problems making some online purchases before 6 August 2021 it hasnt mentioned any 
other business impact before then. HSBC had made a note that it intended to restrict debits 
apart from charges. And so, credits were allowed into the account. 
I understand from Ks evidence that the director tried to take out cash at 14:42 on 6 August 
2021. And was told to contact the bank. HSBC wanted a face to face discussion and she 
wasnt able to go to a branch until 9 August 2021. Ive seen the sales invoice for the item 
which said that some work was required by 8 August 2021. I understand from what K says 
that no other means of paying for this was possible to mitigate what happened and so the 
sale didnt go through as planned. The item is still available for sale.
Our investigator has already explained our role. We provide informal dispute resolution. I 
need to consider whether HSBC acted reasonably. I dont see it acted outside its policy and I 
would expect it to take appropriate action on a report of this nature. So, I dont have a basis 
to find as the director wants that this should have been limited to the funds in dispute. Ive 
set out the timeline of what happened. And it was unfortunate that the letter didnt get to K 
and that the director found out what happened on a Friday afternoon and wasnt able to get 
to a branch until the following Monday. When HSBC did have the information, it removed the 
block and I dont consider this took an unreasonable period.
I appreciate the impact on K which it seems really arose out of a dispute with a customer, 
but which HSBC had to deal with as reported to it. HSBC followed its process. I know the 
director of K will remain very disappointed at the impact on K, but I dont have a basis to find 
that this arose from any mistake or unreasonable action by HSBC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman