DRN-4374771
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) dealt with his 
claim.
What happened
Mr M has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. 
He called AXA following an online GP consultation where a referral to a physiotherapist was 
made. When Mr M called AXA it couldnt find him or details of the GP referral on the system. 
Mr M had to chase, hold and wait days for a reply. Mr M had to ask his HR department to 
intervene, and he complained. 
Mr M says he was left in pain and without treatment for a week. 
AXA accepts it made a mistake and apologised for the delay in locating his details and the 
referral. It also offered to pay his £100 excess as compensation. Unhappy, Mr M referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that the offer of paying the £100 excess 
was reasonable. 
Mr M disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs offer to pay the £100 excess is fair. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
AXA accepts that it delayed in authorising treatment due to an error which meant his 
claim was processed 5-6 days later than it should have been. Initially AXA 
apologised for the error and later, it offered to refund his excess of £100 (or pay the 
specialist directly if the excess hadnt been paid).
My decision will focus on whether I think AXAs offer to pay the £100 excess is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. I should also say I have read and carefully 
considered everything Mr M has said but I will only address what I consider to be key 
to my decision.
Mr M doesnt think £100 is enough as he was in pain for a week and had to chase 
numerous times. He says the proposed outcome isnt sufficiently hard on AXA and it 
will keep on failing customers. He says his case should set an example. He also says 
the consequences of the delay are yet to be assessed from a medical perspective. 
As he couldnt start his treatment immediately, he was left suffering unnecessarily 
and had to rely on strong painkillers. 
Firstly, it isnt my role to punish AXA. Instead, it is my role to consider the specific 
circumstances of Mr Ms case and decide what a fair and reasonable outcome would 
be. Similarly, our decisions do not set a precedent as each case is assessed on its 
own facts. 
Turning to the error made by AXA, I have considered what should have happened. 
AXA should have dealt with Mr Ms referral to see a physiotherapist as soon as he 
called but instead, he had to call, chase and wait a week for matters to be resolved. 
Im pleased to see AXA accepted and apologised for its error and for the chasing Mr 
M had to do. It also offered to pay the £100 excess as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr M. As the issue with the referral was resolved after 
a week, it wasnt long lasting and so I think £100 is appropriate, taking into 
consideration the length of time. 
Turning now to Mr Ms pain, this isnt something AXA is responsible for. The delay in 
accessing physiotherapy is what AXA is responsible for. Mr M says he attended A&E 
for strong painkillers but he wanted to avoid this and see a physiotherapist 
immediately. As Mr M always had the option of seeing a doctor for strong painkillers, 
this isnt something I think AXA are responsible for. Mr M chose not to obtain strong 
painkillers immediately. The physiotherapist wouldnt have been able to provide the 
painkillers in any event. So overall, although I am sorry to hear of Mr Ms situation, I 
dont hold AXA responsible for his pain.
Mr M says the consequences of the delay from a medical perspective are yet to be 
assessed. But as the referral was for physiotherapy, for which there is often a wait, I 
cant see what the other consequences of the delay would be. Mr M has already 
confirmed he obtained strong painkillers and AXA resolved the referral after a week. I 
dont think there is any further consequence to consider and I havent seen any 
medical evidence to suggest otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think AXAs offer to pay the £100 is fair. So I direct AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited to provide a refund of £100 to Mr M if he has already paid the 
excess, or pay the specialist directly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman