DRN-3692640
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society will not refund money he says he lost to an 
investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the key reasons for my decision. This is not a 
discourtesy to Mr M or Nationwide  it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
 Its common ground that Mr M authorised the disputed payments made to FXBFI 
Broker Financial Invest Ltd (trading as 101Investing.com) using both his Nationwide 
debit card and credit card. The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by Nationwide, and the starting position is that banks 
and building societies ought to follow the instructions given by customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
 Still, Ive considered whether there was any obligation on Nationwide to have 
prevented Mr M from making the payments to this merchant. However, Im not 
satisfied there was. At the time he made the payments in January and February 
2021, FXBFI was regulated in Cyprus and had permissions to operate in the United 
Kingdom by the domestic regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, there 
was nothing to suggest that Mr M was paying a scammer at the time rather than 
placing an investment with a legitimate offshore broker dealing in high risk trades.
 I appreciate those permissions have since been withdrawn by the FCA in April 2021. 
But, crucially, this was after Mr M made the payments in question. So, even if there 
was any reason for Nationwide to have stepped in and prevented any or all of the 
payments when they were instructed, Im not persuaded that any questioning or 
discussion about the purpose of the payments would have likely resulted in Mr M 
concluding that he was falling victim to a scam. At the time of payment, he would
have only found that the merchant was an offshore broker that had temporary 
permissions to operate in the United Kingdom. Indeed, Mr M has said that FXBFI 
made him aware of its UK authorisation and he took confidence from this. 
 Nationwide has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So, given the circumstances here, I do not consider that 
Nationwide was under any obligation to prevent the payments from being made. And 
besides that, even if Nationwide had intervened with any of the payments and asked 
reasonably probing questions, Im not convinced this would have led to the payments 
being averted anyway. 
 Ive also considered whether Nationwide dealt with Mr Ms chargeback claim fairly, as 
there are some circumstances where funds can be recovered via a dispute raised 
with the merchant. Although I recognise Mr M may disagree, I find that the evidence 
he has submitted doesnt require Nationwide to take the matter further. As I see it, 
Nationwide presented the claim to Visa, and received a decline based on the defence 
received by FXBFI. And according to the chargeback rules, Im not convinced 
Nationwide ought to have pursued the dispute beyond what it did. 
 For example, one of the ways in which a successful claim can be made at Visas final 
stage at arbitration (under reason code 13.3 Not as Described) is for Nationwide to 
have been provided evidence that FXBFI made written representations to Mr M 
guaranteeing an amount of profit/return that he would receive. This service has given 
Mr M ample opportunity to submit such evidence, which I understand he does not 
have. Instead, what I have seen is an email from an agent of FXBFI talking generally 
about a type of strategy that could be employed  which is not the same as 
guaranteeing that Mr M would make a profit if he made a particular trade, investment 
etc. 
 Nationwide was able to recover a £500 payment Mr M made to FXBFI from his credit 
card. As far as I am reasonably aware, this was managed through the merchant not 
defending the dispute  meaning the claim was successful. As explained, the other 
transactions were defended with evidence. I have to work on the basis of what I find 
fair and reasonable, pursuant to industry standards and what I find good practice. 
Whilst I can see why Mr M may argue that Nationwide ought to have been able to 
return all of the payments if one was recouped, on account of the evidence, Im afraid 
I do not agree; Nationwide received a decline from Visa and was not unreasonable in 
taking the dispute no further for the other transactions. 
 Finally, notwithstanding the chargeback claim, Nationwide has confirmed that Mr M 
can raise a separate recovery claim for the credit card payments. This is under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Given the stage this claim is at between the 
parties, I find it appropriate not to include it as part of this complaint. Accordingly, all I 
will add is that Mr M can pursue the Section 75 claim aside from this complaint, and 
his rights to this remain intact whether he accepts my final decision on this case or 
not. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear about the 
loss hes incurred. However, Im not persuaded that Nationwide can fairly or reasonably be 
held liable for that loss  so I will not be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman