DRN-1115413
The complaint
Mrs G complains that when she applied for a mortgage, National Westminster Bank Plc 
incorrectly told her that she had an undeclared loan recorded. She was also unhappy that 
her self-employed income wasn't taken into account.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs G applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with NatWest. The application was 
originally declined on the basis that she failed to declare a car loan taken earlier that month. 
She spoke to an underwriter who confirmed the same thing. Mrs G had no knowledge of this 
loan, so she contacted the police and a credit reference agency to report fraud. Mrs G 
explained this caused her a great deal of stress and anxiety. She complains that 
NatWest made her feel like a liar for not disclosing the loan.
The credit reference agency couldn't see the loan NatWest was referring to, so Mrs G 
discussed this again with NatWest and it said that her credit file was incorrectly read by the 
members of staff. The loan had been applied for a few years before, but the entry was 
recently updated by the finance provider. NatWest misread the entry as a new loan 
application. Mrs Gs mortgage application was later declined on the basis that she failed a 
credit check for different reasons.
NatWest acknowledged it made a mistake about the undeclared loan and offered Mrs G 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs G also complained that NatWest declined to take her self-employed income into account 
on application. NatWest did not uphold this part of Mrs G's complaint. 
Mrs G was not satisfied with NatWests response, so she brought her complaint to our 
service. It was clear throughout her complaint that her main concern was that the £200 
offered did not sufficiently compensate for the error caused. She asked us to look into why 
NatWest refused to take her self-employed income into account, but made it clear this wasn't 
her main concern.
An investigator looked into things and didn't uphold Mrs G's complaint. He felt that NatWests 
offer for its mistake was fair and reasonable. He didn't think it did anything wrong when 
deciding not to consider Mrs G's self-employed income. 
Mrs G replied to say that she still did not agree the compensation amount of £200 was 
sufficient. Mrs G has confirmed that she accepts the investigator's opinion on the use of the 
self-employed income. So my decision doesn't further cover this point.  
Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. NatWest has admitted it got things 
wrong. So the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things 
right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that NatWest should compensate Mrs G for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its actions. However, I also think its important to explain that, as a service, our 
awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful 
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award 
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
In the circumstances of this case, I can completely understand why hearing about a loan that 
Mrs G had no knowledge of caused her to worry. It's understandably a concern to think you 
could potentially be a victim of identity fraud and have a sizeable loan for a car taken in your 
name. But, I also need to consider how soon it was before Mrs G learned of the mistake and 
whether the compensation NatWest has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs G has told us that she promptly contacted the police and the credit reference agency 
who was able to confirm the loan wasn't showing on her credit file. NatWests contact notes 
also show it confirmed its mistake to Mrs G the next day. So, Im glad to hear her mind was 
put at ease soon after. This doesnt take away from the fact that the mistake occurred in the 
first place and Ive noted all the things Mrs G has said about how this mistake has impacted 
her. But when considering everything, I think the compensation of £200 that has been 
offered to Mrs G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I understand 
NatWest has already paid £200 to Mrs G, so I won't be asking it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman