DRN-3459633
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about their contents insurance provider, Covea Insurance plc 
(Covea). Their complaint is about damage caused at their property by a plumber attending to 
fix a leak. 
References to Covea include their agents who provided the plumbing service.
This decision covers Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about Covea, as the insurer of their 
contents insurance policy. It doesnt cover the separate insurer that provided the buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr W and Mrs W noticed a leak in their property and contacted Coveas out-of-
hours team. Covea arranged for a plumber to visit, who attended later the same day. Mr W 
and Mrs W said the leak was coming from the bathroom upstairs, but the plumber couldnt 
locate the source of the leak, despite making a hole in the ceiling. The plumber was 
eventually able to locate the leak from under the tiles in the bathroom and fixed it. Mr W and 
Mrs W paid £296 for the work, thinking theyd be able to reclaim the cost from Covea.
Mr W and Mrs W werent happy with the damage caused by the plumber in tracing the leak, 
or the repairs carried out, so complained to Covea. But Covea said they only provided 
contents insurance under the policy, so theyd made a mistake when they sent the plumber. 
Mr W and Mrs W then contacted their buildings insurance insurer, who accepted their claim 
and arranged for the damage to be repaired. But Mr W and Mrs W had to pay a policy 
excess of £350. 
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr W and Mrs W complained to Covea again. They said 
Covea shouldnt have sent the plumber to repair the leak, and they were unhappy at the 
plumbers manner as well as the damage caused.
Covea upheld their complaint in part. In their final response, they acknowledged they should 
have realised Mr W and Mrs W only had contents insurance, so should have referred them 
to their buildings insurer. Covea removed record of the claim theyd registered (as no 
contents were damaged in the incident). They also sent a small gift. Regarding the quality of 
the plumbers work, Covea didnt uphold that aspect of the complaint. They said the work 
was complex and access needed both through the ceiling and the bathroom floor. The 
plumber sought Mr W and Mrs Ws agreement to do so. The difficulty of the repair meant the 
plumber attended for longer than the length of time billed for.
Mr W and Mrs W then complained to this service, unhappy at what had happened. They said 
Coveas plumber had caused significant damage in tracing and accessing the leak. They 
wanted reimbursing for the cost of the plumber (£296), the excess theyd paid on the claim 
under their buildings insurance, as well as compensation for the inconvenience suffered.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Covea hadnt acted fairly. As Covea 
accepted it shouldnt have sent the plumber, the investigator looked at what was likely to 
have happened had Covea not sent the plumber. He thought it likely Mr W and Mrs W would 
have contacted their buildings insurance provider, who would have sent a plumber. In that 
scenario, he thought it likely Mr W and Mrs W would still have had to claim for the cost of 
repairing the damage, both from the leak and from the work necessary for trace and access 
and to fix it. That was likely to have exceeded the policy excess of £350, so theyd have paid 
it in any event. But they wouldnt have had to pay for the plumber, so the investigator thought 
Covea should reimburse that cost. Given the inconvenience theyd suffered while waiting for 
repairs to be carried out and having to deal with different companies, the investigator thought 
Covea should pay £300 compensation to Mr W and Mrs W.
Covea disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. While they accepted responsibility for reimbursing the cost of the plumber, 
they didnt think they should also have to pay £300 in compensation. They said industry 
practice would have meant Mr W and Mrs W engaging a plumber themselves and bearing 
the cost (even through their buildings insurer). In sending a plumber when the contents 
policy didnt provide that cover, Covea said theyd done something they werent obliged to 
do. They also felt the inconvenience of having to deal with different companies wasnt due to 
them, as the policy broker was responsible for selecting the insurer for each element of the 
policy. Covea also said theyd deleted the claim from the Claims Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database, to mitigate any increase in policy premium (as no contents were damaged). 
Together with the small gift, they didnt think the £300 additional compensation was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Covea have acted fairly towards Mr W and Mrs W.
In considering Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint, Ive considered the three main elements theyve 
raised. The first is the cost of the plumber that Covea arranged when the leak was reported. 
The second is the excess Mr W and Mrs W incurred when they claimed for the cost of 
repairing the damage from the leak (and the plumbers work to trace and access the leak). 
The third issue  and the main reason Covea disagreed with our investigators view - is 
compensation for inconvenience suffered by Mr W and Mrs W.
On the first issue, Ive noted Covea accepted our investigators view they should reimburse 
Mr W and Mrs W the £296 they paid the plumber to trace and fix the leak. I think Covea have 
acted fairly and reasonably in accepting theyll cover the cost. Its true they arranged for a 
plumber even though Mr W and Mrs W only had contents insurance with them  so to that 
extent it was a mistake. Listening to the call recording when Mr W and Mrs W first reported 
the leak to Covea, they say they have contents insurance. Given that, its not clear why 
Covea agreed to arrange for a plumber to attend, particularly as Mr W and Mrs W confirm 
they dont have home emergency cover. Its also made clear the plumber would be provided 
on a pay and claim basis. That is, Mr W and Mrs W would have to pay the cost and then 
seek to reclaim it. While Covea accept they mistakenly arranged for the plumber to attend, 
as they did, I think its fair they should pay for the cost (and have accepted that).
The second issue concerns the £350 policy excess Mr W and Mrs W had to pay (under their 
buildings insurance policy) for the cost of repairing the damage. Mr W and Mrs W argue they 
shouldnt have to pay the excess, as they wouldnt have had to make a claim had the 
plumber not caused damage when tracing and fixing the leak.
Having considered this issue, I dont agree. The buildings insurance policy would have 
covered the cost of the damage from the leak itself, as an escape of water claim. But the 
policy document Ive seen states that it will cover:4. Trace and access
We will pay the costsfor locating the source of water or oil damage including the 
reinstatement of any wall, flooring or ceiling removed or damaged during the search 
and the repair of any leaking water or oil pipes.
I think this makes it clear the cost of reinstatement would be covered under the buildings 
section of the policy (though its not clear whether the actual repair itself  as opposed to the 
trace and access needed to enable the repair to be carried out  would be covered). My 
understanding is this is whats happened. That being the case, Mr W and Mrs W would 
always have had to pay the appropriate policy excess applicable under any claim. The same 
would have been true had they engaged their own plumber (or one engaged by the buildings 
insurer, had that been the case). As the buildings section of the policy isnt provided by 
Covea, then it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask them to reimburse Mr W and Mrs W for 
the excess theyd have had to pay in any event.
The final issue is that of compensation. Mr W and Mrs W maintain the plumber caused 
significant damage in tracing and accessing the leak (then repairing it). They are also 
unhappy at the quality of the work carried out and the attitude of the plumber. Covea 
maintain the repair was complex and they didnt charge for all the time taken to locate and 
then repair the leak. They also say they dont have any concerns over the quality of the work 
(or the professional ability of the plumber).
 
Ive considered both views carefully. Mr W and Mrs W have provided a detailed account of 
what happened during the plumbers visit, including how the work was carried out and the 
length of time it took. From what Covea have said (when responding specifically on Mr W 
and Mrs Ws concerns about the quality of work) this seems to me to be a more general view 
of the plumbers experience and lack of previous concerns. Ive also considered that the 
nature of leaks is such that it isnt always clear what the source may be (in the initial call to 
Covea Mr W and Mrs W say it could be from a radiator pipe or from the toilet) and therefore 
what the best way of tracing and accessing the leak may be. Ive also noted what Covea 
said about the nature of the repair carried out. 
In terms of the delays to the repair of the damage (both from the leak itself and the trace and 
access work to locate and then fix it) Ive noted the buildings insurer sent a surveyor to 
inspect the property a few days after the leak. The surveyor then asked for two quotes to be 
obtained (one Ive seen is dated two weeks after the leak). Given this, I dont think its fair to 
attribute subsequent delays to Covea. The policy held by Mr W and Mrs W had separate 
insurers for the buildings section and the contents section, but thats not Coveas 
responsibility (it may reflect the property being in shared ownership). 
Taking all these factors into account, I do think Mr W and Mrs W suffered some distress and 
inconvenience from the incident and what happened. Ive also noted some subsequent 
comment from the contractors who completed the reinstatement work about the quality of 
the repair carried out by the plumber. However, given what Ive said about Covea acting 
fairly in agreeing to reimburse the cost of the plumber and that they cant fairly be held 
responsible for subsequent delays (or for Mr W and Mrs W having to deal with different 
insurers) I think £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint 
in part. I require Covea Insurance plc to:Reimburse Mr W and Mrs W £296 for the cost of the plumber (if they havent already 
reimbursed them).
pay Mr W and Mrs W £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr W and Mrs W accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman