DRN-3794498
The complaint
Mr H complains about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and their decision to decline the claim 
he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H held a home insurance policy that was underwritten by EIL. This policy provided cover 
for the contents of his home.
In early March 2022, Mr H contacted EIL to make a claim on his policy, after damaging his 
laptop. EIL arranged for the laptop to be inspected by a third-party company as part of the 
claim, who Ill refer to as B. 
B inspected the laptop and decided it was beyond economical repair (BER). So, they 
provided a value for the laptop of £1,924.98. And they advised they had been unable to find 
a suitable replacement for less than £1,500.
After considering this information, EIL decided to decline the claim. They explained Mr H had 
failed to specify the laptop as a High-Risk Item, as he should have done due to its value. So, 
they explained the maximum they would pay to replace his laptop would be £1,500. And as a 
suitable replacement of a similar specification couldnt be found for less than this amount, 
they declined the claim and didnt offer Mr H anything more. Mr H was unhappy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Mr H didnt think EILs decision to decline his claim was fair. He didnt think hed done 
anything wrong when not specifying the laptop, as he didnt think it was worth more than 
£1,500 when he took out the policy due to its age. So, he didnt think EIL acted reasonably 
when deciding to decline the claim on the basis that a replacement couldnt be found for less 
than the £1,500 limit on the policy for unspecified items. So, he wanted EIL to provide him 
with a cash settlement, stating Bs suggestion put to him of £1449.99.
EIL didnt agree. They thought theyd acted within the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining the claim. And they maintained their view that Mr H had failed to specify the 
laptop as a High-Risk Item when he shouldve done. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They accepted that EIL acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim. But they explained our 
service must also be satisfied it was fair for EIL to do so. And they didnt think it was. They 
didnt think EIL had acted fairly by relying on a more expensive model to consider the 
replacement costs, when Mr Hs laptop was significantly older and had since been 
discontinued. Our investigator thought EIL couldve offered Mr H the chance of a cheaper 
alternative that wouldve fallen under the £1,500 limit, as EIL themselves admitted they 
wouldve provided a replacement had one been found and agreed. So, our investigator 
thought EIL should either provide Mr H with an agreeable replacement worth below the 
£1,500 limit or offer Mr H a cash settlement to the same value, less any excess if this isnt 
possible.
Mr H agreed with this recommendation. But EIL didnt. They thought theyd considered the 
replacement based on a reasonable like for like basis, relating to the laptop screen size. And 
that all of these models were worth more than the £1,500 limit. So, they thought they had 
acted fairly, taking the same decision they wouldve done with any other customer at the 
time. So, they maintained their view that they shouldnt be required to do, or offer, anything 
more. As EIL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I think it would be useful for me to explain exactly how Ive considered the complaint. 
When thinking about EILs decision to decline the claim, I need to be satisfied they acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held.
In this situation, its not disputed that Mr H didnt specify the laptop as High-Risk. While I 
appreciate why Mr H didnt, as he considered what it was worth in his mind considering its 
age etc, I must also consider the fact the laptop cost Mr H around £2,500 when he bought it. 
And it was valued by B at just under £2,000. So, I think it shouldve been specified, and it 
wasnt.
And Ive seen the policy terms and conditions, which explains We will not pay under any 
section of the Policy for any single item valued at £1,500 or more that has not been listed as 
a Specified Item. So, as the laptop was valued at more than this amount and was not 
specified, I think EIL did act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining 
it.
But crucially, I must also be satisfied that EIL were fair to do so, in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Hs claim. And in this situation, I dont think they were.
EIL have confirmed to our service that, had they been able to replace Mr Hs laptop for under 
£1,500, they wouldve done so, regardless of the term Ive quoted above. But EIL have said 
they were unable to replace Mr Hs laptop for a similar specification under this price and so, 
this is why theyve relied on that term.
But I dont think EIL were able to fairly replace Mr Hs laptop like for like, due to the age of 
the laptop and the likely advances in specification over the 10 years he had it. So, while I 
understand why EIL chose to look at replacements using the same inch screen, I think they 
couldve considered looking at replacements of a lesser specification, or smaller screen, that 
may have fallen under the £1,500 limit the policy set for claims on unspecified items. 
And even if this replacement wasnt available, by EIL confirming they wouldve replaced Mr 
Hs laptop despite the exclusion theyve relied upon, then I think they were always willing to 
provide Mr H with a settlement worth up to £1,500. So, where a replacement wasnt 
available, I think Mr H shouldve been given the opportunity to choose a lesser specification 
with his agreement or, receive a cash settlement to the same amount less any policy excess 
applicable. But he wasnt provided this opportunity. And so, I dont think it was fair for EIL to then turn to 
the policy exclusion that left Mr H without both the laptop, and the value of the settlement EIL 
have admitted they were willing to pay. As I dont think EIL acted fairly here, Ive then 
thought about what I think EIL should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr H back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had EIL acted fairly. In this situation, had EIL acted fairly, I think they wouldve given 
Mr H the opportunity to choose a model of a lesser specification that fell within the £1,500 
limit set within the policy. Or, where this wasnt possible, I think Mr H shouldve received a 
cash settlement worth up to the policy limit, less any excess he would need to pay for the 
claim. So, I think EIL should work with Mr H to provide one of these options, on a mutually 
agreeable basis.
I understand EIL is unlikely to agree with this. And I want to recognise EILs concerns about 
ensuring Mr H is treated the same as any other customer. But crucially, this isnt something 
that impacts the decision Ive reached on this specific occasion. My role here is to consider 
the individual circumstances of Mr Hs complaint on its own merits, thinking about its own set 
of circumstances to decide what I think a fair outcome would be.
And I also think its worth noting that, within the internal system notes Ive seen, EIL have 
acknowledged that they way they handle these kind of situations, and the options they 
provide their customers, changed in the month after Mr H made his claim. And this change 
means that, under this new process, Mr H wouldve been offered the chance to receive a 
cash settlement less any excess applicable on the policy. While I dont intend to speculate 
on why EIL implemented this change, I think this change ensures customers in similar 
situations receive fairer treatment and in this situation, I think the same principles should be 
applied to Mr Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Hs claim about esure Insurance Limited and I 
direct them to take the following action:
Agree a replacement model with Mr H that falls below the £1,500 policy limit; or,
Provide Mr H with a cash settlement to the same value, up to the limit of the policy, 
less any applicable policy excess thats payable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman