DRN-3830933
The complaint
Mrs W had the benefit of a private medical insurance policy underwritten by BUPA Insurance 
Limited (the policy).
Mrs W is unhappy that she was required to pay her full monthly premiums although BUPA
wasnt able to provide services she required as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. This meant BUPA policy holders
werent able to access routine and non-urgent treatment.
In around March 2020, Mrs W noticed a large lump in her breast. She contacted her GP 
about this but wasnt able to see them face-to-face. She was advised to monitor the lump. 
Understandably worried, Mrs W contacted BUPA in early April 2020 as she wanted another 
opinion. 
BUPAs representative gave her the details of two specialists at private facilities close to 
where she lived and provided pre-authorisation under the policy for the consultation and any 
blood tests, x-rays, ultrasound scans, mammogram or biopsy needed. She was reminded of 
the financial limit relating to outpatient appointments under the policy and the remaining 
excess shed need to pay. She was also told that due to the current circumstances both 
facilities had notified BUPA that it wouldnt be carrying out non-urgent tests and she might 
not be able to see a consultant straight away. Mrs W was also told that she had access to a 
virtual GP via her policy and could speak to a nurse. 
Mrs W subsequently contacted BUPA at the start of May 2020 raising concerns that she 
wasnt able to see the specialist face to face and had been told that ultrasound scans 
werent being carried out at that time. She was told that shed only be able to have a biopsy. 
As a result, rather than have the lump investigated via her medical insurance, she managed 
to secure a face-to-face appointment with her GP who referred her for further investigation 
via the NHS. The lump was benign, and she was able to have it drained. 
Mrs W is very unhappy that she was able to get the treatment she needed on the NHS at the 
time but not through her medical insurance, which she was paying for. Mrs W says its unfair 
that she was required to pay for the policy during this time, as she couldnt access the 
medical care she required from the medical facilities. She wanted BUPA to refund and pause 
her insurance premiums until the impact of Covid-19 on private medical facilities was over. 
BUPA didnt agree to Mrs Ws request, although it did offer to not charge her for one months 
premium which Mrs W didnt think was enough. 
BUPA also told Mrs W about its pledge to pass back any exceptional financial benefit it 
ultimately received as a result of pandemic to its UK health insurance customers (BUPAs 
pledge). 
In June 2021, Mrs W was notified that as part of BUPAs pledge shed receive a rebate of 
just over £100, representing around one months premium shed paid for the policy for the 
policy year 2020/2021. Unhappy with this amount, Mrs W raised her concerns with BUPA 
and her complaint wasnt upheld. So, Mrs W brought a complaint to our service. 
Having considered everything, our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws concerns. Mrs W didnt 
agree. So, her complaint has been passed to me consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has an obligation to treat customers fairly. Taking into account all the circumstances 
of this case, I think the position taken by BUPA is fair and reasonable. So, whilst I know Mrs 
W will be very disappointed, Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that during 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the 
NHS to support the NHSs response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This temporarily 
affected the ability for BUPAs members to access the full range of services usually 
available  including Mrs W. Im satisfied this was due to the unprecedented and 
unforeseen impact of the pandemic. And whilst outside of Mrs Ws control, it was also 
outside of the control of BUPA. 
BUPA did put in place other benefits to support its members at this time  including, 
where possible, arranging remote consultations with medical professionals. And 
urgent treatment for conditions like cancer were still taking place. Im therefore 
persuaded that Mrs Ws policy was still capable of benefitting her during this time.
However, I accept what Mrs W says about not being able to see a specialist face to 
face when she wanted the lump in her breast investigated in April 2020. And that she 
was only offered a call with the specialist by the private medical facilities (which Mrs 
W didnt think would be useful) and a possible biopsy (which I know Mrs W says 
wouldnt have been the right diagnostic test). But that was due to the restrictions of 
the private facilities not due to BUPA. 
BUPA had provided pre-authorisation for Mrs W to see a specialist at the time and for 
diagnostic tests (up to the amount of the financial limit of her policy), including a 
biopsy if required. It also made Mrs W aware that private facilities were beginning to 
restrict non-urgent tests and she may have to wait for the availability of a consultant. 
Mrs W was also informed that she had access to a virtual GP through her medical 
insurance and could speak to a nurse about the lump. Having listened to the call in 
early April 2020, Im satisfied that the information provided to Mrs W was correct and 
the call was handled fairly. 
BUPA announced that if it saw a reduction in the claims it pays for customers overall, 
it was committed to pass back to eligible members any exceptional financial benefit it 
had made because of the pandemic. I think BUPAs intended course of action at the 
time was reasonable, given the effects of the pandemic were still ongoing and the 
impact was uncertain. So, I dont think it acted unreasonably by not agreeing to 
refund Mrs Ws premiums  or pause premiums going forward. It did offer her one 
months premium free at the time and to look at ways to reduce the cost including a 
mid-term adjustment to reduce policy coverage. I can understand why Mrs W didnt 
want to do this, but I dont think BUPA was reasonably required to do more at the time in the circumstances of Mrs Ws case.
I know Mrs W isnt happy with the amount of the rebate she was offered as part of 
BUPAs pledge. I accept that there was an overall reduction in the claims made on 
BUPAs private medical insurance policies in 2020, after the start of the pandemic so 
BUPAs outlay during that period wouldve been lower than it had planned for. 
However, I also accept that its likely that non-urgent treatments - deferred in the 
earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve still needed to have been delivered and 
funded by BUPA at some point in the future once private facilities were no longer 
required by the NHS to treat patients. So, Im satisfied that its likely that the costs of 
such treatments were simply delayed to a later date.
Further, BUPA commissioned an independent third party to assure that the way in 
which it shares out the rebate is fair and reasonable across eligible UK health 
insurance members, and it was satisfied with its intended course of action. Rebate 
payments were relative to the premiums eligible customers paid when treatment was 
most disrupted due to independent hospitals and medical staff supporting the NHS; 
between the end of March and the end of September 2020. 
Im satisfied that the rebate amount Mrs W received was in line with the rebate 
payments made to all eligible UK members  an approach which has been verified by 
an independent third party. So, I dont think Mrs Ws been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably here. I dont think BUPA ought reasonably to have made an exception 
for Mrs W and paid her a higher rebate. BUPA also committed to carrying out a final 
review to ensure it had met its pledge. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances given that the full impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was still unknown 
at the time.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman