DRN-3306132
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have imposed too high a 
burden of proof on a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or in whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to raise a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) says, amongst other things, that the car should have been 
of satisfactory quality when supplied. As Mr S identified a problem with the door in the first 
few days I think its likely this car was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition and that there 
has therefore been a breach of contract. The relevant legislation says that in those 
circumstances the business should be given an opportunity to repair the car.
I dont think the supplier has disputed their liability. Theyve agreed to carry our repairs but 
want Mr S to provide two quotes for them so that they can repair the car at a fair price. 
The Consumer Rights Act says that repairs should be carried out without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer, but I dont think their request that Mr S obtains a further 
quote creates significant inconvenience. 
I dont think thats unreasonable and I dont therefore think Nationwide, who Mr S has a like 
right to claim against, have been unfair to ask Mr S to provide that second quote. I think its 
fair to expect Mr S to provide evidence of the fault and cost to repair the car. I dont think 
Nationwide needed to offer any alternative arrangements such an exchange of the car, and 
Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman