DRN-3640115
The complaint
Mr W complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim on his 
building warranty policy, relating to the block paved areas in his development.
What happened
Mr W owns a new-build apartment thats covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. The 
policy started in 2011. Mr W is also a director of the Residential Management Company 
(RMC). The RMC has appointed a third-party, who Ill refer to as B, to help the 
leaseholders in the development make their claims.
Whilst, at this time, only Mr W has approached our service, both B and NHBC are aware that 
what I say here, would likely apply to the other leaseholders too if they were to bring the 
same complaint to our service.
In 2018, claims were made on the development for movement and cracking in the apartment 
blocks, retaining walls, and roads; defective cladding; and defective drainage.
The complaint brought to our service only concerns the claim decision for the block paved 
areas, i.e. the main access roadway, communal areas, and parking bays. Whilst Im not 
considering the other items that were, or are still being, investigated by NHBC; I will 
comment on the claim decision for the retaining walls.
During the final eight years of cover (i.e. years 3-10), sections 3, 4, and 5 apply. Section 5, 
which covers land contamination, isnt relevant to this complaint. 
Section 3 covers any physical damage if caused by a defect in certain parts of the flat or 
its common parts. Ill outline the parts of the policy definitions that are relevant to this 
complaint:
- Damage  physical damage to the home caused by a defect.
- Defect  a breach of any mandatory NHBC requirement during construction.
- Home  the flat, any common parts, the drainage system serving the home for 
which the policyholder is responsible, retaining walls, path, drive, and paved areas.
- Common parts  the parts of the building containing a flat, any drainage system 
serving the home, retaining walls, path, drive, and paved areas.
Section 4 covers the builders non-compliance with certain building regulations that applied 
at the time of construction, if causing a present or imminent danger. Section 4 only applies 
if NHBC provided building control.
In NHBCs investigation report, in relation to the block paving, it commented that the general 
surfacing shows varying degrees of settlement movement. NHBC concluded remedial work 
was required to the sub-base, which would mean lifting and relaying the paving. However, 
NHBC said the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
In July 2020, B complained about NHBCs claim decision for the block paved areas. B said it 
was evident the areas in question had sunk and heaved due to defective foundations. B said 
NHBC was liable under section 3 because damage to the common parts had been caused 
by a defect in the foundations. 
B also said NHBC was liable under section 4, because the damage presented a trip hazard, 
and the developer had breached building regulations in relation to structure and site 
preparation.
NHBC said, whilst damage caused by defective foundations is covered under section 3, the 
term foundations refers to the support given to a building. NHBC noted the paving blocks 
are supported on a laying course, road base, sub-base, and subgrade, which isnt 
considered to be a foundation.
In respect of section 4, NHBC explained the applicable building regulations dont extend to 
the sub-base or makeup below the surface finish. As such, NHBC concluded there hadnt 
been a breach of building regulations.
B, on behalf of Mr W, brought a complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think 
it should be upheld. Because B disagreed, Mr Ws complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ive already issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In 
my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Block paved areas
Paths, drives, and paved areas fall under the definition of home. So, its not disputed that 
the settlement issues have caused physical damage to the home. 
However, for the damage to be covered under section 3, it needs to have been caused by a 
defect in one of the parts listed within section 3. The only part listed that could be relevant 
here is foundations.
NHBC says the term foundations refers to the support given to a building. But, notably, the 
term foundations isnt defined in the policy. 
Whilst I accept, in the construction industry, the term foundations commonly refers to the 
load bearing part of a building, more generally, it can reasonably be used to refer to the 
natural or prepared ground that structures, such as block paving, are laid upon. Im not 
persuaded the average policyholder would read the policy terms and understand 
foundations was only referring to the support given to a building.
NHBC has interpreted the term foundations very narrowly. In the absence of a clear policy 
definition, Im not persuaded NHBCs approach is fair and reasonable. Given the term is 
somewhat open to interpretation, and in the context of the cover being provided (which 
includes paths, drives, and paved areas) Im minded to interpret the term in favour of the 
policyholder.I understand NHBC has recently accepted the leaseholders claims for one of the blocked 
paved areas on the basis defective drains have contributed to the damage, and drainage 
investigations are to be undertaken in other areas. However, regardless of any drainage 
issues, for the reasons explained above, I intend to decide all the damaged block paved 
areas should be covered under section 3. 
Because I intend to decide Mr Ws block paving claim should succeed under section 3, its 
not necessary for me to consider section 4 at this time. 
Fees and compensation
B hasnt mentioned its fees or compensation at this stage. However, for completeness, Ill 
set out my intended outcome in relation to those matters.
Its my understanding that B was appointed before NHBC issued its first investigation report. 
Where the insured chooses to appoint a third party to represent them in their claim, we 
generally dont expect the insurer to cover those costs. 
Equally, a complaint could have been brought to us for free, without Bs involvement. Its 
uncommon for us to make awards for professional representation, and Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me I should reasonably do so here.
I consider it likely that NHBCs claim decision for the block paved areas will have caused 
Mr W some inconvenience, particularly because he volunteered to have his complaint 
considered by our service ahead of the other leaseholders in the development. In 
recognition of that, I intend to award him £150 compensation. 
Retaining walls
The retaining walls are suffering from movement and cracking. NHBC declined the damage 
on the basis the walls arent necessary for the structural stability of a building. 
Retaining walls fall under the definition of home. However, for the damage to be covered 
under section 3, it needs to have been caused by a defect in one of the parts listed within 
section 3. There are two parts listed that could be relevant:
-foundations
-retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, flat or 
maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding
I accept the retaining walls in question arent necessary for the structural stability of a 
building.
However, if the defects causing the movement and cracking are in the foundations of the 
retaining walls, that damage should, subject to the other policy terms and conditions, be 
covered. In other words, section 3 covers physical damage to the home (which includes 
retaining walls), if caused by a defect in its foundations.
Having spoken to NHBC about this matter, its confirmed it will revisit its claim decision for 
the retaining walls. Should NHBC maintain its decision to decline the retaining walls, for 
either the same or a different reason, Mr W is free to make a complaint about that.The other leaseholders claims
Because only Mr W has approached our service, I can only make a direction in relation to his 
share of the repair costs. 
However, if my final decision follows what Ive said here, it would be in NHBCs interests to 
settle the other leaseholders block paving claims on the above basis, and reconsider their 
retaining wall claims, to avoid similar complaints. 
NHBC accepted my provisional decision, but it made the following points:
- The damage to the paved areas has potentially been caused by a defect in the laying 
course and/or sub-base. The complaint is therefore focused on whether the laying 
course and sub-base can reasonably be termed foundations.
- The term foundations was intended to strictly refer to the support given to a building, 
and in the construction industry, this is what the term foundations commonly refers 
to. However, NHBC accepts theres not a clear definition of foundations in Mr Ws 
policy and a broader approach could be applied.
- Not all the homeowners on the development have the same policy version as Mr W. 
In the event other homeowners make a complaint, they will be subject to the policy 
wording that applies to them.
 
- NHBC now agrees that, if theres a defect in the laying course and/or sub-base, then 
the defect is in the foundations of the paving blocks, and therefore, the damage is 
covered under Mr Ws policy.
- However, NHBCs investigation didnt conclusively find there had been a failure of the 
laying course and/or sub-base. An assumption was made, which may have been 
incorrect. Theres been inadequate investigations due to NHBCs conclusion the 
damage wasnt covered.
- NHBC says it would need to excavate the paving, test the subsoil, and compare the 
actual sub-base depth with the required sub-base depth from its standards to 
establish if the design was appropriate. 
- If the design wasnt adequate, this would be a defect. However, a degree of variation 
in levels should be anticipated  this is covered by current NHBC standards which 
note: displacement and variations in surface levels, including scuffing and pitting, 
may arise due to settlement, natural ground movement and traffic.
B, on behalf of Mr W, accepted my provisional decision. However, B asked that I reconsider 
its professional fees and extend the decision (including the £150 compensation) to all the 
leaseholders. B made the following points:
- Mr W is a director of the RMC, and the RMC has authority to make decisions about 
the site. As such, although this complaint was made using Mr Ws details, it was 
always intended for the complaint to be on behalf of all the leaseholders.
- It was B who identified the various issues at the site, and it was B who then raised 
the claims to NHBC. Without Bs involvement its unlikely claims would have been 
made in connection with the roads. B noted the average policyholder wouldnt 
understand the complexities involved.- Its also highly probable that the average policyholder would have given up after the 
claims were declined, or after their complaint was rejected by NHBC, or after their 
complaint wasnt upheld by our investigator. Instead, B took matters forward.
- The whole claims process has been ongoing since May 2018, which means all the 
residents have been living in limbo with a variety of defects for over four years.
- Consequently, the claims process has been a very stressful endeavour for all 
concerned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that as a director of the RMC, Mr W has authority to make decisions about the site. 
However, the building warranty policies under which the claims have been made, are held 
individually by the leaseholders. The RMC has no right to make claims under the 
leaseholders policies, or to bring a complaint to our service.
I cant consider the other leaseholders claims for their share of the repair costs unless they 
bring their own complaint to our service. Likewise, I cant consider their inconvenience, or 
make a compensation award to them. Because only Mr W has brought a complaint to us, 
I can only make a direction in relation to him and his policy. 
That said, subject to the other leaseholders policy terms, I would reasonably expect NHBC 
to apply what Ive said about Mr Ws block paving and retaining wall claims, to the other 
leaseholders claims. 
To be clear, Ive only considered the policy terms that apply to Mr W. So, at this stage, Ive 
no view on the other policy versions that apply across the site. But ultimately, if any of the 
other leaseholders are unhappy with the approach NHBC takes in relation to their claims, 
they can raise their own complaint.
In respect of the block paving repairs, I provisionally decided NHBC should settle Mr Ws 
claim for his share of the repair costs. However, I accept NHBCs point that a defect (as 
defined by the policy terms) hasnt yet been proved. Therefore, I find it reasonable for 
NHBC to be given an opportunity to complete more thorough investigations. 
However, it follows that, if a defect is found in the foundations of the block paving, NHBC 
will need to settle Mr Ws claim for his share of the block paving repairs costs. If NHBC 
determines the issue isnt a defect in the foundations, then Mr W can raise another 
complaint, and if necessary, bring that complaint to our service. 
Im mindful Ive not considered section 4 as part of this complaint. So, should Mr W need to 
bring a further complaint to our service about the block paving following NHBCs further 
investigations, we can, if necessary, consider section 4 at that time.
Turning to Bs professional fees, it wasnt my intention to undermine the value B has added 
to the leaseholders claims and this complaint. I acknowledge that building warranty claims, 
particularly those involving common parts, can be complex and daunting for the average 
policyholder. But, nonetheless, that doesnt change what I said in my provisional decision 
about professional representation and related fees.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is National House-Building Council should:
- investigate the block paving foundations, and if a defect is found in the foundations 
which is causing damage, settle Mr Ws claim for his share of the repair costs (as 
per his lease agreement);
- reconsider Mr Ws claim for his share of the retaining wall repair costs (as per his 
lease agreement); and
- pay Mr W £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman