DRN-4363478
The complaint
Mrs and Mr E are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined 
their claim for storm damage to the lean to on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mrs and Mr E made a claim for storm damage to their previous insurer; LV took 
over the policy and claim and reissued the complaint response. 
LV maintained that the frame of the lean to wouldnt be covered under the claim 
as it was showing signs of rot.
However, it covered the damage to the glass as this could be considered under 
the Accidental Damage part of the policy.
To apologise for the poor handling of the claim. LV compensated £300.
Mrs and Mr E consider that its unfair of LV not to cover the frame, and that they 
would like it to cover the full claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said she didnt 
consider that the storm had caused the damage to the frame, but rather 
highlighted an existing issue with it.
Mrs and Mr E disagreed that LV had shown rot was present and they considered 
theyd evidenced that the lean to had been damaged by the storm.
As Mrs and Mr E disagreed with our investigators view the complaint has been 
passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our services approach to storm complaint is to ask three questions:
Has it been proven, on balance, that there were storm conditions on or around 
the date the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the dominant or main cause of the 
damage?
If any of the answers to the above is no, the claim wouldnt be successful.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of loss?
LV accept that there were storm conditions present for the date of loss, so Ive moved on to 
consider the next question.
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
I consider that a storm could cause damage to the lean to, especially the glass. So, Im 
satisfied that the damage is consistent to that which a storm can cause.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ive reviewed the photos that Mrs and Mr E provided on their claim. I can see the wooden 
timbers show signs of general wear and tear and evidence of rot. There are patches of 
darker wood in the timber and cracking which are signs of rot.
A storm is a one-off event, and it wouldnt cause the timbers to rot. On the balance of 
probabilities, I consider that the storm itself highlighted an issue with the timbers, rather than 
being the main cause of the lean to collapsing. As such, Im unable to say the storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage.
Mrs and Mr E say that a proper inspection wasnt carried out and only photos that they 
provided were reviewed. Its not an uncommon practice for an insurer to review photos that 
their customer provides on a claim. Im satisfied that there was sufficient evidence for the 
claim decision to be made.
LV have also said it is willing to appoint a contractor to carry out an inspection of the timbers, 
and this inspection remains open to Mrs and Mr E if theyd like to take this offer. The onus is 
on Mrs and Mr E, as the policyholder, to show they have a claim that can be considered and 
accepted under an insurable peril covered by the policy. 
The broken glass of the lean to can be considered under the Accidental Damage part of the 
policy which acts as a separate insurable peril. This could also include any internal damage 
that was a result of the storm and Id expect LV to provide their decision on this to Mrs and 
Mr E if theyve made a claim.
Overall, Im satisfied with the outcome LV have reached on the complaint and the £300 
compensation it has paid for how the claim was handled. So, I wont be instructing it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman