DRN-2677970
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Than (RSA) 
didnt cover all of the damage caused to his car by a third party when he made a claim under 
his car insurance policy. 
Mr C is being represented in his complaint by Mrs M.
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged by another driver who was at fault. RSA settled the claim and 
covered what it said was incident related damage to Mr Cs car. 
Mr C said there was mechanical damage caused by a drink driver shunting his car from 
behind a number of times while it was parked. Mr C paid for these repairs to be carried out 
as RSA wouldnt cover them. He wanted RSA to reimburse him for these costs. 
RSA said it had correctly dealt with his claim, having followed the advice of the approved 
repairer (AR) and its engineer. For some poor service, RSA paid Mr C £100 compensation. 
Mr C didnt agree and so he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably. 
Mrs M doesnt agree RSA should have made a decision based on video footage without 
physically inspecting Mr Cs car. She said the garage Mr C took his car to is a reputable one 
and they told Mr C the suspension damage almost certainly occurred at the time of the 
incident. She says the driver drove into Mr Cs car seven times with their foot on the 
accelerator  and a police report is available. 
Mrs M doesnt understand why RSA seemed to work against Mr Cs interests when it was 
able to recover the claim costs from the third party insurer. She says RSA took far too long 
to settle the claim and could have handled it much better. She says RSA hasnt paid Mr C 
any compensation.
So on behalf of Mr C, Mrs M has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr C through no fault of his own has had to deal with a claim for 
damage to his car. I can understand the distress and inconvenience this has caused. My role 
is to consider whether RSA as his insurer acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
An insurer can look to recover only claim related costs from a third party insurer - and where 
it can provide reasonable evidence to support their claim. So if its of the view that it doesnt 
have sufficient evidence to support all incident related damage being claimed for, an insurer 
cannot  and should not look to claim those costs from a third party insurer, even if liability is 
clear from early on.
In the first two weeks after the incident, Mr Cs claim was being dealt with by the third party 
insurer directly. The garage that inspected Mr Cs car reported that due to the incident 
circumstances and the external damage, suspension damage couldnt have been caused 
and so wouldnt meet these repair costs. 
Mr C then asked RSA to deal with the claim . RSA confirmed that it would meet the disputed 
claim costs if it found they were incident related. But following a review by one of its 
engineers, RSA didnt find this to be the case. 
The engineer said that the video footage provided by Mr C was inconclusive as it didnt show 
his car  only the third party drivers movements. From this, he said it showed only light 
impact damage could have occurred. The engineer said that Mr C told him his car had been 
pushed onto the kerb. But the engineer didnt find this was plausible due to the video footage 
and the visible damage to Mr Cs car. Although the engineer didnt physically inspect Mr Cs 
car, I can see the approved repairer provided several photos detailing the visible damage. 
So I think  along with the video footage, he engineer could give a balanced opinion based 
on his experience and knowledge.
As Mr C didnt agree, RSA agreed for his car to be inspected by an Independent Assessor. 
RSA has provided copy emails from 30 July 2020 to show its attempts to contact Mr C to 
arrange this. On 30 July 2020 RSA wrote:
The black box data from your vehicle has been reviewed as requested.
There are no impacts following the incident.
Some impacts were recorded before the accident and there was a large impact 
recorded on the 14th May. It is possible the damage may have been caused with any 
of these impacts.
RSA asked Mr C to confirm the location of his car. On the same day Mr C confirmed his car 
had been returned to his home address. 
On 3 August 2020 Mr C reiterated that the suspension damage to his car was caused by the 
incident. On 4 August 2020 RSA told Mr C by email that it would arrange for an independent 
inspection and would chase for when this would take place. RSA explained that its decision 
was based on two engineers opinion  and that Mr Cs preferred garages verbal opinion 
wasnt enough to prove otherwise. Before the IA visit was arranged, Mr C said hed already 
arranged for his car to be repaired privately. So this meant an IA was unable to make an 
assessment on the suspension damage. 
Mrs M said Mr C couldnt wait any longer without using his car as he was moving home. Mr 
C says Mrs M paid for these repairs on 12 August 2020 on his behalf and requires 
reimbursement. 
RSAs file notes show that on 25 August 2020 it said Mr C replied to its request to arrange 
an inspection and said hed already had his car repaired. On the same day RSA replied to 
Mr Cs complaint. It said some of the calls Mr C had made about the claim handling was not 
due to poor service by RSA. It said the claim was outside their control while the third party 
insurer was handling it. However, it apologised for its failings in promptly arranging for an IA. For this poor service it said it would pay Mr C £100 compensation and asked him to provide 
his bank details for payment. 
Looking at the available evidence, the AR and engineers opinions were that the suspension 
repairs were not caused by the incident. I understand Mr Cs reasons for having his car 
repaired before an inspection was arranged. But I dont think this means that RSA should 
therefore meet the costs to repair the suspension damage. Based on the information it had, 
its decision was reasonable. It made an offer for Mr Cs car to be inspected again by an IA. I 
cant criticise it for its approach here. Because of the circumstances, RSA made a 
compensation award of £100 to Mr C, which it was to pay on receipt of his bank details. 
I realise Mr C will be very disappointed. But overall I think RSA acted in a reasonable way 
when considering his claim. As Mr C arranged for the repairs to be carried out before an IA 
could inspect his car, the evidence available didnt support Mr Cs view that the third party 
driver was responsible for the suspension damage to his car. And so I think RSAs 
compensation award was fair. I havent seen enough to show that the suspension damage 
Mr C claimed for was incident related. This means I dont think RSA should provide 
reimbursement for these repair costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think RSA fairly dealt with Mr Cs complaint. If it hasnt already 
done so, it should pay Mr C the £100 compensation within 28 days of Mr C accepting my 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman