DRN-4007364
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the service he got from Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd 
(Acorn) when he renewed his taxi insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Z renewed his taxi insurance policy through Acorn. And he had a finance agreement with 
a third-party finance provider to pay for his policy by monthly direct debit. 
In the welcome pack Acorn sent Mr Z following his renewal, it said his first direct debit 
payment would be taken from his account on 1 November.
Around two weeks after Acorn sent Mr Z its welcome pack, the finance provider sent Mr Z 
his finance agreement. This said his first direct debit payment would be taken on 26 October.
The policy renewed on 20 October but, on 26 October, the finance provider was unable to 
collect Mr Zs direct debit payment.
Mr Z complained to Acorn that the finance provider had tried to collect his payment sooner 
than his policy documents said it would. He cancelled his direct debit because of this. Acorn 
told Mr Z his policy would stay in place while it was sorting out the problem with the 
payment. And, later on, Acorn also promised Mr Z a call-back from a manager. 
Despite what Acorn had told Mr Z about his cover staying in place, it subsequently cancelled 
the policy (although it was reinstated within a few hours). And Acorn didnt make the call-
back it promised Mr Z. So Mr Z complained to Acorn about these things as well.
Acorn upheld Mr Zs complaint. It said due to a system error, Mr Zs welcome pack gave the 
incorrect date for his first direct debit payment (which it said shouldve been 26 October 
rather than 1 November). Acorn also said it had cancelled Mr Zs policy incorrectly and 
hadnt called him back as it had promised. 
Acorn apologised to Mr Z for these things. It says it emailed Mr Z to confirm his car was 
insured for the period when it had incorrectly cancelled his policy and amended Mr Zs direct 
debit to the 1st of the month (which I understand was his preferred collection date). Also from 
what Acorn says, I think Mr Z subsequently made his first direct debit payment to the finance 
provider without paying its administration fee of £25. Finally, Acorn paid Mr Z £75 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Mr Z is unhappy with the compensation Acorn has paid him. Among other things, he says 
the policy cancellation meant he lost £800 in earnings. So Mr Z brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator who looked at it was satisfied Acorn had put things right for Mr Z by taking 
the actions Ive described above. 
Mr Z disagrees. He doesnt think the compensation Acorn has paid him of £75 is fair. So his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the compensation of £75 that Acorn has paid Mr Z is fair and 
reasonable, so Im not upholding his complaint about it. Ill explain why.
I think Acorn has done the right thing in accepting it made a number of mistakes in its 
handling of Mr Zs taxi insurance policy renewal. Although Mr Zs finance agreement gave 
what Acorn says was the correct collection date for the direct debit, even if Mr Z had 
spotted the discrepancy in dates between his policy documents and the finance agreement, I 
think this wouldve been confusing for him. In any case, it mustve been annoying for Mr Z to 
find out his first direct debit payment had been declined because the finance provider had 
tried to collect it sooner than Acorn had told him it would be. 
Similarly, it mustve been highly stressful for Mr Z to be told his insurance had been 
cancelled when hed previously got a specific assurance from Acorn that it wouldnt be while 
the issue with the direct debit payment was being investigated.
And, finally, it mustve been irritating for Mr Z not to get the call-back from Acorn hed been 
promised, which also meant he had to go to the trouble of getting back in touch again.
From all of this, its clear to me Mr Zs experience with Acorn in relation to his taxi insurance 
policy renewal involved more than the everyday hassle we can all expect in trying to get 
things done. But Acorn re-instated Mr Zs policy within around three hours of cancelling it 
incorrectly and also confirmed to Mr Z that his taxi had remained on cover throughout this 
period. Acorn also subsequently amended Mr Zs direct debit payment date to his preferred 
date. Mr Z wasnt charged a late payment fee by his finance provider. And Acorn apologised 
to Mr Z for all of these mistakes  as well as for failing to call Mr Z back.  
Mr Z says things couldve been very different had he not acted so promptly in highlighting to 
Acorn the various problems that arose as part of his policy renewal. And he says the time he 
spent sorting things out meant he lost £800 in income. 
Mr Z hasnt, however, given us any other evidence to support his statement that he lost this 
income. On the basis of his statement alone, I dont think an award for loss of earnings 
would be fair and reasonable here. And while I agree things couldve turned out differently 
had Mr Z not been pro-active in his dealings with Acorn, our approach to compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is based on the impact a financial businesss mistakes actually 
had on a consumer  not on what it mightve had. From everything Ive seen, Im in no doubt 
that Acorns mistakes did cause Mr Z some distress and inconvenience. But I think the 
compensation of £75 that Acorn has paid Mr Z is fair and reasonable for the impact these 
mistakes had on him.
Mr Z is also unhappy because he says Acorn failed to keep a promise to stop the finance 
provider contacting him while the issue with the direct debit was being sorted out. Acorn 
says it didnt tell Mr Z it would do this. So the evidence here is conflicting. But even if Acorn 
had made the request, I dont think that would necessarily have stopped the finance provider 
contacting Mr Z, given that thered been a missed payment under the finance agreement. So 
I cant say Acorn did anything substantially wrong here. And, if Mr Z remains unhappy about 
the actions of the finance provider, in the first instance hed need to complain to it  and then 
bring his complaint to us if hes unhappy with the answer hes given.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman