DRN-3681024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the outcome of their household insurance claim for trace and 
access costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim for trace and access costs following a leak to a pipe under their 
driveway. Mr and Mrs S arranged for the work to be done themselves after contacting AXA, 
and it cost them £2,900. That was just for the trace and access as they accepted the works 
required outside of that wouldnt be covered due to wear and tear.
AXA considered the claim and their contractors said the cost of tracing the leak would have 
been £808.80. They settled the claim on that basis after deducting the excess, saying the 
work required would have been far more limited than that carried out by Mr and Mrs Ss 
contractors.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with that, they said the trace and access costs theyd incurred 
were much more.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They first said AXA had treated Mr and Mrs S 
fairly, but later said further costs ought to be covered. They said it was an emergency 
situation due to Mr and Mrs S not having access to water  and that they hadnt acted 
unreasonably.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but Im not upholding their complaint, Ill explain why.
AXA have provided a report from their contractors to show that they believe the cost of 
tracing the leak would have been £808.80, and they have settled the claim on that basis. Its 
reasonable for AXA to rely on their contractors opinion.
That isnt to say it cant be questioned or scrutinised, but Mr and Mrs S havent provided 
much to call it into question. And while the investigator suggested it was an emergency, Ive 
listened to a call Mr S made to AXA where he says the pressure had dropped, as opposed to 
them having no water at all.
AXA also say the excavation work required to complete the repairs far outweighs the cost of 
identifying the cause of the escape of water, which is whats covered.
The policy says it will cover the necessary and reasonable costs the insured incurs in finding 
the source of the damage. Based on AXAs contractors report, this would have been 
£808.80, because the detection of the cause would have been lesser than the excavation it 
required to complete the repairs in full.
Overall, I dont think AXA were unreasonable in relying on their contractors estimate.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman