DRN-2971922
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zenith Insurance plc increased the premium for his motor insurance 
policy disproportionately after he provided his proof of No Claims Discount (NCD). He wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
What happened
Mr S applied for a policy online though a comparison site. He said he had five years NCD. 
The broker then asked him to provide evidence of his NCD. This showed that Mr S had only 
four years NCD. So Zenith increased the premium and the broker charged a fee for the 
change. 
When Mr S complained, the broker waived the fee and part of its set up fee and Zenith 
reduced the premium so that Mr S only paid the amount he was quoted online when he 
reduced his NCD to four years. But Mr S remained unhappy as he thought the premium 
increase was disproportionately high for existing rather than new customers.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
broker was entitled to ask for documentation to validate the policy. He thought Mr S had 
stated the incorrect NCD years. He thought it was reasonable for Zenith to increase the 
premium due to the increased risk. But he thought it had fairly and reasonably reduced the 
premium and the broker had waived and reduced its fees. He didnt think Zenith needed to 
do anything further.
Mr S replied that he thought he was entitled to compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there has been some confusion about which business, the broker or Zenith, is 
the correct respondent for Mr Ss complaint. The broker provided a response to Mr Ss 
complaint. Zenith has explained that the broker had delegated authority to act for it. But as 
Zenith is responsible for setting the premium, then I think the complaint is correctly 
addressed to it. Zenith has agreed to proceed with the complaint set up against it and it 
agreed with the brokers response. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think Mr S made the initial error by stating that his NCD entitlement was five years when it 
was four. I think it was fair and reasonable, and in keeping with industry practice, for the 
broker to request information on Zeniths behalf to validate the policy. And I think the 
Statement of Facts makes it clear that checks may be made to verify NCD entitlement. 
When the broker received the proof of NCD, Zenith then quoted an additional premium. 
With the NCD reduced from five to four years, the premium increased by about a third. But 
Mr S said he obtained a quote online through the same broker for a very slight increase in 
premium with four years NCD. But I cant see that this quote was from the same insurer, 
Zenith. In any case, quotes obtained from comparison sites can change daily.
Mr S had already entered a policy with Zenith, and I think it could reasonably apply its own 
underwriting criteria when it recalculated his premium. The additional premium was 
generated automatically with the correct NCD entitlement. So I cant say that the additional 
premium he was quoted was incorrect. 
The broker, on Zeniths behalf, didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. But, as a gesture of goodwill, 
it reduced his premium to that which he was quoted online with four years NCD entitlement.  
I can understand that Mr S felt the additional premium he was asked for was too high. But I 
cant see that Mr S suffered any financial loss that needs to be considered. 
Mr S wanted compensation for the trouble and upset this matter and raising his complaint 
has caused him. But I think Mr S made the initial mistake. And I cant say that Zenith did 
anything wrong. So I cant say that it needs to pay Mr S any compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman