DRN-4132226
The complaint
As trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), Mr C complains that Organic 
Investment Management (OIM) an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium) unsuitably advised him to switch the discretionary managed part of his 
pension portfolio to a Gallium portfolio. This went on to lose money. 
What happened
Mr C had a personal pension with LV valued at around £42,000. In late 2013, Mr C was 
contacted by an unregulated firm called Your Choice Pensions whom he recalls advised him 
to transfer to a SSAS with Cantwell Grove. On 7 May 2014 £42,200 was transferred.
Another regulated firm (Ill refer to this as B) provided advice to Mr C on an unregulated 
property development to include in his SSAS. On 22 May 2014 Mr C instructed Cantwell 
Grove to invest £11,500 into a Cape Verde investment offered by The Resort Group. A 
similar amount was invested into a discretionary portfolio managed by B, with the rest left in 
the SSAS bank account.
On 10 March 2015 Mr C signed another letter, requesting that Cantwell Grove invest the
full proceeds from Bs discretionary portfolio, and the residual cash in his SSAS, into 
Galliums discretionary portfolio. The letter also said:
Prior to issuing this letter I [Mr C] have obtained and considered investment advice from
Organic however recognise that they have only considered my proposed investment with
them.
OIM wrote to Mr C to confirm that £29,131 had been invested into the Gallium discretionary 
portfolio on 30 March 2015. Mr C had signed an application form with Avalon branding on 6 
February (the unchanged details of which were subsequently copied across to a Gallium 
application form on 26 June). This indicated that he wanted a lower risk investment 
approach (the lowest of four categories where the others were medium low, medium high 
and higher), for an investment term of more than ten years. He expected to invest into the 
Organic Growth model portfolio. The application form also noted:
Gallium will act as the provider of the portfolio management service, on advice from 
Organic. As set out in the terms and conditions, we intend to appoint Organic to replace 
Gallium as discretionary portfolio manager once Organic becomes authorised and regulated 
by the FCA to carry out such activities.
The OIM terms and conditions document referenced above noted:
Before completing an application form each client will be required to undergo a Risk Profile
and Suitability Assessment where we assess each client's suitability for our different
products The portfolios may not be suitable for all investors and Organic will perform
suitability checks on all clients prior to provision of management services.
OIM ceased being an appointed presentative of Gallium on 4 January 2016 when it became
directly authorised by the FCA, and my understanding is that it then took over the 
management of the portfolio directly. The value of the OIM account as of April 2016 was 
£26,956. 
Cantwell Grove later wrote to Mr C on 11 December 2018, saying that OIM had lost its 
regulatory permissions to be able to manage the portfolio. It subsequently confirmed that 
another firm had been appointed by the FCA to oversee the OIM portfolio, and that they 
would also be writing directly to Mr C to offer advice about its suitability as well. 
OIM later went into liquidation and my understanding is that the losses suffered by the 
portfolio led Mr Cs claims management company (CMC) to make a claim to the FSCS about 
OIM. His claim was declined in October 2021, as the complaint appeared to include 
allegations that OIM had advised Mr C to transfer into the portfolio at the outset. And Gallium 
was OIMs principal firm at the time that allegedly happened. 
What our investigator concluded 
On the merits of Mr Cs complaint against Gallium, the investigator noted that there was a 
contradictory overlap between this and a complaint Mr C had made against the original 
adviser, B, in 2013-14. Mr Cs CMC had alleged that, through its appointed representative 
OIM, Gallium was responsible for the transfer of Mr Cs ceding pension to the SSAS and his 
decision to invest in The Resort Group. It had also claimed B was responsible for those 
same things. The investigator concluded that no evidence has been presented to back up 
the CMCs assertions that Gallium was responsible for either.
During his investigation, the investigator had asked for evidence from Gallium and the CMC 
of Galliums involvement in recommending the switch from Bs portfolio to a Gallium portfolio, 
and he hadnt been provided with very much. It consisted of:
- The application form for the Gallium portfolio, which included a disclaimer stating that 
Mr C hadnt received any advice from OIM about the suitability of the portfolio.
- The separate letter (which seems to have been pre-prepared) signed by Mr C stating 
that he had obtained and considered investment advice from OIM. 
The investigator also noted that unregulated introducers (one in particular had been named 
by Mr C) had been active behind the scenes, particularly when the SSAS was originally 
taken out. That provided another possible reason for why Mr C was prompted to initiate a 
switch from Bs portfolio to Galliums. On balance, he wasnt satisfied the limited evidence 
available showed that OIM (or Gallium) contacted or advised Mr C to switch from one 
discretionary provider to the other. He also thought that the assets selected in the Gallium 
portfolio were broadly appropriate for the lower risk mandate Mr C agreed with it as trustee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC has requested this decision without providing any further evidence or arguments 
for me to consider. There appears to be no other evidence it can provide of Galliums alleged 
involvement in recommending a switch from Bs portfolio than that which Ive bulleted 
above.
Theres a difference between recommending that Mr C switch discretionary providers, or 
even recommending that he use Gallium in particular  and checking that his SSAS was 
suitable for Galliums services and would be invested appropriately, after he decided to use Gallium. Galliums terms and conditions indicated that it would be doing the latter, and Im 
satisfied that was what it did in this case. Managing investments with discretion is not the 
same as advising to make those investments, which is why Gallium made disclaimers to 
Mr C that it was not providing advice in that sense.
The letter Mr C signed to say hed taken advice from OIM is quite clearly pre-prepared, most 
likely by Cantwell Grove - or another party that was aware that Mr C had to take advice on 
such investments in order to comply with the obligations on him as a SSAS trustee. That 
doesnt mean that Gallium is bound by the content of a letter it (or OIM) wasnt a party to. In 
any event, the letter doesnt say that OIM had advised Mr C to switch from Bs portfolio to its 
own. It says that OIM have only considered my proposed investment with them. So, I 
dont find this letter inconsistent with the wider evidence.
Turning to the checks Galliums terms and conditions said it would carry out, Im aware that 
Mr C said on his Gallium application form that he had no experience of trading personally, 
and had no significant assets other than his pension. However neither of those were a bar to 
Gallium accepting him, as a SSAS trustee, a client for discretionary management services. 
I think Gallium was entitled to take into account that Mr C had almost £30,000 to invest, 
some of which was already in a discretionary portfolio, and was expecting ongoing income 
from the property investment hed made within his SSAS. Gallium had not recommended 
that investment route to Mr C originally, but it would have been mindful that he was a trustee 
of an occupational pension scheme and had a responsibility to ensure it was invested. 
The scheme provider, Cantwell Grove, was not itself authorised to provide regulated 
investments. Mr C needed to locate a provider for those investments within the scheme, and 
he was seeking to change from the provider he was already using. It wasnt Galliums role to 
assess Mr Cs need for an occupational pension, or the background to why hed established 
it in the first place.
Ive gone on to consider whether the investments Gallium employed were consistent with the 
lower risk mandate selected by Mr C. In statements issued in both April 2015 and April 2016 
(at around the time OIM took over directly), the portfolio was still invested 80% in exchange 
traded funds tracking European and US government bonds, which I consider is consistent 
with the risk level selected. 
By October 2016, that same government bondholding had dropped to only 20% (with 
another 8% in corporate bonds). The largest component was now shares in the US, UK, 
Europe, Asia and emerging markets  totalling about 50%, with the rest made up of cash 
and physical gold. 
Clearly there were some market movements as a result of the UK Brexit vote, and I do not 
know if OIM reassessed Mr Cs attitude to risk when it took over the portfolio. But if Mr C 
considers that he suffered losses in the portfolio that could have been avoided, I havent 
found grounds to conclude that Gallium was responsible for these. I think he would need to 
direct his concerns back to FSCS, to whom he complained in the first place, which is 
accepting claims about OIM.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman