DRN-3310674
The complaint
Mr C brings this complaint on behalf of his daughter Miss C that HSBC UK Bank plc trading 
as First Direct (FD) failed to pay the due service guarantee payment as promised, when she 
closed her bank account with them.
What happened
Mr C says his daughter arranged for the closure of her bank account with FD in early 
September 2021 and it was agreed at that time, she qualified for a £100 service guarantee 
payment (SGP) if she switched her bank account to another provider. Mr C says his 
daughters bank account was closed in mid-September 2021, but the promised SGP wasnt 
paid into her other bank account. Mr C says he telephoned FD on his daughters behalf to 
complain, and although FD accepted they had made a mistake and delayed making the 
SGP, it refused to offer any form of compensation for the time and trouble they had 
experienced. Mr C feels FD should pay a modest amount of compensation for this. 
FD says it apologised to Miss C for the delay in sending the SGP and this was due to a 
processing error. FD says given the matter was rectified within a few days and as it was 
agreed that Miss C had suffered no financial loss, FD didnt feel a compensation payment 
was appropriate. 
Miss C wasnt happy with FDs response and asked her father to refer the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt FD had apologised for its mistake and put matters right as soon as possible. 
The investigator says there was no evidence of any financial loss as a result of the delay and 
didnt feel a compensation payment was warranted here. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Miss C to have not received, as 
promised, the SGP on the day she closed her bank account with FD.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if FD should pay compensation for the delay in 
paying the SGP to Miss Cs other bank account. 
Mr C has made the point that FD have admitted it made a mistake, but it didnt consider the 
amount of time spent in dealing with this matter. 
The first thing to say is I can see the SGP was due to be paid to Miss C when she closed her 
bank account with FD on 13 September 2021. From the information I have seen it has been 
explained to Mr C that the delay in sending the SGP was a result of a processing error and I 
am satisfied in all probability, that is what happened here and not an attempt by FD not to 
pay it. 
Its also fair to say when Mr C complained about this, FD paid the monies to Miss Cs bank 
account with a matter of a few days  so its reasonable to say no financial loss had been 
experienced by Miss C as a result of this slight delay.
While I understand Mr C doesnt feel FD have compensated him or his daughter for the time 
taken over this matter, its not my role to penalise businesses when genuine mistakes are 
made. Here an apology was given as soon as FD became aware of the issue, and the SGP 
was made within a few days of Miss Cs bank account being closed. 
Its also reasonable to say, we all experience some inconvenience from time to time, but 
thats not to say compensation is always warranted, and having considered this complaint I 
dont think it is here, for the reasons I have already given. 
While Miss C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of FD here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman