DRN-3947608
The complaint
Mr S complains EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) cancelled his subscription without any 
warning and that it didnt always adjust its communications for him.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. I intended to come to a different 
outcome to the Investigator and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with 
anything else they wanted me to consider. I have copied my provisional decision below, 
which also forms part of this final decision.
Mr S has had a monthly subscription with Equifax for many years that allows him to access 
his credit report. He pays £7.95 a month to be able to access his credit report and says 
being able to keep a track of his credit report is very important to him. 
In November 2021 Mr S contacted Equifax to ask why it had cancelled his subscription. 
Equifax looked into this for Mr S and said that it had done so because it hadnt been able to 
collect his monthly payment since July 2021. Mr S complained to Equifax saying that it 
should have let him know that it was having a problem collecting his payment and shouldnt 
have cancelled his subscription without warning.
Equifax looked into Mr Ss complaint and emailed him several times without making 
adjustments it had previously agreed. Equifax apologised for not making adjustments it had 
previously agreed to and offered to pay Mr S £50 in compensation. In the meantime, Equifax 
didnt think it had done anything else wrong. Mr S complained to us saying that Equifax had 
made a mistake cancelling his subscription and he shouldnt be liable for its mistake. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and said that it wasnt clear whether or
not Equifax had made a mistake cancelling his subscription, but that hed not lost out
because hed been able to access his credit report for four months without paying to do so.
So, they didnt think Equifax needed to do more as far as cancelling his subscription was
concerned. Our investigator also thought Equifaxs offered to pay Mr S £50 in compensation
for not making adjustments it had previously agreed was fair. Mr S disagreed and asked an
Ombudsman to consider his complaint. He wanted the Ombudsman to call him too so he
could explain the difficulties hed been caused  making the point that these vary from
individual. So, Ive looked into his complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having spoken to Mr S and having looked at the evidence from both sides, its clear that hes 
had problems using Equifaxs services recently and that he prefers the way its website used 
to work. Its clear too that the problems hes had have caused him a lot of frustration and that 
hes considered alternative ways of accessing his credit file. And finally, its clear that 
keeping track of his credit file is important to Mr S. So, I can understand why he was so
unhappy when he found out that Equifax had cancelled his subscription without giving him
any warning and that it hadnt let him know that it had been unable to collect his payment.
Having looked at the evidence from both sides, its clear that Equifax wasnt able to collect
Mr Ss payments for four months but less clear why. Mr S told me when we spoke that he
had to cancel one of his bank cards because he lost some  which could explain the
difficulties Equifax had. Ultimately, however, I dont think it makes a big difference getting to
the bottom of what happened. I know Mr S is very unhappy Equifax cancelled his service
without warning, but I can see he called Equifax on the same day. He didnt then renew his
subscription for over six months, having in effect been able to access his credit report for
four months for free. In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that I dont need to
ask Equifax to do more as far as the cancellation is concerned.
I can see that Mr S let Equifax know that he needed correspondence sent in a specific
format and I can see that this didnt happen on a number of occasions. Equifax has
apologised for this  rightly so  and offered £50 in compensation. Mr S was already having
difficulties using Equifaxs service, so receiving correspondence in a format that was difficult
for him to read would have made matters worse. In the circumstances, I dont think the
compensation Equifax offered is enough. I feel an award of £150 would be more appropriate.
So, thats the award Im minded to make.
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the information available to me again, I will be upholding Mr Ss 
complaint for the same reasons as outlined in my provisional decision. 
Neither party had any further comments to add to my provisional decision. And so, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings I made previously. 
Putting things right
Equifax should put things right for Mr S by paying him £150 in total. 
I note that Equifax has already offered Mr S £50. If Equifax has already paid Mr S £50, it can 
deduct this from the total award.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I order EQUIFAX LIMITED to put 
things right for Mr S by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman