DRN-3070437
The complaint
Mr W complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd have been unable to trace or provide any closure 
details regarding an ISA he previously held with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them fully here. 
Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr W held an ISA with Zurich
He recently came across some documentation relating to the ISA  a statement from 
2006 which was around the time he moved to a new house after his divorce
He hadnt received any correspondence after 2006 and had no recollection of closing 
the ISA 
He contacted Zurich who said that the ISAs were transferred to another business 
(B1) many years ago
Mr W brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators
The investigator got in touch with Zurich who said given the length of time the 
transfer occurred, they no longer held any records of the investment
The investigator also contacted B1 who searched their records using all of Mr Ws 
historic addresses as well as his name, but they were unable to trace any information
The investigator acknowledged Mr Ws frustration but explained that she was unable 
to uphold his complaint as there was no evidence to suggest that the ISA wasnt 
encashed and without further evidence, it was impossible to know what happened to 
the ISA
Mr W didnt agree with her findings and asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint and make a decision

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
There are two possibilities as to what happened to the ISA. It is either still invested or 
has been cashed in.
Zurich confirmed that Mr Ws ISA was transferred to B1 in 2004. B1 have confirmed 
this is correct.
Zurich have said they do not hold any records of the investment given the length of 
time that has passed. I do not think this is unreasonable, businesses often only keep 
records for six years after the end of a relationship. So, its not surprising that Zurich 
have no documentation relating to Mr Ws ISA given that it was transferred to B1 in 
the early 2000s
Given the lack of any information, Im unable to make a finding that Zurich have done 
anything wrong
B1 have provided evidence of searches theyve undertaken using Mr Ws name and 
all the addresses hes lived at since 2006 and theyve been unable to find any record 
of the ISA. And this is what I would expect if the ISA had been cashed in some time 
ago. I accept that B1 would have no requirement to keep records of the ISA for this 
long following encashment.
So, taking everything into account and while I recognise Mr W will be very disappointed, I 
think that, on balance, the most likely explanation of what has happened is that the ISA was 
cashed in many years ago. I accept that I can't say this with absolute certainty, but I must 
decide one way or another, and I don't think the available evidence supports the possibility 
that the ISA is still invested.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman