DRN-3744100
The complaint
Mr N complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) didnt give him 
enough information about whether his account should be defaulted.
What happened
Mr N had an account with Very. Following losing his job, Mr Ns account fell into arrears.
Mr N had various discussions with Very and entered into a payment arrangement in
September 2020. At this time, Very suggested Mr N allow it to default his account. It
explained this would mean it would write off the balance and not chase Mr N for any further
money. But Mr N said he wanted to protect his credit file and opted to enter into a payment 
plan for just under four years instead. Mr N remains on this payment plan to date.
Mr N says he has recently discovered that this payment plan will remain on his credit file for
six years after he makes the last payment. He says, had Very made him aware of this at the
time, he wouldve opted to have the account default as this would have gone from his credit
file much sooner. He complained to Very about this.
Very didnt uphold the complaint so Mr N referred the complaint to our service. Our
investigator thought Very shouldve defaulted Mr Ns account in 2020. She didnt think it had
given Mr N clear enough information to make an informed decision. She asked Very to
rework Mr Ns account to show it defaulting in 2020 and pay Mr N £150 compensation.
Very didnt agree. It said its process wasnt to tell Mr N that the arrangement would show on
his credit file for longer than the arrangement. It said a default wouldve shown as more
derogatory than missed payments. It also explained that it couldnt correct his credit file as
this wouldnt be accurate.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a 
provisional decision on 26 September 2022 setting out why I intended to uphold this 
complaint and how I thought things should be put right. In this I said:
Ive listened to the calls Mr N had with Very. The most relevant call is the one in September
2020. At this point Mr N was calling to set up a new payment plan. Its obvious from the call
that Mr N was struggling with repayments. And its clear Mr Ns priority was to eventually
repair his credit file so he may be able to obtain a mortgage to buy a house in the future.
This is the reason Mr N was so desperate to avoid a default. Very did try to encourage Mr N
to accept it defaulting his account. It also confirmed it wouldnt chase Mr N for the balance of
a debt due to him being a vulnerable consumer.
However, I think Mr N chose not to default his account because of a mistaken belief on how
a payment arrangement would be recorded on his credit file. From listening to the calls, I
dont think Very gave Mr N enough information about how long a payment arrangement and
the associated arrears would stay on his credit file for him to make an informed decision.
Very said it told Mr N that The payment arrangement will show on your credit file with
regards to the length of time you are on this arrangement. However, this isnt correct. The
account will show as in a payment arrangement for this period of time. However, as the
account was in arrears, this would also continue to be reported. And record of both the
payment arrangement and the arrears would remain for a further six-year period after the
payment arrangement had ended and until the last months of arrears disappeared. Though
the impact of this on Mr Ns credit file would reduce over time. At one point during one of the
calls with Very, Mr N says he understands that his credit file would show as clear in three
years. This was also incorrect, but the advisor didnt explain this to Mr N or correct his
understanding.
Had Very clearly set out that a default would not show on Mr Ns credit file after six years,
but the payment arrangement and arrears would show for six years from the last payment
Mr N made, I think its more likely than not Mr N wouldve chosen to default his account
during the call in September 2020. I say this as this wouldve meant his credit file would be
clear of any adverse information reported by Very sooner. And, hed have the added benefit
of his balance being written off. Im aware Very says its not its process to tell consumers
this. And whilst this may be the case, I think, given Mr Ns clear priority, it shouldve told him
in this situation.
I acknowledge Verys point that a default will have a more significant effect on a credit file
than just arrears. However, Mr N already had other defaults with other accounts he held
elsewhere. Its clear his credit file was not in a good state. So, I think the overall effect
wouldve been negligible. And Mr Ns priority was to have nothing showing as adverse on his
credit file as soon as possible. His account defaulting in 2020 wouldve achieved this.
Had Very defaulted the account in 2020, this wouldve disappeared from Mr Ns credit file
entirely six years after it had defaulted. This wouldve been around four years earlier than all
record of his arrears and the payment arrangement which Mr N ultimately agreed to. If this
had been clearly explained to Mr N, I think its likely he wouldve agreed to the account being
defaulted in 2020. So I currently think Very should put him back in this position.
I explained that to put matters right, my current thoughts were as follows:
Im currently minded to tell Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to rework Mr Ns account 
as if it had been defaulted in 2020. Very said when it spoke to Mr N that it wouldve written
off the balance and not asked Mr N to repay this. So, it should also return any payments
Mr N has made since this time with 8% simple interest added from the date the payment was
made to the date its paid to Mr N.
Very should amend Mr Ns credit file to show that the account defaulted in September 2020
and remove any record of the arrears and payment arrangement after this.
Given that the balance will be written off, and this will be of benefit to Mr N, Im not going to
ask it to make a payment for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
I invited both parties to provide any further responses to my provisional decision before 
10 October 2022. Mr N didnt respond. Very responded and it agreed to backdate the default 
to September 2020. However, it didnt think that payments made since then should be 
refunded. It explained then when an account is defaulted, the debt still exists and payments 
can be made to it. If the default debt were cleared, it would show as satisfied. Very said that 
it was Mr Ns choice not to have the default at the time and to continue making payments. 
Ive decided to proceed with my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the new points that Very has made. My reasons for upholding this complaint 
was that I didnt think Very had made it clear what would happen if Mr N did choose to have 
his account defaulted. I thought, had it done so, Mr N wouldve chosen to default the 
account. And I remain of this opinion for the reasons already given.
However, I do accept Verys point that the debt would still exist even if the account defaulted. 
I cant know whether Mr N wouldve continued to make payments to his account after the 
default. But I am aware that his priority was improving his credit file. And having the amount 
owing on the default, or it eventually showing as satisfied, would go some way towards 
achieving this. I also note that during his calls to Very, Mr N made a number of references to 
wanting to pay what he owed. So I dont think the continued payments hes made have been 
to his detriment. And based on this, Im not going to ask Very to refund the payments hes 
made since September 2020 as I said I intended to in my provisional decision. 
However, my provisional decision also explained that I wasnt going to make an award in 
relation to the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused due to the fact that I was 
asking Very to refund payments Mr N had made. As I am no longer requiring Very to do this, 
Ive thought about this aspect again. 
I think that by Very not explaining the impact of the arrangement plan instead of a default 
has caused Mr N unnecessary upset. Hes since found out that his credit file will be affected 
for longer than he was led to believe would be the case and spent time trying to resolve this. 
Because of this, I think Very should make a payment of compensation to reflect the impact 
this has had. Our Investigator recommended £150, and I agree that this is a fair amount in 
the circumstances and its in line with what I wouldve awarded.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to: 
rework Mr Ns account as if it had been defaulted in 2020. This should take into 
account any payments Mr N has made since.  
amend Mr Ns credit file to show that the account defaulted in September 2020 and 
remove any record of the arrears and payment arrangement after this.
Pay Mr N £150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman