DRN-2583051
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as A complains that Barclays Bank Plc caused unnecessary 
delays in providing a Bounce Back Loan.
 
As director, Mr K, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
A applied for a Bounce Back Loan on 4 May 2020. The application was accepted by 
Barclays the same day.
 
On 6 May Mr K contacted Barclays because he was unhappy the funds hadnt been received 
yet. Mr K thought the delay was unacceptable, so he complained. Barclays explained it was 
experiencing a technical error, which was the cause of the delay. The Bounce Back Loan 
was then drawn down on 13 May.
 
Mr K remained unhappy. He said the funds should have been available the next working 
day. But hed had to spend hours on the phone chasing an update and been mis-informed 
about when hed receive the funds.
 
Barclays upheld As complaint. It recognised the delay in providing the funds and apologised 
for the inconvenience. Barclays said there was a technical error affecting applications made 
on 4 May, which had since been rectified. In recognition of the inconvenience caused, 
Barclays arranged to pay A £75 compensation.
 
Mr K remained unhappy, so he referred As complaint to our service. He felt A had been lied 
to by Barclays. Mr K said that hed been unable to take other calls while on the phone to 
Barclays  meaning A had lost out on work.
An investigator here considered what happened. He thought Barclays had done enough to 
resolve the complaint. In summary, he said:
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme was designed to enable businesses to access 
finance quickly during the coronavirus pandemic. While there were no set timescales, 
applications were expected to be assessed within a matter of days;
 
The unprecedented demand for borrowing under the Scheme wouldve meant 
Barclays faced its own operational challenges;
There was nothing to suggest A had lost out as a direct result of Barclays actions; 
and
While A had been inconvenienced, keeping in mind the volume of applications 
Barclays had received, the delays werent significant. On that basis, £75 
compensation was fair and reasonable.   
Mr K disagreed with the investigator. He said the Bounce Back Loan was designed to be 
drawn down quickly, but that hadnt happened. He said A had suffered losses as a result of 
the delay.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Due to a technical issue with Barclays system, As application experienced unnecessary 
delays. A was entitled to expect the funds to be provided within 24 hours once the 
application had been approved, in line with the expectations under the Scheme rules. But it 
took a little longer  nine days  for A to receive the funds. Barclays hasnt disputed that this 
was an error on its part.
 
The issue seems to have been with the Bounce Back Loan application form within Barclays 
online banking. Theres no reason for me to doubt what Barclays has said here and, while 
its not ideal that something went wrong, I dont think the issue was down to anything 
deliberate or intentional. Rather, I think Barclays has put forward a reasonable explanation 
and has acknowledged the service it provided couldve been better.
Barclays contact notes show it sent messages to Mr K shortly after As application was 
approved to explain there was a delay. Ive seen it also attempted to call Mr K to provide an 
update. So while Barclays may not always have responded as quickly or as often as A 
wouldve liked, I dont think it ignored the issue.
Ive noted Mr Ks concerns that when he did speak to Barclays, the bank lied to him about 
what was happening. I dont think theres sufficient evidence to support that. Barclays has 
said its front-line staff werent aware of the problem causing the delay at the time, and its 
apologised for any incorrect information A was given. I accept Barclays explanation for what 
happened here, particularly bearing in mind that the Scheme had only just been launched 
when A had applied.
Its clear that the delay caused Mr K some concern and put A to some inconvenience. Mr K 
says he spent up to 20 hours on the phone to find out what was happening with As 
application. Ive seen that Mr K did call Barclays regularly. Barclays contact notes show he 
called 12 times between As application being accepted and the Bounce Back Loan being 
drawn down. Mr K says that as a result of the time spent on the phone to Barclays, he 
couldnt take calls for A that wouldve provided it with work. So hed like A to receive £5,000 
compensation for lost revenue, £1,000 for the inconvenience and £2,000 in lost contracts, as 
well as a written apology.
  
I accept that Mr K had to chase Barclays, but the evidence I have suggests much less time 
was spent on the phone than 20 hours. The records Ive seen suggest this was more likely in the region of three hours. In any case, while I accept that Mr K wouldnt have been able to 
take calls while on the phone with Barclays, I dont think the issue wouldve prevented him 
from doing so at other times over the period in question. And he hasnt provided any 
evidence to show that A suffered the losses hes claimed, or that these were caused by the 
delay in receiving the Bounce Back Loan. So I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to 
compensate A for these amounts.
Its right that A is compensated for the inconvenience it was put to in chasing things up. But 
taking everything into account, I think the £75 compensation that Barclays has already paid 
is fair - so I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman