DRN-3260109
The complaint
Mr G complains about Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) declining a claim for damage to his 
vehicle (a camper van) under his commercial motor insurance policy. Mr G brought the 
complaint to this service as the owner of the van. This decision refers to Mr G throughout. 
Allianz uses agents to administer the policy, references to Allianz in this decision include 
those agents.
What happened
Mr G had a camper van (van) that he hired out in August 2020 through a third-party booking 
agent. Unfortunately, the van broke down while the hirer was driving it and was recovered to 
a garage, where it was found that the engine had seized. Mr G contacted Allianz to lodge a 
claim for the damage, believing it was due to the way that the van had been driven by the 
hirer. Allianz asked Mr G to provide various details about the van, including service history 
and the condition of the van prior to the incident. Based on information provided by Mr G and 
the nature of the incident, Allianz concluded that the cause of the damage was likely to be 
mechanical failure. As this was an exclusion under Mr Gs policy, Allianz declined his claim.
Unhappy at the decline of his claim, Mr G had the vehicle inspected by the company that 
had fitted a replacement engine to the van a few years before the incident. Having inspected 
the engine they concluded that the cause of the engine seizure was lack of lubrication, 
combined with the van being driven in that condition. Mr G told Allianz that this showed that 
the cause was driver error. While he understood that the policy didnt cover mechanical 
failure, he maintained that the failure could have been avoided had the hirer driven with care 
and attention.
Based on this, Mr G complained to Allianz. They considered his complaint but didnt uphold 
it, confirming their decision to decline his claim. Allianz said that the damage had been 
caused by a mechanical or electrical failure in the van. They again referred to the policy 
exclusion that meant they werent liable for mechanical breakdown or breakages.
Mr G then complained to this service. He was unhappy at Allianz declining his claim and that 
they hadnt given it enough consideration. He said the van was in good working order and 
had a new engine fitted quite recently before being rented out. He wanted Allianz to accept 
his claim and to reimburse him for the costs he said hed incurred because of the incident.
Our investigator concluded that Allianz hadnt acted fairly. He concluded that on balance the 
evidence from Mr Gs engineers was that the engine failed due to a lack of oil/lubrication and 
that the camper van was in good working order before it was driven when hired out. The 
investigator also noted that the camper van had recently passed its MOT test and that the 
engine was relatively new. He concluded that the hirer of the van was at fault and as such, 
the cause was driver error and so Allianz should settle Mr Gs claim. 
Allianz disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said that it was impossible for the camper van to have lost the amount of oil 
required to have caused the engine damage in the distance that the camper van was driven 
before the damage occurred. They also noted that an MOT test didnt include any 
mechanical checks to the vehicle engine and that the engine having been replaced recently 
didnt make it less susceptible to failure. They also referred to an engineers report that 
indicated the damage wasnt the result of insufficient engine oi, so the mechanical failure 
wasnt caused by driver error.
In my findings, I disagreed with the investigators view that Allianz hadnt acted fairly in 
declining Mr Gs claim. Having looked at the evidence and the differing views on the cause 
of the engine seizing, I wasnt persuaded there was sufficient evidence to support Mr Gs 
view that driver error caused the damage.
I also looked at the exclusion used by Allianz to decline the claim. I concluded that the 
exclusion wasnt contingent on the cause of the failure. Rather it was the fact of the failure, 
breakdown or breakage that was important. So, I concluded Allianz acted fairly in declining 
Mr Gs claim and so they werent liable for the associated costs incurred by Mr G.
Because my findings and conclusions differed from the investigators view, I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint. 
The key issue in Mr Gs complaint is that Allianz acted unfairly in declining his claim for 
damage to his van while it was being driven by the hirer.  Mr G maintains that the cause was 
the hirer driving the vehicle with insufficient oil/lubricant, causing the engine to seize. For 
their part, Allianz say that the damage wasnt caused by driver error and that mechanical 
failure was the cause of the damage. As mechanical failure is an exclusion under the policy, 
they maintain they acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the evidence provided in support of those 
views, including the reports of the various engineers and garages. While the report from the 
company that fitted Mr Gs replacement engine concluded that a lack of lubrication was the 
cause of the engine seizure, Ive noted that a report from the specialist garage to which the 
van was taken after the incident in August 2020 states that they cannot see an obvious 
reason for the engine seizing, and that The engine is on the minimum line for oil level which 
is acceptable. The oil is full of metallic particles which suggests bearings have worn. For 
their part, Allianz have said that this could indicate that wear and tear led to the engine 
seizing (wear and tear is also an exclusion under the policy).
 
But while the reports and evidence dont point to a clear, agreed cause of the engine seizing, 
what isnt in dispute is the damage occurred (the engine seized).
 
Mr G maintains that the damage was caused by driver error. While he understood that the 
policy didnt cover mechanical failure, he maintained that the failure could have been 
avoided had the hirer driven with care and attention. However, Ive also noted that, from a 
record of a discussion with the hirer, Allianz said they told them that they drove the van in 
accordance with the guidelines provided by Mr G (indicating they fell they did nothing wrong 
while driving the van, before it broke down). Having looked at all the evidence and 
representations, together with the differing views on the exact cause of the engine seizing, 
Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to support Mr Gs view that driver error 
caused the damage.Given that cause of the damage is not clear, Ive gone on to consider whether the damage 
(however caused) would be covered under the terms of Mr Gs policy. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the policy, particularly given Allianzs view that a policy exclusion 
applies in the circumstances of the incident and Mr Gs subsequent claim. The exclusion 
cited by Allianz is set out as Exclusion 1D under Section B  Damage and states:
We shall not be liable to pay for mechanical, electrical electronic or computer 
failures or breakdowns or breakages.
In their case notes referring to their declining the claim, Allianz also said that the damage 
was caused by mechanical failure, whether through misuse of the hirer or not. And that the 
intention of the policy isnt to cover damage of this type, so the exclusion applies. 
Ive looked carefully at the exclusion, alongside the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, and I agree with this view. The exclusion isnt contingent on the cause of the failure, 
breakdown or breakage - so whether the cause was due to an error, omission or failure on 
the part of the hirer of the vehicle isnt relevant. In other words, it doesnt matter how the 
failure, breakdown or breakage occurred  its the fact of the failure, breakdown or breakage 
thats important. So, Ive concluded that Allianz have acted fairly in declining Mr Gs claim.
As Ive concluded that Allianz have acted fairly in declining Mr Gs claim, Ive also concluded 
that they arent liable for the associated costs of the incident incurred by Mr G.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G responded to make several points. His main points were, first, that he didnt think 
Allianz had taken responsibility for the claim, acted remotely and the process took too long. 
Mr G felt this was unfair to him. Second, that it was unfair that mechanical failure wasnt 
covered where his vehicle was rented out in perfect working order and the hirer wasnt held 
accountable for (in Mr Gs view) over-revving the engine and driving recklessly. Third, Mr G 
didnt agree that driver error wasnt responsible and questioned what the provisional decision 
said about the failure not being the result of insufficient engine oil, or that it wouldnt be 
possible to lose the amount of engine oil in the distance travelled to lead to the engine 
seizing. Fourth, that Allianz hadnt properly assessed the claim, hadnt inspected the vehicle 
or carried out their own review and instead carried out a desktop review.
Allianz confirmed that they received the provisional decision but didnt provide any 
substantive comments on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I recognize this 
will be disappointing to Mr G, so Ill set out why Ive come to this view. Ive summarized 
above what I see as the main points made by Mr G but I want to reassure him that Ive 
considered all the points he made in responding to my provisional decision.
Mr Gs first point is the time taken by Allianz to assess his claim and the way that they did 
so. Ive looked again at the timeline of events following the breakdown in August 2020, 
through to Allianzs final response (in March 2021) that didnt uphold his complaint and 
confirmed their decision to decline the complaint. From the breakdown to Allianzs initial rejection of the claim took just over two months. Further time was taken obtaining a further  
engineers report and for Allianz considering it, along with other information. While I can 
understand Mr Gs frustration at the length of time, given the complexities involved I dont 
think Allianz acted unreasonably in requesting further evidence to inform their decision and 
then reviewing it.
Looking at the second and third issues (as they are closely linked) I can again understand 
Mr Gs view that it was the actions of the hirer that caused the breakdown. However, having 
considered the evidence on this point, I still think that it doesnt provide a clear reason for the 
engine seizing. In particular, the report from the first garage where the vehicle was taken 
doesnt point to a clear cause and that the engine oil level was at the minimum (acceptable) 
level. The indications from the hirer are they didnt do anything wrong when driving the 
vehicle. While Mr G takes a different view, I still dont think the evidence is persuasive that 
its the case that the hirer was at fault. On Mr Gs point questioning the provisional decision 
points about engine oil sufficiency, this was based on the comment noted above from the 
garage where the vehicle was initially taken. So, Ive not changed my view on these points.
On Mr Gs fourth point, while Allianz didnt inspect the vehicle themselves, the evidence is 
that their engineers considered the reports and other evidence available from the garages 
and engineers that did. I dont think thats unreasonable, as Id expect insurers to use their 
own experts to evaluate the evidence from other experts and to use this to reach decisions 
on claims. And if theres doubt or uncertainty, to ask for further inspection/reports (which is 
what happened in this case). So again, I havent changed my views on this point.
Taking all these considerations into account, I havent changed my view not to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman