DRN-3973896
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Truly Independent Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Ill firstly say that Mr C was also advised by Truly Independent at the same time as Mrs C. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaints separately, but I have referred to both of their 
circumstances regularly in this decision because of how they were given advice. 
Mr C approached Truly Independent in August 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. He had been referred to Truly Independent as his existing adviser was unable to give 
him advice about pension planning and he wanted his pension arrangements reviewed. 
Truly Independent completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs and Mrs Cs 
circumstances and objectives. This showed that: 
Mr C was aged 53, married and living with his wife who was 50. They had two young 
dependent children. 
Mr C was on a career break and Mrs C had recently been made redundant (from the 
same employer). So, they both had no income at the time of advice. 
They did have savings of £80,000 in cash, £100,000 in investments and a £24,000 
savings policy that was due to mature in the near future. 
Their expenditure was recorded as being £1,950 a month. 
Mr Cs DB scheme benefits had been built up over 25 years service. The transfer value at 
the time of advice was £406,577. 
Truly Independent also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it said was 
balanced. 
On 19 February 2018, Truly Independent advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds into one of the new pension providers managed 
portfolios which it said met his attitude to risk.  
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr and Mrs C both intended to live off their savings until they could access their 
pensions at age 55 and then retire.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think the death benefits that the DB scheme offered would meet 
their needs. 
Mr C wanted flexibility in the way benefits were paid, especially as theyd had 
children later in life.
And he wanted to take advantage of what he thought was a higher transfer value.
Mr C complained in March 2022 to Truly Independent about the suitability of the transfer 
advice because:
He should have been advised to stay in his DB scheme. The transfer was 
unnecessary and exposed him to risk. 
It wasnt suitable for him and he didnt have the capacity to take losses on this 
pension. His risk profile wasnt properly assessed.
It wasnt financially viable.
He gave up important and valuable guaranteed death benefits.
Truly Independent didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that it looked into Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances in detail at the time of advice. They had both worked in financial services for 
many years and were experienced investors. The transfer met their requirements for early 
retirement and flexibility and the death benefits were greater. The DB scheme only partially 
met their early retirement needs. It had not treated Mr C unfairly or given him unsuitable 
advice.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Truly Independent pay compensation. He said that Mr C was now likely 
to receive a lower level of benefits than he would have if he had remained in the DB scheme. 
And that Truly Independent failed to highlight the death benefits he was giving up. He could 
have met his need for flexibility with his existing arrangements. 
Truly Independent disagreed, but it didnt provide any further arguments or evidence for me 
to consider. 
The investigator didnt change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Truly Independent's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Truly 
Independent should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Truly Independent carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the 
regulator, showing how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Mr C was 53 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between the ages of 55 and 60. 
The TVAS said the critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 60 was 12.81% if 
he took a full pension and 9.08% if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension. The critical 
yield to match the benefits at age 55 was quoted as 36.62% per year if Mr C took a full 
pension and 10.35% per year if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.5% for one year to retirement and 3.3% for six years to retirement. Ive kept in mind 
that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
In the suitability letter Truly Independent said about the 12.81% critical yield that This, in my 
opinion, is not an achievable return, based on the term to retirement.   I agree with this, an 
assumed growth of over 12% is far higher than what it would be reasonable to assume a 
higher risk investment would provide over this term. And at age 55 this figure rose to over 
30% which is almost certain not to be achievable. 
And Mr C wasnt a high-risk investor. I can accept that he was knowledgeable about financial 
matters, and he had some investment experience. He also had some capacity to bear 
losses. But hed indicated he had a balanced to risk for the DB transfer, not a high one.There would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was around 9%, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with his attitude to risk. 
Truly Independent has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr C wouldve been 
able to meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered that Truly 
Independents models show that the fund could last past his expected life expectancy. But, 
as Truly Independent will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance 
and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more 
realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.
And the TVAS showed that the fund required to purchase the pension Mr C was giving up 
was £942,380 if he took a full pension at age 60 and £530,646 if he took tax free cash and a 
lower pension. There are other amounts shown, but they essentially give the same 
information. These are higher amounts than it would be reasonable to expect his transferred 
out fund to grow to. And they give a revealing insight into the cost of the benefits he was 
giving up.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Truly 
Independent has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons that Truly Independent advised that Mr C should transfer was 
because of the flexibility he could have with how he took his benefits. The information from 
the time of sale says that Mr and Mrs C essentially wanted to retire at age 50. They would 
then start to take benefits from the personal pension as soon as possible, maybe at age 55, 
and use these funds to live off until their state retirement age. When they may start to 
withdraw a lower amount.  
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs C wanted an income of £30,000 to £35,000 per year. But 
this seems to have been based on what they thought was the likely return from their funds. 
The fact find shows they were spending around £24,000 each year so they would need at 
least this. And they did have a young family so their income and expenditure needs would be 
likely to increase over time, in the medium term at least. 
And at Mr Cs normal retirement date of 60, which was around six years time, he could 
receive a pension of £16,246. Or he could take a lower pension of £11,669 plus a tax free 
lump sum of £77,798.
At Mrs Cs age 60, in around ten years time, it was estimated that she would receive a 
pension of £19,400 a year. Or she could take a reduced income of £13,935 and a lump sum 
of £92,904. 
And at age 55, in around 18 months, Mr C could receive an annual pension of £9,351 or a 
tax free lump sum of £45,827 plus a reduced annual pension of £6,874. 
And in time they would receive their state pensions of around £8,500 each. And Mr and Mrs C had savings and investments of about £200,000. This looks to be enough 
to meet their current expenditure for around nine or so years. But Mr C wouldve received his 
DB scheme pension in six years time at the latest, which would reduce the amount they 
would need to take from their savings. So, I dont think its unreasonable to say that Mr and 
Mrs C could have used their existing funds to bridge the gap between the time of advice, 
and taking benefits from their respective DB schemes.
I accept that they may not have been able to withdraw the £35,000 each year that Truly 
Independent says they wanted. But this figure wasnt based on their actual needs anyway. It 
was based on what they thought they could receive. 
I think a reasonable way to look at this situation was that Mr and Mrs Cs current 
arrangements already gave them a significant amount of flexibility. They had enough to pay 
their expenses for a significant number of years. And so, they could have decided when to 
take the benefits from their DB schemes, and maximised the amount of income or tax free 
cash they would receive. 
And I think a guaranteed and increasing income would have been important to them. It could 
have met their living expenses while their children grew up and met their retirements needs. 
And if, later on, Mr and Mrs C ended up with a surplus amount of income they could invest or 
save this in a tax efficient way, such as a trust arrangement for their children. 
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs C required any further flexibility in retirement. This is because, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think they had a genuine need to access their tax 
free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave their funds invested until 
a later date. I think they could have met their need for a variable income through their 
existing arrangements.  
So, Im satisfied Mr C could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The point of sale information is clear that 
Mr C was concerned about what he said was the low death benefits the DB scheme offered.
The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive 
feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension 
because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
Truly Independent explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr C predeceased them. I dont think 
Truly Independent made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr C. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Truly Independent should not 
have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.Furthermore, if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Truly Independent shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
It seems that Truly Independent did look at whole of life policies. But this looks to have been 
after the advice was given and the quotes Ive seen are very expensive. And if Mr C did see 
these, I dont think they would be a balanced way of presenting this option to him.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Cs pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr C wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse or children, which 
could be a lot less than this if he lived a long life or if investment returns were poor. So, the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr C how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
family. And this couldve been explored on term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot 
cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Cs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. I dont think that 
Mr C had an interest in managing his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this 
was a genuine objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from 
his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Truly Independent recommended that Mr C invest in an equity-based portfolio. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr C, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr C should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But Truly Independent 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. The potential for higher death benefits and gaining some 
perceived flexibility wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Truly Independent shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against Truly 
Independent's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Truly Independents advice. I say this because Mr C was an investor with a balanced attitude to risk, but the personal pension needed 
higher returns, and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if 
Truly Independent had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the DB schemes death benefits were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
Truly Independent had explained that Mr C could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr C 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Truly Independent should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Truly Independent also pay Mr C £200 for the distress 
caused by the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr C has been caused distress and 
concern in relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have 
happened but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Truly Independents unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mr C would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Truly Independent must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, although I understand Mr C is now retired, I think he would have taken the 
benefits from his DB scheme at age 60 if he was advised properly. So, compensation should 
be based on his schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Truly Independent may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Truly Independent receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Truly Independent to 
pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Truly Independent to carry out a calculation in line with 
the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Truly Independent should also pay Mr C £200 for the distress caused by the unsuitable 
advice. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Truly Independent 
Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I would additionally require
Truly Independent Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require Truly 
Independent Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Truly Independent Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Truly Independent 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman