DRN-2101329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Mortgage Express applied arrears fees that did not reflect the 
true cost of the arrears to it and were unfairly imposed during a time when they were 
experiencing hardship. They say that interest should not be applied to the fees.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with Mortgage Express. They experienced some arrears on 
their mortgage  and Mortgage Express applied arrears fees. Mr and Mrs P say the fees 
were unfair because they didnt reflect the true cost to Mortgage Express and added to the 
hardship they experienced at the time.
Our investigator said that we could only consider the fairness of arrears fees applied from 
October 2013 as any applied before that were out of time for us to consider under our rules.
The investigator thought that Mortgage Express should refund seven out of the eleven 
arrears fees it had applied. She said that the fees werent proportionate bearing in mind that 
Mr and Mrs P were still making payments and the arrears were reducing over time.
Mortgage Express said the arrears fee was applied when there are arrears equivalent to one 
monthly payment, in line with the terms and conditions and tariff of charges. The amount of 
work doesnt change if the arrears balance is higher or lower  it will always try and contact 
any customers who are in arrears to try and reach an arrangement, where no fees would be 
charged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I can look at
It has been accepted by all parties that I can only look at arrears fees applied from October 
2013  any fees applied before that are out of time and the business hasnt consented to us 
looking at fees applied before that.
Arrears fees
I accept that Mortgage Express has applied the fees in line with its terms and conditions of 
the account when it was in arrears. Under the relevant rules, lenders are allowed to apply 
fees when an account is in arrears. While Mortgage Express might be permitted to apply 
arrears fees in the way it has, it is not always going to be fair and reasonable for it to do so in 
the individual circumstances of a case. So I am deciding what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
There were eleven arrears fees applied during the period in question. But Mr and Mrs P 
were largely making the contractual monthly payment each month  albeit late, without a 
payment arrangement agreed with Mortgage Express and with some exceptions. Although I 
cant consider what happened before October 2013, I can see that Mr and Mrs P had 
experienced a period of arrears immediately before the time I am looking at here.
While the level of arrears fluctuated, it was never more than one payment in arrears by the 
end of the month and Mr and Mrs P had largely made a payment equivalent to the 
contractual monthly payment during the period in question. So while I agree that it was 
reasonable for Mortgage Express to attempt to contact Mr and Mrs P to try and reach a 
payment arrangement, I dont consider it was entirely reasonable for it to apply its standard 
procedure in every month that Mr and Mrs P were behind because of the circumstances 
here. 
In view of what Mortgage Express knew about Mr and Mrs Ps situation it ought to have seen 
that it was likely Mr and Mrs P were paying as much as they could  and that amount was 
usually as much as they were required to pay each month. Their situation was not 
deteriorating, and they eventually cleared the arrears. And Mortgage Express knew they had 
experienced a relatively long period of financial difficulty before this period of arrears. While I 
can see some attempted contact by Mortgage Express, it was not in every month that the 
account was in arrears. Overall, I dont consider it was fair or reasonable for Mortgage 
Express to apply arrears fees each month. 
It was reasonable for Mortgage Express to attempt to make contact when no payment was 
received and there is likely to have been some underlying work it carried out in view of the 
arrears. I also think the returned direct debit fees are reasonable in the overall 
circumstances here. But I agree with the investigator that, looking at the position overall, Mr 
and Mrs Ps circumstances, the level of payments and arrears, and the amount of attempted 
contact by Mortgage Express it would be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances 
of the complaint to refund seven of the eleven charges applied from October 2013, with 
interest. 
Putting things right
Ive found that not all of the arrears fees have been applied fairly in the circumstances of this 
complaint. But the investigator has included interest on the fees. I think this is fair. But it 
means I must decide which specific fees should be refunded. My decision was intended to 
reflect the situation overall  over the period of 18 months where the arrears fees were 
applied. I think a refund of around 64% of those fees (seven out of eleven) is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint for the reasons set out above and in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. But I still need to decide which arrears fees should be 
refunded as interest is to be added. I think the below is a reasonable way to decide that, in 
the circumstances here.
It was reasonable to apply the arrears fee in October 2013 in view of the level of arrears. 
After clearing the arrears in November 2013, the persistent arrears began in June 2014. I 
think it was reasonable for Mortgage Express to contact Mr and Mrs P at that time to try and 
establish their circumstances and to reach a payment arrangement. So I think the arrears 
fees In June, July and August 2014 can stand. My final decision
My final decision is that Mortgage Express should refund the following arrears fees of £40:
September, October, November, December 2014, January, February, March 2015.
And pay interest on those amounts at the mortgage interest rate that applied from date each 
fee was applied until date the mortgage was repaid and then at 8% simple per year from the 
date the mortgage was repaid until date of settlement. 
If Mortgage Express consider it must deduct tax from any part of the interest award, it should 
tell Mr and Mrs P if it has made a deduction for income tax and if so, how much its taken off, 
and provide a tax deduction certificate for the consumer if asked to do so. This will allow Mr 
and Mrs P to reclaim the tax from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs if they are entitled to 
do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman