DRN-3951337
The complaint
Mr H has complained about charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) under a hire agreement.
What happened
Mr H entered into a three-year hire agreement with MBFS for a new car in June 2019. 
Rentals were around £320 per month.  
The agreement was due to reach maturity in June 2022, and I understand Mr H arranged for 
an inspection to be carried out in September 2022. And another inspection was carried out a 
few days later. MBFS wrote to Mr H to say he owed £686.47 in damage charges for:
Bumper front scratched - £210
Door aperture seal right hand front scuffed - £76.75
Steering column shroud lower air freshener damage - £30.50
Tyre left hand rear incorrect speed rating - £149.22
Wheel left hand front spoke damaged - £110
Wheel left hand rear rim damaged - £110
Mr H complained about the charges, and the inspection. MBFS said the initial inspection was 
to identify the overall condition of the car and the following one was to establish charges in 
line with its vehicle return standards. And it gave Mr H a link to its standards. 
MBFS said following a review it would remove the charge for the door aperture seal scuff. 
But it didnt uphold the complaint in relation to how the collection was handled. 
Mr H continued to correspond with MBFS about his complaint, and he referred it to our 
service to consider. I understand MBFS offered Mr H £100 compensation by way of a 
reduction in the invoice for the damage. In summary, Mr H said:
He returned the car in almost perfect condition. 
He made sure it was repaired at his own cost. 
The charges were excessive and inaccurate. 
MBFS had charged for a new tyre and kept the old one. 
MBFS caused stress and accused him of lying. 
The car was handed back with lower mileage than the contract terms. 
MBFS should drop all charges. 
Our investigator looked into things. He thought MBFS should also remove the charge for the 
air freshener damage. MBFS agreed, but Mr H didnt. He said hed spent nearly £1,000 
getting the car ready to go back. He said there was no damage to the front bumper and that 
the scuffs didnt go down to the base paint. He also said he didnt know the tyre he fitted 
wasnt suitable
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was supplied under a regulated consumer hire agreement. Our service can consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The car was new when it was supplied to Mr H, so I think its reasonable to assume it was 
supplied free from even minor defects. Therefore, any damage that was on the car when it 
was returned wouldve likely happened during the time it was with Mr H. 
The hire agreement Mr H entered into with MBFS said when it was time for him to hand back 
the car, he needed to return it in line with MBFS vehicle return standards. The agreement 
goes on to detail those standards. And it also says if the vehicle has not been returned within 
those standards MBFS is able to charge costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the 
vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as 
compensation. So as a starting point, I dont think its unfair for MBFS to charge Mr H for 
damage that is outside of its return standards. 
Ive thought about the damage MBFS says is chargeable. Ive also considered what the 
vehicle return standards say for those types of damage. 
Bumper front scratched - £210
For scratches, the returns standards say light surface scratches not through the top coat 
which can be removed by polishing or touch up are acceptable. But any chipping or 
scratching of paintwork thats penetrated the base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any 
kind which cant be polished out isnt acceptable. 
Both inspections have highlighted the front bumper was scratched. And looking at the 
photos, I can see damage that appears to have gone through the top coat. Therefore, I dont 
find I have the grounds to direct MBFS to remove this charge. And I dont find the £210 
charge unreasonable. 
I appreciate Mr H has said he paid a body shop to resolve issues before handing the car 
back and that hes unhappy the damage was missed. Hes also said the damage shouldnt 
have been an issue if it even existed. I can understand why hes unhappy if he paid to have 
this sort of damage fixed. I accept you cant see the exact depth of the damage on the 
photos. But it looks as though the damage has gone through the top coat and therefore 
penetrated the base. I think its therefore unlikely the damage could be simply polished out 
for example. Im also mindful the damage was highlighted on both inspections, and the 
photos show damage on the bumper. I have to take into account the evidence thats been 
presented, and I dont find Ive seen enough to direct MBFS to remove the charge. 
Tyre left hand rear incorrect speed rating - £149.22
For wheels and tyres the return standards say the vehicle must conform to the original 
specification of the vehicle. The tyres must be matching, and also be of a size and premium 
brand approved by the manufacturer. And it goes on to list some examples of the approved 
brands. 
MBFS has said one of the tyres did not have the correct speed rating. It looks like the tyre 
didnt match the other side. And the make of tyre isnt on MBFS list of approved brands. So I dont find MBFS is acting unfairly by applying the charge. And I dont consider the charge of 
£149.22 to be unreasonable. 
Mr H has said he had no idea about the tyre brands and that he paid a garage to replace it. 
Hes also questioned what would happen to the tyre that was on the car, and that there 
should be some compromise. Again, I can understand why hes disappointed. But I do have 
to bear in mind that the vehicle return standards form part of the agreement Mr H signed. So 
I think MBFS did make him aware of the requirements. Ive also not seen anything in the 
agreement that would indicate the tyre should be returned to Mr H. 
Wheel left hand front spoke damaged - £110
For alloys the return standards say that minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the alloy, 
rim edge or wheel face is acceptable. 
I can see the left hand front spoke or rim is damaged over 25mm. So I dont think the charge 
has been applied unfairly. And I dont consider £110 to be unreasonable. 
Wheel left hand rear rim damaged - £110
I can also see the left hand rear rim is damaged over 25mm. So I dont find MBFS is acting 
unfairly by charging for it. And I dont consider £110 to be unreasonable. 
MBFS has agreed to remove the charge in relation to the damage caused by the air 
freshener. And I agree with our investigator that its not clear the damage cant simply be 
removed. So I also find its fair this charge has been waived. 
Ive noted a comment on the initial inspection that indicates Mr H said he could have got the 
issues fixed himself. But Im mindful he had the chance to do that before the car was handed 
back (and I appreciate hes tried to do that). I cant see anything in the agreement that says 
he should be given another opportunity. And even had he been given that chance, he 
mightve incurred costs by having to arrange another inspection. 
Mr H has also mentioned the car was handed back with less miles than hed paid for. But 
theres nothing in the agreement that allows for a pro-rata refund in that scenario. 
Finally, I can see MBFS agreed to reduce the invoice by £100 for the inconvenience caused 
in relation to what was discussed with the collection agents. I think its fair that it honours this 
offer. I can understand why Mr H was unhappy with the way the response was worded but I 
dont find I have the grounds to direct MBFS to do more.   
Ive got sympathy with Mr H. Hes covered less miles than he could have. On the whole, hes 
looked after the car, and hes still being asked to pay a significant sum. But for the reasons 
given above, Im not going to ask MBFS to remove all the charges. Id suggest Mr H gets in 
touch with MBFS to discuss paying the invoice. And Id remind MBFS to treat Mr H with 
forbearance and due consideration if hes unable to pay it in one go. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-
Benz Finance should remove the £30.50 charge for the damage on the steering column 
shroud and, to the extent its not done so already, reduce the invoice by £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman