DRN-3059913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Northern Bank Limited mis-sold them two mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policies.
What happened
[Mr and Mrs C took out two MPPI policies in 1996 and 2005 along with a mortgage and 
further advance. They paid a monthly amount for the policies. 
The mortgage and advance were in joint names, but Mr C was the person covered by both 
policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because:
I think Northern Bank made Mr and Mrs C aware that they had a choice about buying the 
MPPI, and that they chose to take out the policies. I say this because Northern Bank has 
provided paperwork from both sales showing that the MPPI policies were separate, 
optional products to the mortgage and Mr C has signed agreeing to take them out. 
Northern Bank recommended the MPPI policies to Mr and Mrs C, and they seem to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time
I think Northern Bank couldve explained the cost of the 1996 policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs would still have bought it  given what theyve said 
about the other means they had in place at the time, and the benefit it provided. And for 
the 2005 policy, the cost of the was shown. So, I think they wouldve understood how 
much they would need to pay for it. 
Its possible Northern Bank didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover. But 
Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things  so I dont think that 
better information wouldve affected Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take out the policies. 
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But there are certain types of mortgage agreement this doesnt apply to  one of which is 
whats known as a regulated mortgage. From the information Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008  and so I dont think the 
business have to refund any of the commission they paid on their PPI policies.
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Cs comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion. And for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman