DRN-1558233
The complaint
Mr S complains A. Share & Sons Limited trading as SCS, mis-sold him a sofa warranty.
For ease, I'll refer to SCS in this decision.
What happened
Mr S purchased a sofa and at the same time took out a warranty to cover him for damage to 
it.  Mr S said he was asked if he had pets and when he said he did, he was told he should 
take out the policy as it would cover damage caused by them. Mr S said he thought it was 
quite possible his pets would damage the fabric of the sofa by putting their claws through it, 
so he was persuaded to buy the policy. 
Mr S's pets scratched the sofa, so Mr S made a claim under the policy. He was told by the 
insurer the claim wouldn't be paid, as the policy only covered damage related to stains or 
structural issues. 
Mr S brought a complaint to our service as he thought the warranty had been mis-sold. He 
said he'd been led to believe the policy would cover any damage his pets caused, and he 
had a leaflet which supported this. He said had he known the warranty cover was so limited, 
he wouldn't have taken it out.
Our service put Mr S's concerns to SCS. It responded saying it didn't think the policy had 
been mis-sold. It explained the warranty was sold on a non advised basis so it was Mr S's 
choice to take it out. And, it was the only warranty available at the time Mr S bought his sofa. 
SCS also said leaflets explaining the cover provided by the warranty would have been 
available in store and Mr S was sent full details about the policy to his email address. It 
pointed out the documentation is clear the warranty only covers staining and structural 
damage so it doesn't agree the cover it provided was unclear. SCS also pointed out Mr S 
could have cancelled the policy within the first 14 days if he was unhappy with it.
Mr S didn't agree, he said he didn't receive any information after he agreed to buy the 
warranty and this is supported by the fact he had to go back to the store to ask how to 
claim. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld.  She said she 
couldn't be sure of what Mr S was told when the warranty was sold but thought the policy 
documentation was clear as to the type of cover the warranty provided. She pointed out Mr S 
hadn't been able to provide a copy of the leaflet he said he had which confirmed all pet 
damage was covered. And, she thought it would have been reasonable for Mr S to have 
questioned at the time if he hadn't received any information about the policy and to have 
cancelled it if he was unhappy.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. He said that when he went 
into store to ask how to claim he was told again pet damage was covered, but he could only 
make one claim for it. He questioned why they would have told him how to claim if they didn't 
think it was covered. He reiterated he didn't see any policy documentation and if it was sent, 
it must have gone to his 'junk' folder so he didn't read it. He explained he's since refused to buy a similar warranty where he was told all pet damage was covered as when he looked 
into it, he found that wasn't the case. 
The case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I won't be upholding Mr S's complaint, I'll explain why. 
I'm satisfied the warranty was sold on a non advised basis, meaning Mr S would have been 
provided with information about it and it would have been his decision whether to buy it. 
However, SCS had a responsibility to ensure that Mr S was provided with clear 
enough information about the warranty, which would have allowed him to make an informed 
decision whether it was useful to him.   
Mr S has said he relied on what the sales adviser told him when deciding to take out the 
warranty. SCS has said it no longer has any documented notes between the adviser and 
Mr S from the time of the sale as they have been destroyed in line with its retention policy. It 
has however been able to provide a sample copy of the in store leaflet it said would have 
been available for Mr S to read at the time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The policy does cover some damage by pets, so I can see why the sales adviser may have 
questioned Mr S about pet ownership. The question here however seems to be whether 
Mr S was led to believe that all pet damage was covered or whether it was suggested the 
policy did provide cover for damage caused by pets. 
I think it's more likely than not Mr S was told pet damage was covered, but only in respect of 
the fact the warranty covers staining by pet fluids. The warranty, which is limited in cover, 
was the only one available, so I think its unlikely a sales adviser would have suggested all 
possible damage that could be caused by a pet would be covered under the warranty.  It 
maybe Mr S misunderstood what was explained, but I can't hold SCS responsible for that. 
I've also looked at the sample in store leaflet that was available to Mr S. While, I can't be 
sure this is exactly what Mr S saw, I see no reason to doubt its contents. Mr S has referred 
to having been given a leaflet, so I think its more likely than not he did receive one which 
explained the policy cover. 
The sample leaflet sets out clearly, in bold lettering, under the title 'What's covered?' the 
words "Stains covered" and "Structural Defects covered".  Under each section it then goes 
on to explain what types of incidents the policy would cover. On the reverse side of the 
leaflet it contains some important information about the policy including its exclusions. Under 
the exclusions it lists damage caused by pets (except accidental staining caused by pet 
fluids).
Overall, I think it's more likely than not Mr S was provided with clear enough information 
about the warranty to allow him to make an informed decision whether it was of use to him, 
before he bought it. SCS has said Mr S was sent information about the policy after he bought it, and he had the 
opportunity to cancel it if he was unhappy. It's shown me a screen shot from the warranty 
administrator's system which shows this was sent to Mr S's email address.  Mr S has said he 
doesn't recall receiving this and if it was sent, he didn't read it as it must have gone to his 
junk folder. When considering if the warranty was mis-sold I've concentrated more on the 
information Mr S was given before the sale rather than after it.  So while I accept both parties 
points in this respect, it isn't central to my decision, so I haven't given much weight to it.
Mr S has questioned why the store didn't tell him his claim wouldn't be covered. It wouldn't 
have been for the store to tell Mr S this, it would have been for the insurer of the warranty to 
decide. I don't agree with Mr S's suggestion here that this supports what he asserts he was 
told some years previously. 
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr S's complaint against A. Share & Sons Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman