DRN-3505746
The complaint
Mr G complains about advice he was given by Central (UK) Vehicle Leasing Limited 
(CVLL) regarding early termination of a finance agreement they had brokered for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a regulated hire agreement brokered by CVLL who are 
regulated to carry out the activity complained about. So, our service is able to look into his 
complaint.
Mr G contacted CVLL in October 2020 and asked if they could tell him the cost to terminate 
his agreement. CVLL responded that day advising there would be a cancellation fee of £360 
and Mr G checked that with them. He emailed so to terminate would be £360 only and 
CVLL confirmed correct on the cancellation fee mate.
If CVLL told Mr G something that was false about the termination, and if I thought Mr G 
wouldnt have proceeded with the deal had he not been given that false information, I would 
think the termination had been misrepresented by CVLL and Id ask them to take some 
further action.
I think CVLL should have clarified for Mr G that the cancellation fee was merely a fee they 
would wish to charge if he left the finance agreement, he had with the finance provider, 
early. I cant see they did that until Mr G confirmed his intention to terminate early in early 
December 2020. At that point I think the early termination charges to be paid to the credit 
provider would have been clear.
But, if even if I were to accept that CVLL did misrepresent the deal to Mr G I dont think I 
have sufficient evidence he wouldnt have continued with the early termination of his 
agreement without that advice. I say that because I can see Mr G emailed CVLL on 4 
December 2020 to terminate his agreement and by at least 7 December 2020 CVLL had 
informed him of the need to complete an early settlement quote form to submit to the 
creditor. On 14 December 2020 after email exchanges with CVLL in which they explained 
the cancellation charge and separate early settlement costs from the creditor, Mr G sent 
them the early settlement quotation form and I think that suggests that he did proceed 
regardless of any false information CVLL may have provided. So, I dont think the early 
settlement was misrepresented to Mr G.
Mr G says he entered into a new contract for a new car in December 2020 as a result of 
thinking he could settle his previous agreement for £360. I havent been provided with details 
of this new agreement and I think its likely that it was agreed after Mr G was reasonably 
made aware settlement would be more expensive than he may have thought (early 
December 2020). 
Even if Im wrong about that I dont think there was enough information in CVLLs October 
2020 email to persuade me that a reasonable person would expect to only pay £360 to end 
the agreement early. I think the email was ambiguous as it said Mr G was correct on the 
cancellation fee but didnt clarify if any other fees were involved. 
I dont therefore think CVLL have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take 
any further action.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman