DRN-3685660
The complaint
Ms H has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund £118.80 for a transaction on 
her credit card she didnt authorise.
What happened
Ms H bought virus protection for her laptop in 2017. She paid £22.80. She paid this amount 
the following year. She also paid the same supplier (who Ill call T) in 2019. Ms H then 
stopped using her own laptop as she got one from work.
Ms H discovered shed paid T in 2020 for £118.80 and 2021 in £142.80. She complained to 
Nationwide. Nationwide told her as shed made previous transactions to T, her complaint for 
the payment in 2021 didnt fall under the chargeback rules. The 2020 payment couldnt be 
reclaimed as it was outside of the time limits for chargeback.
Separately T refunded £142.80 to Ms H.
Ms H was dissatisfied and brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt  despite Ms Hs denials  that shed signed up to a free trial which then 
meant shed signed up to a subscription service. This meant Ms H had authorised the 
payments she disputed.
Ms H denied this was the case and asked her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The main issue at the centre of this dispute is Ms Hs conviction she didnt sign up to any 
agreement with T. I dont dispute this is Ms Hs understanding. Our investigator got in touch 
with T. They confirmed Ms H signed up to a free trial and then agreed a price for a further 
virus protection service. Ms H accepts she did this in 2017. Ive seen T emailed Ms H in 
2018 and 2019 to confirm shed received the same discount.
After that date Ms H no longer held her own laptop and doesnt believe she received any 
further emails. That may well be the case but in fact I believe its most likely T did email her 
and confirm prices for their service in 2020 and 2021. If they did this in 2018 and 2019, I see 
no reason why they wouldnt do the same in 2020 and 2021.
I also believe Ms H did sign up to Ts service. I accept she may believe that was done in an 
underhand manner, but she did accept their terms and conditions as shes confirmed for the 
period whilst she had her own laptop. I suspect its more likely Ms H didnt notice later 
emails, nor did she contact T proactively to cancel the agreement she had with them for 
continuing services.
We do expect financial institutions to consider the chargeback rules when dealing with 
customers complaints about recurring  or continuous authority  transactions. Nationwide 
did this here. They noted correctly Ms H had a pre-existing relationship with T which limited 
their ability to refund £142.80 under the chargeback rules. By the time Ms H raised her 
complaint about the 2020 payment, the timescale had expired for Nationwide to be able to 
dispute that payment under the chargeback rules.
It is not my role to question the chargeback rules themselves. I review whether financial 
institutions applied these correctly. I am satisfied Nationwide did this here. According to the 
evidence weve seen from T, Ms H did hold a pre-existing relationship with them. Theres 
also no dispute Nationwide could not refund the payment for £118.80 as this fell outside of 
the timescale of the chargeback rules.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Hs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman