DRN-1752144
 
Complaint
Miss V says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
secured loan.
What happened
Miss V took out a PPI policy with a further advance on her mortgage in 2006. Miss V paid for 
the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her 
repayments in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Vs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided that Miss Vs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, Miss Vs documents displayed the PPI as an optional extra, and didnt 
say or imply that she had to take it. And by the time of this sale, Miss V had already been 
given a mortgage without PPI, which wouldve indicated to her that she didnt have to buy a 
policy to get her secured lending. Miss V signed and submitted an application specifically for 
PPI, separately to applying for the loan itself  the policy was not part and parcel of the 
lending. Similarly, she set up a direct debit to pay for the PPI separately to paying the loan. 
Her loan offer then reiterated that she didnt have to buy any insurance from Lloyds if she 
didnt want to, and described the PPI as optional, setting it out as a separate cost to the 
loan. Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence to show that Miss V was misled here. Overall, I think that Lloyds made Miss V 
aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss V, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Miss V was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Miss Vs work benefits and covered her for 
far longer. And its worth bearing in mind that if Miss V fell behind on her secured loan 
repayments, she couldve lost her home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for her in 
protecting her home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Miss V about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here, Miss V chose to take out PPI, which indicates she wanted this type 
of cover. As I said above, Miss V wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something went wrong. The policy 
was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid 
on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss V could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman