DRN-4056915
The complaint
Mr L, through his representative, complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot 
Loans (Shelby), lent to him when he could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information from Shelby, here is a brief loan table: 
Loan Approved Amount Term & repayments Repaid
1 23 May 2021 £750 9 x £162.65 17 July 2021
2 24 July 2021 £1,000 9 x £216.08 3 December 2021
Both loans were settled early.
After Mr L, through his representative, had complained to Shelby in July 2022, it issued its 
final response letter (FRL) in which it gave details of Mr Ls application, the information it 
used in its creditworthiness assessment and details taken from the credit search it did for 
each loan. Shelby did not uphold the complaint, so Mr Ls representative referred it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at it and thought that Shelby had carried out proportionate 
checks and did not uphold the complaint. Mr L  through his representative- said:
I totally disagree with this outcome!
I could not afford what I was asked to pay due to addiction and that putting me over 
my over draft (bank Statements I can provide)
Our adjudicator issued a second view reaffirming the original outcome and mentioning what 
Mr L had referred to as his addiction. Our adjudicator did not have any evidence to show 
that Mr L had made Shelby aware of this before the loans were approved and Mr L 
responded in a similar way:
Please escalate, I should not have been given this and if they had checked my bank 
statements they would have seen there was an issue. An addict isnt going to admit 
there [sic] faults
Our adjudicator had invited Mr L to send in any further information or evidence he may have 
wanted us to see but none has been sent either by him or his representative. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint. 
Shelby asked Mr L about his monthly income at the time of his loans which he declared was 
£2,000 at the time of loan 1 and £1,600 at the time of loan 2. It asked him about his monthly 
outgoings which he declared was £505 for loan 1 and £874 for loan 2.
When Shelby carried out a credit check, it found that Mr Ls monthly outgoings were in fact 
closer to £820 for loan 1 and £800 for loan 2. 
Shelby used the higher figures and having deducted the higher amounts of £820 and £874 
from Mr Ls income, it appeared he had sufficient disposable income to meet the loan 
repayments.
There were two sets of credit searches carried out  just before each lending decision  and 
while I can see that in earlier years Mr L had experienced arrears on accounts and one default in March 2020 (paid off and closed in May 2020) that would not necessarily have led 
Shelby to consider refusing the loan applications or to delve deeper into Mr Ls financial 
situation. 
None of this would  in my view  for a £750 loan applied for at the start of a new loan chain 
 have prompted Shelby to have asked for further and more detailed information into Mr Ls 
financial situation. There was nothing that would have prompted it to have felt that was 
required before approving the £750 loan in 2021. And Id consider that for Shelby to have 
asked for and reviewed Mr Ls bank account statements would have been disproportionate. 
And as Mr L repaid loan 1 early and with no issues, then Shelby would not have been 
alerted to any concerns over Mr Ls ability to pay and the £1,000 loan which had been due to 
be repaid over a relatively modest term of nine months.  
Mr L has not described what his addiction may be and Im sorry to hear of it. Mr L suggested 
that seeing his bank account statements would have led Shelby to realise he ought not to 
have been given these loans. But Ive already explained I consider that request by Shelby 
would have been disproportionate in these circumstances. So, its highly likely that unless 
Mr L told Shelby of his addiction hes referred to, of which there is no evidence, then Id have 
not expected it to have known of it. 
I do not hold Shelby responsible for approving loans when its done what Id consider to have 
been all it needed to have done at the time it made the lending decisions. 
I do not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman