DRN-3806823
The complaint
Mrs C complains that, due to delays by the solicitors appointed by Lloyds Bank PLC, her 
mortgage isnt yet agreed. She says Lloyds initially told her she had until 30 November 2022 
to finalise her mortgage, but now says thats not right, and it wont extend the offer.
What happened
Mrs C took us through the history of her mortgage application, which is ongoing. She said
that Lloyds told her she would have until 30 November 2022 to complete, and she relied on
that information in organising her divorce proceedings. She needed paperwork from these
proceedings to complete the mortgage.
Mrs C said Lloyds then said that date was wrong, and she only had until 31 August. She said
the final documents needed to complete the mortgage were uploaded to the solicitors portal
on 18 August, but the deadline was missed. She said Lloyds had told her it couldnt extend
her offer, but in fact she received two extensions, running to 30 September and then to 17
October. However, it wasnt clear if Lloyds intended to offer its extension to 17 October, and
Mrs C has told us it wasnt prepared to share this extension with its lawyers, who would not
accept Mrs Cs copy of the extension documentation.
Lloyds told our service that it accepted it hadnt replied to Mrs Cs emails. But it said it wasnt
possible to extend the expiry date of the offer. It said that just isnt something it can do. And 
it said part of the delay to this application was because of delays by Mrs C in supplying
information.
However, Lloyds said all of this to our service on 30 August. Lloyds has extended Mrs Cs
offer twice since then, and it appears to have honoured at least one of those extensions.
Our investigator noted that Lloyds was still looking into issues with the legal firm that it had
instructed, and whether delays were caused by it. He thought this complaint should be
upheld in the meantime, and Lloyds should pay Mrs C £200 in compensation.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it, but only in part. This is what I said then: 
I dont think its appropriate for our service to reach a conclusion now on the service that 
has been provided to Mrs C throughout all the time that she has attempted to complete 
her remortgage with Lloyds. This remains a live issue, and the ultimate impact on Mrs C 
isnt yet clear. She has told us that if she has to take out a new mortgage product, the 
large increase in rates since she applied is likely to mean she will no longer be able to 
buy her house.
However, I do think that there is one issue which our service is able to reach an 
adjudication on now  the advice that Mrs C was given on a call on 28 May about when 
her eventual mortgage offer would expire.
Mrs C was initially told, in late May that her mortgage offer would remain open until 30 
November. Lloyds has accepted that its agent gave Mrs C this advice, and it has also 
accepted that this was wrong.
Mrs C told us she relied on this advice. I think it was reasonable for her to do so.
Importantly, Mrs C told us that because she thought she had until 30 November to 
complete her mortgage, she missed opportunities to expedite her divorce proceedings. 
She told us she could, and would, have asked the court to prioritise her case, if shed 
known that she didnt have anywhere near as long to complete her mortgage. But she 
didnt know, and she missed the chance to ask for prioritisation. That time is lost, Mrs C 
cannot get that back now. 
Lloyds mistake about when Mrs Cs mortgage offer would expire wasnt apparently 
corrected until Lloyds issued its mortgage offer in July. Mrs C says this cant have been 
posted promptly, and she didnt receive it until mid-August. I think thats partly because 
Mrs C was away from home for a while around this time. Shes told us she was caring 
for a relative who was extremely unwell in hospital then.
Its not Lloyds fault that Mrs C didnt get her mortgage offer until mid-August. But I dont 
think that changes the underlying position - it was reasonable for Mrs C to have simply 
believed, until then, what shed already been told by Lloyds, that she had until the end of 
November to complete her mortgage.
So I do think its likely that by the time Mrs C found out what Lloyds had said earlier was 
a mistake, it was too late for her to go back and expedite the courts considerations. I 
note that the documentation she needed had only just been prepared by the court. I also 
think its likely that this could have been done more quickly, if Mrs C had been aware of 
the urgency, and able to explain that to the court.
So I think Mrs C has lost around two and a half months, because she relied on Lloyds 
original statement about how long her mortgage offer would be valid for.
Its not clear whether Mrs Cs mortgage can be completed within the time originally 
envisaged, but I do think its fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to give her the time that it 
originally said she had.
I know that Lloyds has said its not possible to extend mortgage offers, but it appears 
from the evidence that Mrs C has sent us, of earlier extensions to her offer, that Lloyds 
is sometimes able to do so. And, for the reasons set out above, I think its fair and 
reasonable in the particular (and quite unusual) circumstances of this case, to ask 
Lloyds to honour its original statement, and extend Mrs Cs mortgage offer until 30 
November.
My decision deals solely with Lloyds mistaken representation on 28 May 2022. I make 
no finding on why Mrs Cs mortgage has not been agreed until now, or whether Lloyds 
has provided her with poor service overall, as I think that issue should be decided in the 
round, once the outcome of this application is clear.And, for the avoidance of doubt, my decision is not that Lloyds may withdraw Mrs Cs 
mortgage offer after 30 November. I make no finding on that either. My decision is solely 
that Mrs Cs mortgage offer may not be withdrawn up to and including 30 November.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
And I made clear that, because this issue is time sensitive, I would only allow a week for 
responses. Both sides have replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds initially responded to say it would like a little longer to consider this provisional 
decision. I replied to say that an extension could be granted, if Lloyds would in turn extend 
Mrs Cs mortgage offer by the same number of working days, and asked Lloyds to confirm if 
it still wanted the extension. Lloyds didnt then ask for any extension, and it has responded 
within the original deadline I gave. 
Mrs C also responded. She said that she was pleased and relieved to receive the provisional 
decision. She told us about the efforts she was making to complete the transfer of title with 
Lloyds appointed solicitors. She said that her previous experience was that Lloyds could 
take up to two weeks to pass an offer to its appointed solicitors, and she was concerned that 
this would mean the offer wouldnt be with the solicitors (and they wouldnt restart work) until 
the end of the month, when the offer expired. She asked if I could extend the offer past the 
original date. 
I understand the concerns that Mrs C has raised, but unfortunately I dont think that any 
further extension to the offer that Lloyds made, would fall within the scope of this decision. 
Im looking here only at the mistaken information Lloyds gave Mrs C in May, and the effect 
that had. Im not looking at the issues which have arisen since. I still think any decision on 
those should be taken in the round, once this matter has drawn to a close and our service is 
able to fully assess not only anything which has gone wrong, but also the impact on Mrs C. 
So I wont ask Lloyds to further extend this mortgage offer now.
Mrs C also said Lloyds had told her it hadnt understood that my provisional decision was to 
extend her mortgage offer at the original rate, which was fixed at 2.55% until 31 May 2027. I 
wrote in reply to Mrs C, to say I would write to Lloyds on this point. I then let Lloyds know 
that I was referring in my provisional decision to an extension to the offer originally made to 
Mrs C, which she received in August 2020. That would include the original rate offered then.
Lloyds then wrote to our service to say it would agree to extend the offer until 30 November. 
It said it had started work on that. 
Lloyds said it wasnt intending to extend beyond the end of the month. For the reasons noted 
above, I make no comment on this.
Lloyds also said that it had just discovered a second charge on Mrs Cs property. It said it 
would need further information on this from Mrs C before it could reissue her offer. I am 
certain that Mrs C will be keen to respond quickly to any questions asked. And Lloyds may 
also find that its own solicitors, who I understand are also working for Mrs C, can assist with 
this. So I shall simply note here that I would expect Lloyds to use its best efforts to comply 
promptly with the decision below.Finally, I confirm that I havent changed my mind about the appropriate decision in this case. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must extend Mrs Cs existing mortgage offer until 
at least 30 November 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman