DRN-4265653
The complaint
Mrs B complains that MBNA Limited was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs B was provided with two credit cards by MBNA which she said were unaffordable and 
provided irresponsibly. She says she has been struggling financially over many years and 
that had MBNA carried out proper checks it would have seen she had other debts and was 
using her overdraft. She says the credit cards and credit limit increases shouldnt have been 
provided. 
MBNA said Mrs B raised a complaint on 9 October 2022 about one of her credit cards. It 
issued a final response letter in regard to this credit card account. It said the account was 
provided in 2013, and so Mrs B had until 2019 to raise a complaint about this. It said it 
thought she would have been aware of any cause for complaint shortly after opening the 
account. It said due to time limits it had only considered the credit limit increase that Mrs B 
was notified about in November 2016.  
MBNA said that it only offered credit limit increases to customers with a good repayment 
history and where it believed they werent over-committed. It said Mrs B was contacted 
around a month before the credit limit increase was applied and it had no record of Mrs B 
declining this. It said Mrs B had kept her account up to date and it didnt accept it had lent 
irresponsibly.
Mrs B referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator explained the time limits of the 
complaints we can consider and Mrs B accepted that only the merits of the November 2016 
credit increase would be considered.
Our investigator considered whether MBNA acted irresponsibly by providing the credit limit 
increase to £6,400 in November 2016. Although she thought further checks should have 
taken place before this limit increase was provided, she didnt find that had these happened 
then the lending would have been found to be irresponsible. Because of this she didnt think 
this complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she had another complaint upheld 
in regard to a credit card for the same time period so didnt accept that this complaint wasnt 
upheld. Mrs B said the money she received from her husband wasnt income but a 
contribution towards expenses and that she only received £192.40 every four weeks from 
benefits. She said her wages fluctuated and she needed to borrow to make up the shortfall 
and was making payments towards several other debts at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
This decision is in regard to the November 2016 credit limit increase on the credit card 
account addressed in MBNAs final response letter dated October 2022. The credit limit was 
increased from £3,200 to £6,400. The checks carried out at the time of this credit limit 
increase by MBNA showed that Mrs B had no arrears, no defaulted accounts, no county 
court judgements or bankruptcies. Mrs B has provided a copy of a recent credit report, and 
this doesnt raise any concerns about the information provided by MBNA. 
While I accept Mrs Bs credit report didnt raise concerns, it didnt provide details of Mrs Bs 
other debts and given the credit limit was being doubled, I think MBNA should have carried 
out further checks to ensure that the additional lending was affordable for Mrs B.
I have looked through Mrs Bs bank statements for the months leading up to the credit limit 
increase and considered the further information Mrs B has provided. Mrs B has explained 
she was self-employed and her income fluctuated. Having looked at her statements for the 
months leading up to the credit limit increase, the income does vary but on average Mrs B 
appeared to be earning around £1,000 a month. Additional to this she received around £192 
in benefits every four weeks and was also receiving money from her husband towards bills 
(a regular payment of £710 a month was made as well as additional payments through the 
month). 
Mrs B has said that her husband paid the mortgage and she paid for other bills such as food, 
utilities and other costs. Her bank statements support this and show payments for utilities, 
communications contracts, insurance and credit commitments were around £1,200 a month. 
Additional to this Mrs Bs bank statements show payments of around £400 a month for fuel 
and food. Considering these expenses against Mrs Bs income (including benefits payments) 
and noting that she was receiving the regular payment of £710 towards bills from her 
husband (as well as other payments) I do not find that I have enough to say further checks 
would have shown the credit limit increase to have been unaffordable to Mrs B.
I understand that this decision will be a disappointment to Mrs B, and I note her comment 
about another case being upheld. We consider each case based on its individual merits and 
having looked at the evidence provided in this case I do not find I can say further checks 
would have shown the credit limit increase in November 2016 to have been irresponsible. 
Therefore, I do not find I have enough to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman