DRN-4144945
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was advised incorrectly by Direct Wealth Management Limited 
(DWM) in relation to a switch of his pension from one provider to another.
What happened
Mr F had a Managed Pension Fund with a provider (the previous pension) and spoke to a 
representative from Direct Wealth Management in October 2021 in relation to a potential 
transfer of his pension.
Following this discussion, DWM sent Mr F a Suitability Report dated 7 December 2021 to 
summarise their discussion and provide their recommendation. The report included DWMs 
assessment of Mr Fs requirements including their determination of his attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. Mr Fs attitude to risk was assessed to be 4 out of 10 which they called the 
lowest medium risk profile and DWM determined that Mr F could afford a small loss.
DWM recommended a personal pension offered by a new provider  a 40% equity fund (the  
New Fund). This would involve a transfer of Mr Fs pension benefits and, in doing so, DWM 
advised that Mr F would gain the following benefits from the New Fund:
Flexible drawdown options
Lower ongoing charges
A fund more closely matching Mr Fs risk rating and risk appetite
Having received this report, Mr F switched his pension from the previous provider to the New 
Fund recommended by DWM on 16 December 2021.
Around 10 months after making the switch, Mr F complained to DWM that the New Fund had 
not performed as well as the previous pension and had lost 20% of its value in the preceding 
10 months.
DWM sent Mr F a final response to this complaint on 5 December 2022 acknowledging his 
complaint and stating that the value of the New Fund had fallen 11.34% in the 12 months 
since the switch was completed.
DWM said that, whilst the New Fund had not performed as well as Mr Fs previous pension, 
this was one of the inherent risks of investing and any particular level of performance could 
not be guaranteed. They added that the value of long-term investments could fall as well as 
rise and that Mr F had been made aware of the risks in the Suitability Report. DWM did not 
uphold Mr Fs complaint.
DWM said that Mr F sent a further complaint to them in relation to DWMs ongoing advice 
fees. DWM said that, in response to this, they removed all ongoing advice fees from the 
policy.
Mr F then complained to us on the basis that the annual and ongoing fees were larger than 
the fees of the previous pension and that he was never told that 60% of his funds would be 
invested in funds which would fall in value if interest rates rose. Mr F said that, prior to 
switching, there was talk of interest rates rising and that, if he had been aware of how the 
value was connected with interest rates, he would not have moved his pension. He said that 
the advice he had received from DWM was wrong and he provided valuations to 
demonstrate that the New Fund had fallen over 14% in value since switching.
Our Investigators view was that:
DWM are not the fund managers of the New Fund and therefore cannot be held liable for 
the drop in fund value.
The overall performance of the investment market in early 2022 was significantly poor so 
it was normal that the performance of Mr Fs fund suffered as a result.
DWM clearly explained to Mr F that investment performance was not guaranteed.
DWMs recommendation to Mr F listed the benefits of making the switch to the New 
Fund.
The advice provided by DWM met Mr Fs needs and objectives at the time and the 
advice was not unsuitable.
DWM had not provided Mr F with poor advice nor had they contributed to Mr Fs loss and 
had met its objectives as outlined in the Suitability Report.
Mr F did not accept this view on the basis that:
The charges for the New Fund were higher if you included DWMs fees
The advice to move his pension was bad advice
Mr F asked that an Ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and will not be 
upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Mr Fs complaint to us consisted of three points: that the annual and ongoing fees were 
larger than the fees of the previous pension; that he was not aware of how the New Fund 
would be invested, particularly in relation to its connection to interest rates, and that the New 
Fund had fallen significantly in value since the switch was completed.
In reviewing Mr Fs complaint and the advice on switching he received from DWM, it is 
important that we look at whether or not there was reasonable potential for Mr F to be better 
off as a result of switching and whether or not the reasons for switching could be supported. 
Given that Mr F appears to be an investor with a fairly low attitude to risk, we would expect 
there to be a greater potential for gain than for an investor with a higher attitude to risk. In 
general, I have looked at whether or not the advice provided to Mr F by DWM was suitable at 
the time it was given. I have therefore discussed below each of the points raised in the 
complaint in this context. On the point regarding the annual and ongoing fees, the Suitability Report does include 
lower ongoing charges as one of the benefits Mr F stood to gain from switching his pension 
from the previous provider to the New Fund. Specifically, it says that Mr Fs annual charges 
would be reduced to 0.37% per annum which is lower than the ongoing charge that the 
previous provider takes. Looking more closely at the report, DWM lists the fees for the 
previous pension as including a policy fee of £1.00 per month together with an Annual 
Management Charge of 0.75%. With respect to the New Fund, the charges detailed in the 
Suitability Report include a Platform Fee of 0.15% and a Fund Management Charge of 
0.22% as well as an Initial Fee and an Ongoing Adviser Fee from DWM charged at 3% and 
1% respectively. It is true that the Platform Fee and the Fund Management Charge total the 
0.37% per annum referred to however I understand it is the Ongoing Adviser Fee, which was 
estimated at around an additional £238 for the first 12 months, that caused Mr F to complain 
to DWM in relation to the charges.
The material provided to Mr F by DWM does highlight the fees that would be payable both 
for the initial advice and the ongoing fee. I would expect DWM to take steps to draw Mr Fs 
attention to them. I understand that Mr F may be raising a complaint on these charges 
because he does not agree that the New Fund truly had lower ongoing fees as stated in the 
Suitability Report when taking all of the costs into account. Whilst I can appreciate that Mr F 
may find this inconsistent, it is not uncommon to only include the product charges in the 
overall cost illustration of an investment product and not the financial advisers fees. The 
ongoing advice charge was something separate that Mr F could opt to have, or not since the 
charge was connected with an additional service Mr F was being offered by DWM. Mr F 
could have had the benefit of this service even if he stayed with his previous pension 
provider. Overall, I dont consider that the charges for DWMs services should be taken into 
account when considering the benefits of the New Fund and think therefore that 
recommending the switch on the basis that the charges of the New Fund were lower was a 
reasonable one.
Following Mr Fs further complaint to DWM in relation to the ongoing adviser fee, I 
understand that DWM have waived this fee indefinitely and this is, I think, a reasonable 
response to this complaint.
With respect to the fall in value, based on the illustrations provided by Mr F and DWM, it is 
clear that the New Fund had in fact fallen in value between the time Mr F made the switch 
and the time he brought his complaint to us.
I would agree that DWM are not able to offer any guarantees about the performance of a 
particular fund and that the relevant market conditions have resulted in the New Fund having 
lost more value than Mr Fs previous pension. This is not something which DWM can 
reasonably be held liable for in itself, however, DWM have a responsibility to ensure that 
they are recommending a product to Mr F that is suitable as far as his situation and attitude 
to risk are concerned.
The investment recommended by DWM, the New Fund, was thought to have several 
advantages over Mr Fs previous pension and most of these related to administrative matters 
such as flexibility of access and the lower charges. Other than the specific issues raised by 
Mr F in relation to ongoing charges discussed in detail above, I understand that no complaint 
has been made about the value of these benefits and so these must be considered valid 
reasons for DWM recommending this fund to Mr F.
In terms of the overall risks, the New Fund is categorised by its provider as being 
appropriate for cautious investors. The material provided to Mr F by DWM, including that 
which is contained in the Suitability Report, does suggest that the New Fund is indeed a 
fairly low risk investment which would be suitable for investors who are more cautious. One of the advantages highlighted to Mr F in the Suitability Report was that the New Fund more 
closely matched Mr Fs risk profile as compared with the previous pension. I have seen a 
Cost Analysis document provided to Mr F by DWM which includes a projected fund value 
following retirement and suggests that Mr F would be able to see a higher annual paid up 
value for his pension with a lower rate of return under the New Fund compared with his 
previous pension. Put more simply, this meant that the New Fund was thought likely to offer 
more in pension payments to Mr F on retirement than the previous pension for the same 
level of growth. Taking all of this into account and given Mr Fs attitude to risk, which is 
based on the responses provided to several questions, the advice and recommendation 
provided by DWM seem relevant and reasonable.
As to whether or not Mr F should have been advised specifically that the fund value may fall 
in the event that interest rates rose, I dont agree that this is the case. Mr F received advice 
on the issue of switching from DWM who had detailed what they saw as his requirements 
and made a recommendation on that basis. There were many aspects of the product 
recommended to him and the inverse relationship with interest rates is just one of these. Mr 
F was free to accept or reject this advice based on what was set out in the Suitability Report 
or as he saw fit and I dont think DWM were under an obligation to provide advice on each 
individual aspect of the recommendation.
There is an additional question however, that of whether or not DWM should have 
recommended a fund that would fall in value if interest rates were to rise. Whilst I would 
agree that generally advisers such as DWM have a responsibility to ensure that the advice 
they provide is relevant to both the prevailing and expected market conditions, I do not think 
DWM could reasonably have been expected to foresee the conditions that were largely 
responsible for the significant fall in the value of the New Fund in the period after the transfer 
was made.
As Mr F says, it is true that there was discussion in financial markets during 2021 around 
interest rates rising and therefore some rise in rates was, to some extent, foreseeable. 
However, it appears that the events that influenced the much sharper rise in interest rates 
during the course of 2022 were particularly unusual and therefore more difficult to foresee. 
To this it should be added that the New Fund was recommended to Mr F as a longer-term 
investment and, whilst the drop in value experienced by Mr F was not forecast, even in the 
shorter term, the intention was that the benefits would have been measured over a longer 
period. For these reasons, I do not hold DWM liable for recommending this fund on the basis 
of the potential impact of interest rate rises.
I appreciate that the situation has been difficult for Mr F given that his pension may have 
been more valuable had he not made the switch but the nature of the market means that this 
is one of the risks of investing in financial products. The advice provided by DWM did not 
ultimately provide the benefits to Mr F as either party would have hoped but I do not think 
they have acted unreasonably or provided advice to Mr F that was inappropriate or 
unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Rana Chatterjee
Ombudsman