DRN-3304279
The complaint
Mr A complains that the advice given to him in 2006 by TenetConnect Limited to transfer two
personal pensions into one alternative plan was unsuitable. In this complaint Mr A is 
represented by a third party, but for clarity Ill refer to Mr A throughout.
What happened
In 2006 Mr A had two personal pensions with providers who Ill refer to as P and L. He 
engaged a financial adviser (whose advice is now the responsibility of TenetConnect) who 
advised he transfer both pension plans into one provided by a different business, who Ill 
refer to as Z.
In 2019 Mr A complained to TenetConnect that the advice to transfer his pensions was 
unsuitable. He said:
The ceding plan held lower risk assets and was performing above its sector average. 
There appears to be no valid reasons for recommending the transfer
The charges for transferring the pension were excessive and did not represent value 
for money proposition.
Alternatives to a full transfer such as fund switching appear not to have been 
considered and reasonable reasons for discounting this cheaper option made clear.
TenetConnect didnt uphold his complaint. It said the recommended pension scheme and 
fund were appropriate and matched Mr As objectives and attitude to risk, both ceding 
schemes were performing below the sector average and there were no transfer charges. 
The recommended pension had low charges and better allocation than the ceding schemes.
Mr A didnt agree so complained to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought:
The ceding scheme plans had an annual management charge (AMC) of around 1%
The ceding scheme investments had more cautious risk profiles
There were alternative funds available within the ceding schemes which had a riskier 
profile if Mr A had wished to change
The AMC for the receiving scheme was lower than the ceding scheme (0.8% overall)
The charges were kept to a minimum as no initial or ongoing advice fees were 
charged. The reduced AMC meant greater potential for capital growth
Viable alternatives were compared.
Mr As balanced attitude to risk (ATR) was appropriate, and the selected funds 
matched his ATR and were sufficiently diversified
Mr As contributions were affordable
The adviser was paid approximately 5.5% commission for the transfer
So overall, despite the fact that there were alternative funds within the ceding scheme which 
couldve matched his revised ATR, the lower AMC in the receiving scheme and no advisor 
fees meant the investigator was of the opinion that the advice to transfer was appropriate 
and matched his objectives.
Mr A replied, in summary:
Asking for clarification if a Market Value Reduction (MVR) or a transfer penalty 
charge had been imposed by the ceding schemes
Questioning why his retirement age was increased from 60 to 65, as this was 
beneficial to the adviser in relation to commission, and potential exit penalties, when 
it couldve been extended at the original due date with no penalty
Asking how the adviser was remunerated if no fee was charged
Asking for the transfer value from each ceding scheme
The investigator replied to these points on 28 March 2021:
There was no MVR applied
The transfer values were £6,944.21 £5,830.32 and £39,258.31
The commission to the adviser was approx. 5.5% on each transfer
65 was used as the intended retirement date as this was how Mr A recorded it under 
his objectives
Mr A replied, in summary:
The 5.5% commission was still an adviser fee which was deducted
Extending his retirement age to 65, from the original 60, reduced the amount of 
recovery growth needed
He accepted the selected funds were appropriate for his circumstances, but he was 
unaware of the commission charged or that he couldve avoided this by switching 
funds in his original schemes, and couldve also extended his retirement date
The investigator didnt change his view that the transfer was appropriate. As no agreement 
could be reached, the matter was referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Whilst the complaint was awaiting allocation, the investigator gave Mr A further evidence to 
support his view. He said one of the ceding schemes had a 5% bid/offer spread, whereas 
the receiving scheme had a 0% bid/offer spread, which meant the receiving scheme 
wouldve been more beneficial to Mr A as more of his funds would be invested.
As a result, Mr A asked for the following:
Confirmation that no MVR was applied by P
Confirmation that no exit charge was applied by L
Clarification of the allocation rate for regular premiums to L
What commission was paid to the adviser
The investigator responded as follows:
No MVR applied by P
No exit charge applied by L55% allocation rate for the L premiums
£2161.17 and £703.24 commission paid for the L and P plans respectively. These 
charges were in the illustration documents
Mr A didnt agree that the transfer was suitable, as given the amount of commission taken by 
the adviser it would take over 20 years of investments in the new scheme to make up the 
difference in investment levels.
On 4 February 2022 I wrote to Mr A and TenetConnect with my provisional thoughts, as Id 
received further information from Z which I wanted both Mr A and TenetConnect to consider. 
In my provisional decision I said:
From what I read in the file, it is agreed by both sides that 
there are overall lower charges in the receiving scheme than in the ceding schemes, 
and that there were no transfer penalties imposed by either. 
whilst Mr A couldve selected different funds within the ceding schemes to reflect his 
changed ATR, the funds chosen within the receiving scheme were appropriate.
The premiums were affordable.
What I can see remaining is the question of the source of the commission paid to the 
adviser, which is the information I have requested and received from Z.
It would be fair to say, that if the commission was paid either by Mr A directly, or from the 
value of the transferred funds, then that would probably make a significant difference in the 
decision whether the transfer advice was appropriate. This is because it wouldve either 
impacted Mr A directly, or had a detrimental effect on the value of his funds, neither of which 
wouldve happened had he not transferred.
Z, due to the passage of time, no longer has records specifically in this regard, so it is unable 
to tell me definitively how the commission was paid to the adviser. But it has said the 
following: 
It [commission] never comes out of the customers initial investment sum  that 
wasnt permitted in the 2000s. Commission was always between the provider and the 
agent, privately, for the referral of business  the customer was kept separate from 
the matter.
Weve had numerous complaints where customers have mistakenly believed 
Commission came from them but it is not the case. 
So, as Ive said above, Z are unable to provide definitive proof that the commission wasnt 
paid from Mr As funds. However, on balance, I think it is unlikely. I think in light of the 
evidence above it was more likely paid by the receiving scheme to the adviser directly, and 
this had no impact on Mr A or his funds.
So, taking this into account, and that the fees in the receiving scheme are overall lower than 
the ceding schemes, the selected funds were appropriate for his objectives and ATR, and 
there is a 0% bid/offer spread in the receiving scheme, my provisional decision is that the 
advice given to Mr A in 2006 to transfer his plans into the plan provided by Z was suitable.
The responses to my provisional decision
TenetConnect agreed with my provisional decision and had no further comments to make. But Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary:
The issue of how the charges were applied was misleading
The units being purchased only had a 55% allocation rate, which meant 45% was 
being retained by Z, which meant it was considerably more expensive than the 
ceding scheme.
Z doesnt operate a free service for pension charges. Increasing the retirement age 
to 65 meant increased projected yields and AMC, so the new plan wouldnt be 
cheaper
Mr A wasnt provided the correct disclosure documents and realistic projected returns 
so was unable to make an informed decision.
Z should undertake a loss assessment to make a factual comparison between the 
ceding and receiving funds to determine if financial disadvantage has occurred as a 
result of the advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will comment on each of the above points in turn:
Im satisfied the ongoing fees being applied as a result of the transfer were clear and 
fairly laid out within the receiving scheme guide. Mr A maintains he wasnt aware of 
the commission being received by the adviser for the advice. But whether this was or 
wasnt the case, I dont think it wouldve made any difference to his decision to 
transfer, as the commission wasnt being paid by him or coming from his funds.
The 55% allocation rate applied to the ceding scheme administered by L. The 
receiving scheme administered by Z had a 100% allocation rate.
The retirement age of 65 was Mr As preferred retirement age and was provided by 
him as one of his objectives. As such it was the correct age to use in the new plan. 
Im satisfied that Mr A was able to make an informed decision, and agree that the 
advice to transfer, given his objectives, ATR and fees, was suitable. 
It would be inappropriate to ask Z to undertake a loss assessment, when it is not Z 
that is the subject of this complaint. 
So having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, Im satisfied the outcome 
I set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman