DRN-2899473
The complaint
Mr E complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim under his motor 
insurance policy after his car was written off.
 
What happened
Mr Es car was involved in an accident. Aviva deemed that the car was a category N write-
off.  This means that it could be used again if repaired to a roadworthy condition.
Aviva offered Mr E his cars market value in settlement. But he didnt think that the valuation 
was enough. Aviva increased its original offer from £1,575 to £2,050. Mr E was happy with 
the revised valuation.
Mr E wanted to keep the car and repair it. Aviva told him the salvage value would be 30% of 
its settlement offer, which was worked out as 30% times £2,050. And came to £615.
Mr E thought the salvage deduction was too much. So he complained to Aviva. But it didnt 
uphold his complaint. It told him that it couldnt change the salvage percentage it charged.
Unhappy, Mr E brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator agreed that the 
salvage charge was too high. And felt that Aviva should return the amount theyd deducted 
for salvage, plus interest. 
Aviva didnt agree. It said it uses the same salvage categories for each customer who retains 
their vehicle following a total loss. And so his case has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on this on 27 May 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mr E, but I dont intend to uphold his complaint. 
Ive dont consider that Aviva has treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
Under the terms of his policy, Mr E was entitled to the market value of his car. This is an 
amount that reflects the cars value immediately before the incident. It takes into account a 
number of factors including the cars age, condition, mileage and specification. Hes said 
hes happy with the value Aviva place on his car in the end.
Its a general principle of insurance that when an insurer pays out for a total loss, it gets to 
retain the damaged item if its available. The reason for this is that we have to decide whats 
fair and reasonable overall and it wouldnt be fair for an insurer to lose out as a result of the 
consumer keeping their car.
So when an insurer allows a consumer to retain the salvage it will usually deduct what it 
wouldve received when disposing of the salvage. Insurers can have favourable commercial 
arrangements with salvage agents. This means that its possible for an insurer to achieve a 
more favourable return for salvage than a consumer might get for the same vehicle.
We agree that an insurer may do that, and that the charge can be a percentage of the cars 
market value, as long as its not unreasonably high. Any commercial arrangement an insurer 
has with a salvage agent is deemed as business sensitive. And so we cant share this 
information with the consumer. 
Aviva said that the car was a Category N write off which meant that it could be repaired and 
sold on. Mr E wanted to keep the car and repair it himself. Aviva was happy to agree to that. 
But it wanted to make a salvage deduction of 30% of the cars market value. This 
percentage was set to reflect what it hoped itd achieve if it sold the car. Aviva has confirmed 
that this percentage is used for all customers if their cars are in the same salvage category 
as Mr Es.
This percentage is within the range Ive seen other motor insurers charge. And given the 
favourable commercial arrangements insurers have with salvage agents I think it reflects 
what Aviva wouldve otherwise obtained. Its also used for all customers in the same position 
as Mr E. 
Our investigator said that for the salvage deduction to a be a fair and reasonable payment, 
hed need to see evidence of what salvage value would be received from Avivas salvage 
agent. But Aviva said these deductions are its standard practice and cant be adjusted. 
He wanted proof of the actual value Aviva wouldve got, so he could compare that with the 
£615 deduction Mr E had been offered. Aviva couldnt provide this. But I dont agree that 
Aviva needs to provide this. Its treated Mr E fairly by following its usual process. Its given 
him the option of retaining his car. And its treated him in the same way that it treats other 
customers. So I dont consider that its done anything wrong.
Aviva said they retain 30% in cases like these. I dont feel that this is an unreasonable or 
unfair amount. And it was signposted to Mr E when his car was being valued for settlement. 
Different insurers may use different percentages. But what percentage Aviva chooses is a 
business decision for them.
Overall I dont think that Aviva have been unfair or unreasonable in dealing with Mr Es 
claim. And as Aviva havent done anything wrong I dont require them to do anything else. 
Response to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman