DRN-3811142
The complaint
Miss C complains that the loan she had from Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely 
Loans) was unaffordable for her.
What happened
Miss C borrowed £1,000 from Likely Loans on 28 June 2021. She needed to repay £91.28 
per month for 12 months but settled the loan on 20 July 2021.
Miss C says she was already in financial difficulties when she applied for the loan. She says 
she had multiple loans already and couldnt keep up with the repayments. As a result, 
Miss C says she defaulted on some loans and took out a further loan to repay this one. She 
adds that Likely Loans should have seen from her credit file that she was already in financial 
difficulties and the loan has negatively affected her both financially and mentally.
Likely Loans says it considered Miss Cs income and expenditure and reviewed her credit 
file. It says it was satisfied with the credit check results and the affordability assessment and 
found the loan both affordable and sustainable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing to show the lending 
was unsustainable.
Miss C responded with a copy of her credit file and said there was clear evidence that she 
was already struggling financially when she applied for the loan. She said she had recently 
taken out two short-term loans and a further high-cost loan when Likely Loans approved 
further lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Likely Loans lent to Miss C. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Likely Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Cs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show Likely Loans verified Miss Cs income, checked her credit file 
and applied a statistical model to estimate her other expenditure. Im satisfied that these 
checks were reasonable and proportionate for Miss Cs loan because:
The loan repayments were less than 6% of her verified income;The affordability calculation showed Miss C had over £700 of disposable income each 
month;
Likely Loanss credit check showed:
oNo County Court Judgements or defaults and all Miss Cs accounts were up to 
date with payments;
oJust two active accounts  a loan and a credit card  with combined monthly 
payments of around £220;
For the above reasons, I dont consider there was anything in the results of the checks that 
suggested Miss C was struggling financially, or that Likely Loans needed to carry out further 
checks.
I accept that Miss C says she had other high cost loans at the time and I can see she took 
out two short-term loans in the month prior to the Likely Loans application which did not 
appear on its credit check at the time. However, even if Likely Loans had been aware of the 
outstanding loans, I dont find the new lending would have been unaffordable based on the 
results of its other checks.
I can also see that Miss C took out a further loan on the same day as the Likely Loans loan, 
but as it is not reasonable to expect Likely Loans to have known this, I cant say it was wrong 
to have approved the lending.
So Im satisfied that Likely Loans carried out enough checks and found the repayments were 
affordable and sustainable. Therefore, I consider it made a fair lending decision and did not 
act unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman