DRN-3424038
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services (BHL). 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In February 2019 Mr O acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BHL. 
The car was registered in October 2016, which means it was about two years and four 
months old and had travelled around 35,245 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price 
of the car was £30,539. Mr O part exchanged a vehicle for the value of £6,200. So, the total 
amount financed on this agreement was £24,339 payable over 48 months.
Mr O says that soon after acquiring the car he experienced different issues with it. The 
issues included but were not limited to, chips to the paint work and alloys, a faulty bonnet 
latch, problems with the diesel particulate filter (DPF), fuel pump and a discrepancy with the 
cars service records. Mr O explained that there had been some confusion over when the car 
had last been serviced. When Mr O raised the issue about the service history the dealer was 
able to show that the car had been serviced at 21,399 miles and at 35,188 miles. 
Mr O explained that for most of the issues the dealer was able to repair or fix them. In their 
file submission to us BHL confirmed that the issues reported by Mr O at that time, had been 
repaired or fixed between September 2019 and January 2020. They also confirmed the 
misunderstanding about the cars service history.
Mr O said that in April 2021, his car broke down and was recovered to a garage. The garage 
diagnosed that the timing chain had snapped which caused the engine to fail. This was 
confirmed by BHL in their file submission. 
Mr O complained to BHL that the existing issues along with the discrepancies with the 
servicing contributed to the failure of the timing chain. Mr O also said that he hadnt had any 
use of the car since April 2021. In August 2021 BHL responded to Mr Os complaint. They 
upheld the issues with the bonnet catch, the paintwork and the DPF and advised that they 
were all rectified and felt this was a fair outcome for them. They also offered Mr O £250 in 
compensation.
However BHL didnt uphold the issue with the fuel filter, as they felt it was due to wear and 
tear; and as Mr O was able to drive around 19,000 miles and for 26 months in the car before 
the timing chain failed they didnt think they were liable for this also. BHL also explained that 
the service history was up to date but acknowledged there had been an initial system error.
Unhappy with BHLs response, Mr O brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Os complaint and didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator felt that as Mr O hadnt serviced the car when it was due, it was likely to have 
contributed to the snapping of the timing chain and engine failure.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr O asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. BHL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BHL supplied Mr O with a used car that had travelled 35,245 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at £30,539 
which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So, I think it is fair to say that 
a reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for a 
reasonable period of time.
From the information provided by the dealership, detailing the repairs carried out on Mr Os 
car between September 2019 and January 2020, Im satisfied that the following parts of Mr 
Os car required a repair:
Bonnet latch 
Software update on PCM
Paintwork  
Software update for vehicle inControl system
DPF regeneration 
Fuel pump replaced
Mr O hasnt reported any failure of the repairs, nor have I seen anything which suggests the 
repairs havent been successful, so Im also satisfied that the above issues with the car has 
been successfully repaired.Mr Os main concerns are in relation to the breakdown of his car as a result of a failed timing 
chain and engine. From the information provided Im persuaded that theres a fault with the 
timing chain and engine. The dealership confirmed that in April 2021 they investigated a 
snapped timing chain and advised thar a new engine was required. They also confirmed in 
an email dated 5 August 2021 that the engine failure was the consequential damage from 
the snapped timing chain. Having considered the engine damage was a result of the failed 
timing chain Ive thought about whether the timing chain was of satisfactory quality at the 
time of supply. 
I dont think any of the issues listed above, that were repaired between September 2019 and 
January 2020, are directly related to the failure of the timing chain. Ive also seen no 
evidence that links any of the issues with its failure. However, as Im satisfied that theyve 
been repaired successfully Ive focussed my decision on the failure of the timing chain and 
resultant engine damage.
Satisfactory quality
During a phone call with our investigator, Mr O said that his car has been undriveable since 
it broke down in April 2021. BHL confirmed that the car was recovered to the dealership in 
April 2021 due to a snapped timing chain. They also confirmed that the car had travelled 
around 55,000 miles at the point the timing chain had failed. This was also confirmed by the 
dealership. In consideration of the mileage, that the car was less than five years old when it 
broke down and had been owned by Mr O for around 26 months, Im persuaded that the 
timing chain wasnt durable and so was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
him.
BHL confirmed that industry guidance advised the timing chain could be expected to last the 
lifetime of the engine, providing its been maintained. The car was expected to be serviced 
every 21,000 miles or every two years. BHL records show the car was serviced at the 
following intervals:
First service: 13/12/2017  21,399 miles
Second service: 17/12/2018 - 35,188 miles
So, although the car was within the mileage guidance for its third service, by way of dates, it 
was due a third Service in December 2020. In their file submission to us, BHL have focused 
on the failure to carry out a third service as a reason for the snapped timing chain. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that the reason for the snapped timing chain was due to 
the car not being serviced within four months of its due date, particularly when Mr O hadnt 
driven in excess of 21,000 miles since the last service. In addition, in their final response to 
Mr O, BHL said that the dealership hadnt been able to advise of the cause of the failure. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that a major component has failed in a relatively short 
time after supply and with a mileage that also wasnt significantly high. Ive also considered 
that this wasnt a very old or particularly cheap car. In fact, it cost Mr O in excess of thirty 
thousand pounds. In the absence of misuse of the car (or some other factor like accident 
damage) I think a reasonable person would consider this to be unacceptable.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. From the evidence provided I 
think its fair to conclude that Mr Os car was not suitably durable because it suffered 
catastrophic engine failure, having travelled less than 55,000 miles as the result of a part failing that should not reasonably have failed at that mileage. And considering what Ive said 
about the servicing of the car, I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have to 
replace the engine on a car of this age and mileage so soon, so I do not consider the car 
was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied.
Putting things right
As Ive concluded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr O, Ill 
be instructing BHL to put things right.
Mr O has said that he wants to reject the car given all the problems hes experienced with it. 
The CRA allows the business the right to repair as a remedy if the goods supplied are not of 
satisfactory quality. However, the CRA also says that the business must do so within a 
reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer.
Considering Mr O has been without a car since April 2021 and has said hes had to rely on 
family to get him around, alongside the mental and emotional stress its placed on him, I 
think its fair to say hes experienced significant inconvenience. 
So, in the circumstances Ill be instructing BHL to allow Mr O to reject the car and refund his 
deposit along with all monthly repayments hes made since April 2021 when the car broke 
down.
Mr O has also said hes been paying for the insurance while the car has been in the garage. 
Hes provided a schedule of payments showing he maintained his monthly insurance 
payments of £47.98 up to and including September 2021. As Mr O hasnt had use of his car 
from April 2021, I think its reasonable that BHL reimburse Mr O for the payments hes made 
after April 2021.
Mr O has also advised that hes had to pay for road tax for the year. Ive thought about this 
carefully, but I wont be asking BHL to reimburse Mr O for the road tax. Mr O said he only ad 
two months of use, however, I think Mr O would have had the opportunity to declare the car 
SORN when it became clear the repairs were in dispute and request a prorate refund.  For 
example, according to the payment schedule, Mr O continued his insurance for a further five 
months. In addition, I think any inconvenience around the road tax would be included within 
the compensation awarded. 
Mr O has also described the distress and inconvenience that the whole situation has caused 
him and his family. Mr O said the greatest impact has been the mental and emotional stress. 
Considering the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr O, Ill be instructing BHL to 
pay him £250 in compensation. 
I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
Mr O responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
BHL responded to say that they didnt accept my provisional decision. BHL made some 
further comments which Ill address below. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Within their response BHL made the following point:
1. oil changes are critical to the durability and functioning of the timing chain so on the 
balance of probabilities the missed oil change was the cause of failure to the timing 
chain 
The above is not exhaustive, but a summary of what I considered to be the main point raised 
in BHLs response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all the information 
provided by both parties in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the informal 
approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issue here.
Having reviewed BHLs response, I acknowledge that oil changes are an important part of 
the cars maintenance. However, I remain persuaded that the failure of the timing chain 
shouldnt have occurred just four months out of a service date. Particularly considering the 
car had only travelled 55,000 miles and was still within the mileage allowance from the most 
recent service. In addition, Im aware that timing chains tend to have a general life span of 
around of 100,000 miles. Im persuaded the failure premature and so wasnt durable and 
therefore not of satisfactory quality. 
I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the 
reasons as set out above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr O. So, my final decision is the same. 
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for BHL, however I can assure them 
that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that my provisional 
findings are fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint about Black Horse Limited trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services and instruct them to:
collect the car at no additional cost to Mr O
end the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr O and remove it from Mr Os 
credit file
pay Mr O £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
refund all repayments made towards the agreement by Mr O after April 2021
reimburse the car insurance payments made by Mr O after April 2021, as described 
in my decision
Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all 
refunds and reimbursements calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman