DRN-4111175
The complaint
Mr C complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd, trading as Virgin Money delayed
sending the cash value of his Individual Savings Account (ISA) and Personal Equity Plan
(PEP) to his new provider. Mr C says this caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Virgin Money received a completed ISA and PEP transfer form from another provider and
sold the units it held for Mr C on 11 March 2022. The funds werent sent to the new provider
until 7 June as Virgin Money said it required additional information from Mr C - proof of 
income - before it could send the funds.
Mr C complained to Virgin Money that hed recently provided a statement of wealth form that 
had been accepted in February and that Virgin Money only told him it needed further 
information by way of proof of income on 12 May. Mr C says that when the funds were sent 
to the new provider on 7 June, the value of the units was considerably higher than when 
Virgin Money sold them and that this had caused him a financial loss as his ISA/PEP had 
been held in cash since 11 March.
Virgin Money provided a final response to Mr Cs complaint and said it was trying to contact
the new provider to understand the impact of the delay. Virgin Money sent Mr C a cheque for
£150 as a remedy for the distress and inconvenience the delay had caused him. Mr C didnt
cash the cheque and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our
Investigators looked into things and thought that Virgin Money had caused Mr C more
distress and inconvenience than it had recognised, and that Virgin Money should pay
interest on the delayed funds.
Mr C asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
As I reached a different outcome to the Investigator, I issued a provisional decision. In my 
provisional decision I said I intended to ask Virgin Money to recalculate the transfer amount 
using the value of the unit prices on the day the transfer actually completed in June. The unit 
prices should be adjusted to include any dividend Mr C may have been entitled to on his 
funds because of the delay. In this case, any dividend declared on 15 March would have 
been paid to Mr C on 15 May. As Mr C usually re-invested dividends, it seemed fair and 
reasonable that Virgin Money should adjust the number of units Mr C may have held at the 
transfer date if any dividend to which he would have been entitled to had been reinvested. 
I explained in my provisional decision that because Mr C had to call Virgin Money a number 
of times to find out what was happening with the transfer, I intended asking Virgin Money to 
pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him. 
Mr C accepted my provisional decision and asked that Virgin Money provide him with a full 
breakdown of its calculations and the unit prices it used so that he could retain accurate 
records.
Virgin Money asked me to reconsider the element of my provisional decision that dealt with 
the dividend declared on 15 March. Virgin Money said the account was sold on 11 March, in 
line with the terms and conditions that state, Once the terms of your transfer have been 
agreed with the new ISA manager, we will sell your units on that business day ... Therefore, 
Mr C wasnt invested at the time the fund became ex-dividend and that any units sold before 
an ex-dividend date would not qualify for any subsequent income distribution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the comments from Mr C and Virgin Money, but Ive decided that 
my provisional decision is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
will now explain why Ive decided to adopt my provisional decision as my final decision.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint isnt disputed, and Virgin Money accepts it got things wrong 
and should have requested proof of income much earlier than it did. This is what delayed the 
transfer after Virgin Money had sold the funds to cash. Virgin Money accepts it would
reasonably have been able to obtain proof of income from Mr C before 11 March if it had
requested this from him. Unfortunately, Virgin Money delayed requesting this information 
from Mr C and the transfer was delayed. The internal complaint notes provided by Virgin 
Money show it recognised this but didnt explain how it would address the impact of the 
delay on Mr Cs transfer in its complaint response.
In its response to my provisional decision, Virgin Money highlighted that its terms and 
conditions state that it would sell the units on the same business day that the transfer had 
been agreed with the new ISA/PEP manager. The key features document clarifies what 
should happen when Virgin Money received a transfer request:
To transfer your ISA, we need to get a fully completed instruction from your new 
provider. Once weve got this, well sell your investments and transfer the money to 
your new provider. 
We can only complete transactions after weve received all the information we need, 
and have completed our checks.
In addition, the terms and conditions state, in section 7:
Transferring your ISA to another provider.
If you want to transfer your ISA to another provider, theyll tell you what you need to 
do  and theyll get in touch with us to arrange it. Once weve received the 
information we need, well arrange for the transfer to your new provider. 
Theres no dispute that Virgin Money had a signed transfer form on 11 March, but in this 
case, it sold the units in Mr Cs ISA and PEP despite being aware it didnt have the proof of 
income required to enable it to complete the transactions. Virgin Money didnt ask Mr C for 
the proof of income it required to release the funds until 12 May and received this on 18 
May. There was another delay until Virgin Money transferred the funds to the new provider 
on 7 June.
Virgin Money believes it acted fairly in selling Mr Cs funds on 11 March as it had received 
the signed transfer form on this day, but Virgin Money didnt tell Mr C it required proof of 
income until 12 May. In this case, Virgin Money sold the units to cash knowing it hadnt 
received all the information it needed before it could complete the transactions. The subsequent delay in Virgin Money requesting information it required led to Mr Cs funds 
being held in cash rather than remaining invested, and I think the key features and terms 
and conditions make it reasonably clear this shouldnt have happened. This resulted in the 
transfer completing after the dividend had been declared  a dividend I think Mr C would 
have been entitled to had Virgin Money not completed the transactions it did without the 
proof of income it said it required. So, Ive decided its reasonable that any remedy should 
take into account that Virgin Money sold the funds to cash without all of the information it 
needed to complete the transactions.
To put things right Ive decided that Virgin Money should recalculate the transfer amount 
using the value of the unit prices on the day the transfer actually completed in June. The unit 
prices should be adjusted to include any dividend Mr C may have been entitled to on his 
funds because of the delay. In this case, any dividend declared on 15 March would have 
been paid to Mr C on 15 May. As Mr C usually re-invested dividends, it seems fair and 
reasonable that Virgin Money should adjust the number of units Mr C may have held at the 
transfer date if any dividend to which he would have been entitled to had been reinvested.
If the recalculated amount is lower than the amount Virgin Money sent to the new provider,
no further redress is required. But, if the recalculated amount is higher, Virgin Money should
ask the new provider to calculate how many units the recalculated amount would have
purchased using the unit price of the funds Mr C invested in on the day the new provider
reinvested the funds. If the unit price is now higher than when Mr C invested, Virgin Money
should cover the additional cost of the purchasing the number of units Mr C could have
purchased. This ensures Mr C would have the amount of units within his new investment he
would likely have purchased at the time the transfer actually completed. 
Mr C has asked that Virgin Money provide him with the date, amount, and price of any units 
it is required to purchase, if any. I think this is a reasonable request and I think this is 
something I can ask of Virgin Money without issuing a further provisional decision. I would 
also point out to Mr C that if any units are purchased within his new ISA/PEP investment, 
these are more likely than not going to show up in statements with his new provider.
Mr C had to call Virgin Money several times to find out what was happening with his transfer.
Virgin Money gave him wrong information and then sent him a further statement of wealth
form to complete when this wasnt required. It took at least two months for Virgin Money to
clearly explain what it required to complete the transfer, and when it did, Mr C responded 
promptly to provide a payslip. Im satisfied that Mr C suffered more than minor distress and
inconvenience during this period and Virgin Money should pay Mr C £300 to reflect this.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint and that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd 
trading as Virgin Money should:
 Make an adjustment in the number of units Mr C may have held at the actual transfer 
date taking into account the re-investment of any dividends paid on 15 May;
 Recalculate the transfer value using the unit price when the actual transfer was 
completed;
 On behalf of Mr C, use the recalculated amount to purchase the number of units he 
could have purchased in his new investments when the transfer completed, and if 
necessary, cover the additional cost of buying the units if the prices have increased 
since the date the transfer completed:  Arrange for any additional units to be placed in Mr Cs new ISA and PEP investment 
and inform HMRC of the error; 
 Pay Mr C £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience the delay has caused him. 
Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd trading, as Virgin Money should provide Mr C with 
details of the amount and price of units it buys, if the recalculated amount is higher.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman