DRN-1162389
 
complaint
Ms T says Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
background
 
Ms T took PPI with a charge card in 1995. The PPI was sold to Ms T by another firm but 
Allianz has accepted responsibility for this complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. So I will refer 
to the seller as Allianz to make things easier. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ts complaint should be upheld but Ms T didnt agree. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
 
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ts complaint.
 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Ms T cant remember taking out the PPI policy on her card. Ive seen the application form 
and it appears to have been sold through the completion of a leaflet. Allianz says this was 
completed in the store.
 
To get the cover Ms T had to tick a box for it. Had she not wanted the cover she could have 
left this unticked. And Ms T has signed the application form to show she agreed with its 
contents. So, on balance, I think that Ms T chose to take the policy and did so knowing she 
had a choice about it, even if she cant remember that now, many years later.  
I think it most likely that Allianz didnt recommend that Ms T take the PPI, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. Instead Allianz had to provide information that was clear and not 
misleading so that Ms T could decide about the policy for herself. 
 
Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know 
about Ms Ts circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped her from 
buying it.
 
I say this because Ms T was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Ms T at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
 
And I think Ms T could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Ms Ts initial 
sick pay was good, full pay for at least 6 months, it would have dropped significantly after 
this time and the policy could have paid 15% of the balance until the claim stopped or the 
balance was repaid, whichever occurred first. And the PPI would also have provided cover if 
Ms T lost her job. So, as this would have been in addition to her sick pay, and as this would 
have protected the savings Ms T had put aside for a deposit on a house, and reduced her 
reliance on any help her partner may have been in a position to offer her, I think the policy 
could have been useful to her. 
 
So I dont think that Ms T lost out as a result of anything Allianz might have done wrong. 
 
my final decision
 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint about Allianz Insurance plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2018.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman