DRN-3961607
The complaint
Mr M complains that there is a fault with the solar panel system he had installed and paid for 
using his Nationwide credit card.
What happened
Mr M raised a claim with Nationwide in October 2021 under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) due to a fault with his solar panel invertor. He said that 
Nationwide agreed to pay for the work to be carried out providing it received evidence that 
the work was completed successfully. A contractor carried out the work and the payment 
was settled. However, Mr M says that the fault with the invertor remains. He contacted 
Nationwide about this but was told that there was no guarantee the works would resolve the 
fault and that the agreed work had been undertaken and paid for.
Nationwide said that Mr M paid for solar panels to be installed in 2014 using his credit card. 
In October 2021, he raised a claim saying the solar panels were faulty and while he had a 
warranty the company that provided it was no longer trading. Nationwide requested a report 
to demonstrate the faults and to be able to link these to the warranty. It says Mr M provided 
a quote for work rather than a report. It contacted the contractor that provided the quote for 
further clarity and was told the fault couldnt be confirmed to be with the invertor. Nationwide 
says it asked Mr M for a report to demonstrate where the fault lied but Mr M didnt wish to 
obtain this. It told Mr M it might be willing to cover the cost for faults with the PV strings. This 
work took place, and the cost was covered.
Nationwide says Mr M then raised a new Section 75 claim saying the work undertaken by 
the contractor hadnt resolved the issue. Nationwide contacted the contractor which said it 
had offered a diagnostic service which Mr M had declined. Nationwide then contacted Mr M 
to say it didnt uphold this claim as the contractor had performed the work as requested.
Mr M didnt accept Nationwides response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that while the contractor had carried out the 
works to repair the issues with the PV strings the fault with the invertor wasnt investigated or 
resolved. Although Mr M declined the diagnostic service, he thought that the contractor 
should have still carried out the investigation to identify the fault which could have prevented 
Mr M needing to make a subsequent Section 75 claim.
Our investigator noted that Mr M acquired the solar panel system with a 20-year warranty 
and the fault should be identified and rectified in line with the warranty. He said the warranty 
mentioned cover of the panels and the invertor. As the warranty provided was no longer 
trading, and Nationwide accepted the original repair, he thought Nationwide was now 
required to ensure the resolution of the ongoing issue with Mr Ms solar panel system.
Nationwide didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it had requested that Mr M 
provide a report of the faults when he raised his claim in October 2021, but Mr M hadnt 
done this. Instead, a quote was provided and when the contractor was contacted it said it 
couldnt confirm the fault. As Mr M wanted the work to go ahead it was agreed and the cost 
covered. Nationwide said that the contractor had carried out the agreed works, there had 
been no breach of contract and that Mr M was aware the work might not resolve the issue, 
so it didnt uphold Mr Ms subsequent Section 75 claim.
Nationwide noted our investigators comments and thought it was being asked to revisit the 
first claim outcome. It said if Mr M provided a diagnostic report then it would review his 
October 2021 claim. It said Mr M needed to evidence the faults with his solar panels, which 
could then be considered in regard to the warranty. Nationwide said it would refund the cost 
of this report if the claim was accepted.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the detail of which are set out below
Mr Ms solar panel system was installed in 2014 and he had a 20-year warranty. A fault 
arose in 2021. By that time both the company that installed the solar panels and the 
warranty provider were no longer trading. As Mr M was no longer able to claim under his 
warranty there had been a breach of contract. Mr M raised a Section 75 claim in October 
2021 as he had acquired the solar panel system using his Nationwide credit card. I agree 
that Mr M met the criteria for the Section 75 claim and can see that Nationwide assessed 
this.
Nationwide asked Mr M to provide a report of the issues. Mr M didnt provide a report and 
instead provided a quote for works. The quote was to correct a fault on a single PV string 
causing an invertor error, panel testing, inspection and safety check and post work testing 
and recommissioning. Nationwide contacted the contractor to get further information and 
was told the fault couldnt be confirmed to be with the invertor. 
The contractor carried out the work, Nationwide covered the cost and Mr M accepted this as 
settlement of his claim. However, the issue Mr M had noted with the invertor wasnt resolved. 
Having considered the evidence provided by the contractor and Nationwide about the scope 
of work agreed and carried out, and noting the comments before the work commenced about 
the fault not being confirmed, I do not find I can say that there was a breach of contract by 
the contractor or that the work it undertook wasnt of a satisfactory quality. Therefore, I agree 
with Nationwides comments in regard to the second Section 75 claim.
That said, as Mr M had raised the issue with the invertor and this appears to be covered by 
the warranty, I find that Nationwide is still potentially liable for the costs of any repairs 
needed. This issue should have been clearly identified at the outset when Mr M raised his 
claim in October 2021 but unfortunately Mr M wasnt prepared to have a diagnostics report 
at that time.
Therefore, I find the fair resolution at this stage is for a diagnostics report to be undertaken 
on Mr Ms solar panel system. Nationwide has said that Mr M should cover the cost of the 
report and if his claim is accepted this cost would be refunded. I can see Mr M was reluctant to have a diagnostics report initially but I find it reasonable that Mr M is required to provide 
evidence of the faults with his solar panel system as part of his claim and in the event his 
claim is accepted the cost of this report is refunded. In the event the report identifies faults 
with the solar panel invertor (or other issues causing the ongoing issues with Mr Ms solar 
panel system) Nationwide should, in the event these faults would have been covered by 
Mr Ms warranty, cover the costs of any required repairs.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision asking how the outcome differed from its 
communications in response to this complaint. It noted that the decision upheld the 
complaint but that a report needed to be undertaken before any action would be taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I assess each complaint on its own individual merits. While I take all relevant rules, 
regulations and guidance into account my decision is based on what I consider to be a fair 
and reasonable outcome given the specific circumstances of the complaint. As our 
investigator has explained the regulations that are particularly relevant to this case are 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Under Section 75, Mr M has, in certain circumstances, an equal right to claim against the 
credit provider (Nationwide) if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods or services. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 goods and services 
need to be provided to a satisfactory quality.
In this case, Nationwide agreed to cover the cost of repair that was undertaken in response 
to Mr Ms first Section 75 claim. This didnt fully resolve the issue with Mr Ms solar panel 
system and so he raised a second Section 75 claim. I do not think that Nationwide was 
wrong to decline Mr Ms second Section 75 claim. Nationwide offered to revisit the first 
Section 75 claim in the event evidence was provided to show that there were faults with 
Mr Ms solar panel system that would have been covered by his warranty. I agree with this 
and think Mr M should pay for the inspection report to be carried out and in the event this 
shows works are needed that would have been covered by the warranty then Nationwide 
should cover the cost of these. If further works are required at the cost of Nationwide, it 
should also refund Mr M the cost of the diagnostics report.
I issued a provisional decision to set out my findings as these differed in part from our 
investigators view. Nationwide made an offer in line with my recommendations in response 
to the view issued by our investigator and while I appreciate that the actions are subject to a 
report being provided given the potential action required and the timing of the offers made I 
am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
If, on receipt of an inspection report on Mr Ms solar panel system, it is found that there are 
repairs required that would have been covered by Mr Ms warranty the cost of such repairs 
should be covered by Nationwide Building Society and the cost of the inspection report 
refunded to Mr M.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should, as it had offered, take the 
actions stated above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman