DRN-3801038
The complaint
Mr O complains about the repairs that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made to his car and its 
level of service when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants damage to 
his cars dashboard repaired. 
What happened
Mr O made a claim on his policy when his car was damaged by a fire in a vehicle parked 
beside it. UKIs engineer outlined the needed repairs in a phone call. But Mr O was unhappy 
that the engineer wouldnt provide him with his report, and he found him to be rude. 
Mr O then provided a report from an independent engineer. This required the dashboard to 
be replaced due to heat transfer damage. UKIs engineer inspected the car again. He 
thought the damage to the dashboard was caused by the sun. But he added further repair 
items in his second report. 
UKI paid Mr O £250 compensation for the engineers conduct, for not providing its report to 
him, and for the delay in the repairs. It also reimbursed Mr O for the cost of the independent 
assessors report. Repairs were made, but Mr O was unhappy with them. He said the 
steering wheel had been scorched as well. But UKI didnt respond.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKIs offer 
of compensation and the reimbursement were fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by its delay in the claim, its communication with Mr O and for the 
engineers conduct. But she thought the damage to the dashboard was most likely caused 
by heat transfer rather than sunlight. She thought UKI should repair this, consider the 
damage to the steering wheel, and provide Mr O with a copy of its engineers report. 
Mr O replied that he agreed. But UKI replied that it thought it was unlikely that the fire would 
cause damage to the dashboard and steering wheel but not to the windscreen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that UKI upheld Mr Os complaint that all the damage to his car, apart from the 
dashboard, hadnt been included in its first repairs estimate. It also accepted that this had 
caused avoidable delays in the claim, that its engineers conduct had been unacceptable 
and that it should have provided Mr O with its report. 
And I think its payment of £250 compensation for this and reimbursement of Mr Os £160 
independent assessors fee was fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset 
this caused. This is because I think its in keeping with our published guidance for the level 
of impact caused. 
But, four months later, UKI still hasnt provided the report that it said Mr O was entitled to 
receive. And I can see that this has caused Mr O additional stress and frustration. Im 
satisfied that UKI should provide this report to Mr O and also pay him £100 further 
compensation for the trouble and upset this level of service has caused. This has been 
raised with UKI to give it a chance to comment.
Mr O told us that he was unhappy with the quality of the repairs made to his car. But hes 
lately told us that these were satisfactorily rectified by the garage. Mr O also told us that hed 
noted scorch damage to his steering wheel that hadnt been previously identified. I agree 
that UKI should reasonably consider this damage as part of his claim. If Mr O is unhappy 
with its response, the Investigator has already advised Mr O that he would need to raise this 
with UKI to give it a chance to respond before we can consider that further. 
UKI didnt uphold Mr Os complaint about the damage to his dashboard. It said:
our engineer believes this is general wear and tear, as there is no sign of any melting of 
the screen plastic covers. Our engineer believes the dash has deteriorated due to it being 
exposed to sunlight overtime, rather than heat. This is general weathering, and not related to 
the claim.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Mr O commissioned an independent engineer to assess the fire damage to his car. We think 
this is a reasonable approach when there is a dispute about the extent of needed repairs. I 
can see that the report lists various items around the car that had melted or been distorted 
by the fire. He concluded:
The damage listed above has all been sustained during the fire, the damage is a mixture of 
heat transfer damage and hot particles of metal fall out from the vehicle that was destroyed 
in the fire.
The engineer noted, amongst other damage,
5 - Dashboard - Damaged/heat transfer.
16 - Windscreen - Heat damaged, imperfections caused by fallout.
And he thought both of these items needed to be replaced. 
UKIs engineer then reinspected the car and agreed further repairs but, he said, 
the dash board has not been considered as in my opinion the heat has not caused the 
problem its general wear and tear as there was no melting of the screen plastic covers or 
weather seals around the car. I would suggest the dash has deteriorated due to age and 
sunlight and not exposure to heat.
Weve asked UKI to provide the schedule of works originally decided by its engineer. But it 
hasnt done this. It has provided a report on the repairs that were agreed after the second 
inspection. I can see that this doesnt include repairs or replacement of the dashboard or the 
windscreen. And it doesnt provide any commentary on the damage caused. 
Mr Os engineers report has photographs of the damage to the dashboard. These show 
significant warping and ripping. Mr O provided a photograph of the dashboard which he said 
was taken six months before the incident and no damage is evident. 
I note that there is no date stamp on the photograph. But Mr O had the car for two years 
before the incident and hes provided evidence to show that he maintained the cars 
condition. So I think the photographs taken previously must have been relatively recent and 
they show no sign of wear and tear or the damage later found. 
UKI thought the damage had been caused by the sun exposure and by the car being 
exposed to differences in temperature. But, Mr O kept his car garaged, and it had low 
mileage, so it had limited exposure to the sun. UKI provided examples of online discussions 
of similar damage. But I note the car owners were located in areas that are much hotter than 
UK. So I dont think this is a fair comparison.Also, I cant see that UKI has considered that excessive heat inside the car caused by the 
fire shrank the leather on the dashboard. So Im not satisfied that UKI has justified its 
decision that such damage would have occurred due to wear and tear rather than be caused 
by the fire. And so I think UKI should repair the damage to the dashboard as part of Mr Os 
claim. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr O £100 further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it not 
providing its engineers report four months after it agreed to do this. 
2. Repair Mr Os dashboard panels as part of his claim and consider the scorch damage to 
the cars steering wheel. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman