DRN-3375379
The complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen 
Financial Services (VWFS) didnt apply a payment by cheque to his account. He would like 
more compensation than the £100 VWFS offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
VFWS has explained that its payments team can only process cheques not to take 
instructions. So, it couldnt act on the instructions Mr C put  on the back of his 
cheque. VWFS has evidenced that Mr C  made seven similar payments in the past, 
each time contacting WFS to say how he wanted the payments to be made. So, I 
think , whilst he might not agree with VWFSs process, Mr C was aware of it
I agree with Mr C that the final response letter VWFS sent was confusing. It said if no 
preference was stated then  partial payments would be used to reduce monthly 
payments if no further instructions were received within  28 days . But I am still of the 
view that  Mr C was aware of  the need to give  specific instructions from the previous 
payments he had made.
Mr C has said he doesnt feel that VWFS handled his complaint correctly. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity that we investigate. However, in this case I think the 
time taken to deal with Mr Cs complaint is integral to  his complaint of how VWFS  
handled his cheque. From its records I can see that  VWFS  tried to contact Mr C 
several times unsuccessfully  by phone. It appears Mr C only wanted written contact 
 unfortunately that can impact on the time taken to resolve matters.
Mr C doesnt feel the £100 VWFS has offered as a gesture of goodwill for any 
inconvenience caused is sufficient  as it previously  paid him £75 for the same 
problem. Its unfortunate Mr C experienced another issue, but I think VWFSs offer is 
fair. Its final response letter was misleading, but I think Mr C didnt make the payment 
in accordance with  VWFS processes. And I think some delay was caused by Mr C 
not wishing to communicate by telephone.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Volkswagen that  Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as 
Volkswagen Financial Services (VWFS) should pay Mr C £100 as a gesture of goodwill for 
any inconvenience caused ,if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman