DRN-3640374
The complaint
Mr J has complained TSB Bank plc wont refund him £500 that he withdrew from a cash 
machine but never received.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr J went to the normal cash machine he used; to withdraw £200. The money 
was never dispensed from the cash machine despite Mr J waiting for around 20 minutes and 
trying to contact his granddaughter to assist him. He then drove to another cash machine. 
He couldnt take out any money as he was told hed gone over his daily withdrawal limit.
TSB confirmed that £500 had been withdrawn at the first cash machine Mr J used. They 
queried what had happened with the cash machine owner and temporarily refunded the 
money to Mr Js account (two transactions of £250). They received evidence the cash 
machine had balanced. They believed this meant Mr J had received his money so re-debited 
Mr J.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr J brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our 
investigator believed Mr Js testimony that hed not received any money. TSB did not feel 
they were obliged to provide any further evidence as they believed theyd complied with cash 
machine owner rules. Our investigator asked TSB to refund Mr J in full as he believed no 
cash was dispensed. He also believed it was most likely Mr J had pressed the button 5 
instead of 2 when he meant to withdraw £200.
TSB refused to refund Mr J. His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TSB and Mr J have told us. Ive also noted the detailed view dated 27 May 2022 that 
our investigator wrote. I dont feel the need to rerun some of what was contained in there.
TSB has pointed our service to LINK operating rules and has confirmed theyve followed 
these. I do not doubt thats the case. However TSB will be aware that our service is able to 
ask for additional evidence in cases where cash dispense at a machine has been disputed. 
This can include, but is not limited to, what may have been collected in the purge bin and 
any CCTV evidence. In this case neither of these pieces of evidence were reviewed. I have 
taken this into account. I think its more than likely this additional evidence may have 
provided exactly what was needed. I accept neither will now be available.
On the other hand Mr Js testimony has been powerful, consistent and convincing. TSB has 
confirmed Mr J has no history of similar disputes. Mr J has told us he remained at the cash 
machine for some time, as he was concerned it was broken, allowing no other customer to 
use it. The following transaction wasnt for another 20 minutes after Mr Js attempt to 
withdraw cash so backing up what he says.
I see no reason why Mr J would continue to stand around in this way if, in fact, cash was 
dispensed as requested. On balance I believe no cash was dispensed as requested.
I will be asking TSB to put things right.
Putting things right
I believe the evidence points to Mr J mistakenly entering a 5 when he meant to enter a 2 at 
the cash machine. These numbers are generally adjacent and its a common mistake to 
make. Particularly in summer months when the sun may be making it difficult to see what is 
being shown on the cash machine screen.
This explains why £500 was requested from the cash machine, as opposed to the £200 that 
Mr Js statements show he regularly withdrew. TSB will need to refund £500 to Mr J along 
with 8% simple interest a year from the date they re-debited that amount to his account.
TSB has told us they did nothing wrong. They also told Mr J as the cash machine is not one 
that TSB own, we are unable to refund funds to a customer that have not been provided to 
them by TSB. I find this statement rather surprising and misleading. TSB will know Mr J is 
their customer and only they can refund him. TSB always has discretion in these issues, and 
Im surprised they didnt exercise this in Mr Js case based on what he was telling them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct TSB Bank plc to:
Refund £500 to Mr J for money he didnt get at a cash machine; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from the time Mr J was re-debited to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman