DRN-2646352
The complaint
Mr I complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined his claim on his motor insurance 
policy when his car was stolen because it says it needs further information from him. He 
says hes suffered financially and hes been inconvenienced. 
What happened
Mr Is motor insurance policy started in September 2019. The premium for the year was 
around £447. 
In March 2020 Mr I made a claim on his policy as his car was stolen. Around June 2020, 
esure asked him for specific documents and information to validate his claim. Mr I provided 
some of these documents and a screenshot from a government website showing his driving 
licence details. But around July 2020, esure let Mr I know it couldnt accept a screenshot of 
the website. Instead it needed an access code so it could access his driving licence details 
itself. And it said it still needed acceptable proof hed purchased the car as the document 
Mr I had provided had several details crossed out. 
Mr I and esure went back and forth via email about the documentation requested. Around 
July 2020, Mr I said he thought what hed provided was enough to validate the claim and if 
esure didnt agree, he suggested it close his claim. 
After esure closed Mr Is claim, he raised a complaint about what had happened. And as it 
wasnt resolved, he asked our service to look into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Is 
complaint. He said its not our role to comment on the process or to require esure to change 
its procedure. He couldnt see why Mr I hadnt provided the information requested as he 
didnt think it was unreasonable. As Mr I didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know Mr I will be disappointed. Ill explain why.
Esure says its part of its usual process to ask for the documentation and information its 
requested from Mr I. And I havent seen anything in this case to make me think otherwise. I 
also dont think the information requested is unusual or unreasonable. 
Mr I doesnt think esure should need this information to validate his claim. But its for the 
insurer to decide what information it requires from policyholders when a claim has been 
made. And under the terms of the policy, policyholders must supply copies of the documents 
esure asks for. In this case, the information outstanding from Mr I is his code for esure to 
access his driving licence details and proof he purchased the car. 
I know Mr I has said hes already given esure the requested information. But Ive looked 
carefully at the information he has provided together with what esure has asked for. And Im 
satisfied Mr I hasnt given esure the documentation or information its asked for. 
Mr I has suggested hed be happy to give the access code to our service. But that wouldnt 
resolve things for him as the information would need to be passed to esure for the claim to 
be validated  our service cant do that on esures behalf. And it seems Mr I doesnt want the 
information to be provided to esure. 
Mr I thinks esure shouldve asked for this information when he first took out the policy so 
hes not willing to send it now. But its not unusual for insurance companies to sell insurance 
based on the information customers supply at the time of the application  and ask for 
further evidence of what was said later. 
I understand Mr I has told us this claim has affected him financially as he needs to be able to 
drive for his work. And its caused him significant inconvenience. So he wants the claim paid. 
But for the reasons Ive given, overall, Im not satisfied esures done anything wrong in this 
case. So I dont think it needs to do anything to make up for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman