DRN-3024862
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance plc (D&G) didnt handle his claim under 
his Appliance Insurance Protection Policy in the way it said it would during the sale.
What happened
Mr R took out appliance cover with D&G for his kitchen appliances and a television. He 
claimed under the policy for a faulty cooker hood and D&G explained hed need to contact 
the manufacturer. Mr R complained to D&G that he was told during the policy sale hed only 
need to make one phone call to the number provided and everything else would be sorted 
out for him. D&G looked into his complaint and explained that it could only deal with claims 
using that number if they were covered under the policy.
Our investigator didnt think D&G had done anything wrong because the claim wasnt 
covered under the policy so it couldnt arrange any repairs.
Mr R didnt agree because he felt his complaint had been misunderstood. He said he wasn't 
concerned about who repaired the appliance  he simply wanted to have it all sorted by 
making a single phone call to the number on the policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr R will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
The key issue here, as Mr R confirmed in his further comments to me, is that D&G didnt 
handle his claim after he made one phone call to the number provided. He says that was an 
important piece of information for him because he is a busy person and doesnt want to get 
caught up in making claims for his appliances. So, he thinks D&G failed to handle his claim 
in line with the policy.
Ive looked at the policy and it says:
 If you do need us were here to help. Its simple. 
1. Call us on (number given) or go online
2. Arrange a day that works for you
3. Well send out an expert engineer
On the face of it, it seems a simple process and I can see why Mr R is upset that his claim 
wasn't handled after one call. However, the important point here is that D&G can only handle 
the claim if its covered under the policy. I wouldnt expect D&G to try to deal with any claim 
for which it has no responsibility. Thats the case here and I think its where the confusion 
lies. 
Mr R had cover for his cooker hood so, when it developed a fault, he expected D&G to 
handle his claim. However, the cooker hood was still covered by the manufacturers warranty 
which means the contractual relationship was between Mr R and the manufacturer and not 
covered under the policy. I understand that Mr R doesnt think D&G made that clear during 
the sale, and he said he cant be expected to read and understand the fine print of the policy. 
Ive listened to the sale call, but I havent identified any evidence that D&G said it would take 
responsibility for the remaining period of the manufacturers warranty. During the call, D&G 
confirmed many times that the cover was for accidental damage not covered under the 
manufacturers warranty and gave examples of what that might be. 
Further, I note that Mr R said during the sale that he wanted to read the documents before 
committing to the policy. He had a cooling off period of 14 days during which he could check 
the cover provided. This indicates to me that Mr R intended to read the terms of the policy, 
so its fair to say that he shouldve been aware of the contents. So, Ive looked at the policy 
which says:
What this policy covers
Breakdown (after manufacturers guarantee)
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option) authorise a 
repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement product.
Accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee)
Both during and after the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, if 
your product suffers accidental damage (so that the product is no longer in good working 
order) we will (at our option) authorise a repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a 
replacement product.
Im satisfied that the policy makes it clear that any claim for breakdown is only covered once 
the manufacturers warranty has expired, so I think D&G fairly directed Mr R to the 
manufacturer to progress his claim. 
Further, under the policy exclusions, D&G states:
We shall not be liable for:
any breakdown cost already covered by any manufacturers suppliers or repairers 
guarantee or warranty on the product
I know Mr R isnt trying to say that D&G shouldve accepted his claim, but he does think it 
shouldve progressed it on his behalf once he called it on the published phone number. But 
that isnt a service I can reasonably say D&G should provide because its clearly excluded 
from the policy cover.
Finally, I understand Mr R is unhappy with the length of time he had to wait before his call to 
the claims number was answered. D&G apologised for the wait and paid Mr R £5 by way of 
apology. Having considered the circumstances, Im satisfied its payment is fair for the 30 
minutes call waiting time. I wont be asking D&G to pay any more. 
Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair for D&G to advise Mr R to call the manufacturer. I cant 
reasonably say that it shouldve progressed the claim on his behalf just because that same 
appliance is covered under his policy for accidental damage and for which there is a 
dedicated number for claims covered under the policy. I wont be asking D&G to do any 
more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman