DRN-2435442
The complaint
Mr S complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited declined his critical illness 
claim. 
Mr S is being represented by his solicitor, but for ease Ill refer to both their actions as that of 
Mr S. 
What happened
In August 2017 Mr S applied for a decreasing term assurance policy through an Independent 
Financial Advisor (IFA). As part of the application he was asked and answered no to the 
following questions:
Health - last 5 years
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Chest pain, palpitations or irregular heartbeat.
Health - last 12 months
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 12
months have you:
been referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example biopsy, scan, ECG?
In November 2017 Mr S visited his GP after he experienced palpitations whilst exercising at 
the gym. Following this appointment, Mr S was referred to a cardiology specialist. But he 
failed to attend the appointments in May and June 2018. 
Mr S was asked to check his answers in December 2017 when the policy started and failed 
to let L&G know if there was any change in his medical circumstances. L&G also sent 
reminders to Mr S in January 2018 asking him to check the form. 
Sadly, in November 2018 Mr S suffered a stroke. So, he made a claim to L&G. L&G 
reviewed the claim but decided to decline it. It said Mr S had failed to provide accurate 
answers to the above questions when the policy started in December 2017. L&G said Mr S 
had carelessly mispresented his medical history, and if he hadnt done so, it wouldve 
postponed his application until the investigations into his palpitations had been completed. 
But because Mr S didnt attend the investigations, L&G said it was entitled to treat the 
application as declined. So, it cancelled the policy and returned Mr Ss premiums. 
Mr S was unhappy with this decision, so he made a complaint. L&G reviewed the complaint 
but said it wasnt changing its decision to decline the claim and return the premiums. So 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the GP records showed 
that Mr Ss medical history had changed since he had applied for the policy. And that Mr S 
had the opportunity to review the questions he had previously given in December 2017. He 
said Mr S had misrepresented his medical history and L&G had shown the policy wouldve 
been postponed pending any test results. So, L&G was entitled to void the policy and return 
the premiums. 
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he didnt attend the 
appointment or disclose his medical history in December 2017 because he was no longer 
experiencing any problems and he didnt think there was an issue. He said the proper 
approach should be to review what the most likely result of the referral wouldve been and 
what L&G wouldve done with that information.  
Mr S provided a report from an independent GP which said if he had attended the referral, a 
24-hour electrocardiogram (ECG) wouldve been arranged and there is a high probability any 
such investigation wouldve been normal. So, its more likely than not that L&G wouldve still 
insured him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading) provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
Ive also considered the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and 
Treating Customers Fairly (the Code).
Im aware that Mr S has told us he doesnt think his stroke was related to his medical history. 
But Id like to stress that this isnt a relevant consideration here. What I need to look at is 
whether a misrepresentation occurred and, if so, what L&Gs underwriting decision would 
have been if the relevant information was disclosed at the point of application. What matters 
here is whether L&G wouldve offered Mr S the policy, not whether any misrepresentation 
was linked to his illness.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mr S made a misrepresentation when taking 
out this policy, and if so, whether L&G has shown it wouldnt have offered the policy at all or 
wouldve done so on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation?After considering the above questions, I believe its clear L&G wanted Mr S to confirm if he 
had ever experienced any of the above symptoms. He answered no  and accepts that he 
forgot to mention his visit to the GP in November 2017 when he was asked to check the 
answers he had given in December 2017. Ive seen the letters L&G sent to Mr S asking him 
to check these answers. They were correctly addressed as were the follow up letters it sent 
to him in January 2018. And Im satisfied there were also clear and suitable warnings about 
the failure to answer these questions correctly before and after the policy started. So, I 
believe L&G sufficiently brought these to Mr Ss attention.
Having reviewed the medical records and what Mr S has said, Im satisfied the questions 
were answered incorrectly. The GPs notes show that there was a meeting with Mr S about 
palpitations in November 2017 where it was noted it had happened to him twice in the last 
week. And Mr S again mentioned that he had a history of palpitations when he suffered the 
stroke in November 2018. So, Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation here. 
What would L&G have done differently? 
It would be unfair to require an insurer to honour a contract when the terms it agreed to were 
influenced by incorrect information. L&G has said Mr S was careless when he failed to 
answer the above question correctly. Im not satisfied he deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented his medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise his actions as 
careless here. The questions L&G asked in its application were clear and Mr S was given 
clear warnings about not providing an accurate medical history. And his GP appointment 
was also only a short time before the policy started in December 2017. 
So, where there has been a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says insurers can re-
underwrite the policy as they wouldve done if theyd received correct answers. 
L&G has provided us with information from its underwriting department, including parts of the 
underwriting manual it used at the time to set out its general approach to new applications. 
Ive looked at this evidence independently and have taken into account that there wasnt any 
follow-up investigation by a specialist of Mr Ss symptoms in 2018. 
L&Gs normal approach wouldve been to postpone the application and await the outcome of 
the investigations which would explain why Mr S was having the palpitations. At the time the 
policy started there was still an ongoing investigation that was yet to be concluded. Even if it 
seemed to Mr S at the time that there was nothing for L&G to worry about or be suspicious 
of, Im satisfied L&G shouldve been made aware of the GP appointment in November 2017 
before the policy started. And L&G has shown that if it had, it wouldve postponed Mr Ss 
application pending the results of these investigations. 
The Code states that where an underwriting decision would have been postponed, insurers 
should try to determine what the ultimate underwriting decision would have been. If it isnt 
possible to work out whether the insurer would have offered any cover, or if the deferral 
decision would have required the customer to re-apply at a future date, then this should be 
treated as a decline.
Mr S has provided a statement from an independent GP which states its more likely than not 
he wouldve been given the all clear if he had attended his appointments with cardiology in 
2018. This is based on Mr Ss medical history from before and after his stroke. 
Ive considered this evidence carefully. Having done so, Im not persuaded this statement is 
enough to satisfy me L&G wouldve accepted an application for Mr S if he had attended the 
appointments. Its possible L&G may have accepted the policy if it had clear specialist evidence before the stroke that Mr Ss symptoms were no longer a risk or one it was willing 
to accept based upon a specialists diagnosis and its underwriting criteria. But L&G doesnt 
have this information due to the misrepresentation of Mr Ss medical history. So, Im satisfied 
it isnt possible, based on the medical evidence Ive seen, to say whether or not L&G 
wouldve offered cover here. 
Ive noted that within the underwriting criteria it mentions that L&G wouldve postponed 
Mr Ss application and asked him to reapply once he had the results of the referral. And Ive 
mentioned above that the Code says in this instance L&G can treat his application as a 
decline. 
So, Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have been offered a policy by L&G if hed disclosed his full 
medical history, and as a result a claim wouldnt have been paid. This means I think it was 
fair for L&G to cancel the policy and return the premiums paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman