The complaint
Mrs T complains about the service she received from Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited  trading as LV=, in relation to a claim on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T was Involved in an accident with a third-party vehicle when a package fell from a lorry 
and caused damage to her car. The car was deemed a total loss. And unfortunately, the 
third-party vehicle wasnt traceable. 
Mrs T complains that LV didnt tell her that she could contact the MIB (Motor Insurance 
Bureau) to make a personal injury claim. She has since contacted the MIB and has got some 
compensation for some of the injuries she sustained in the accident. Mrs T says that she 
may not have got compensation at all if she hadnt found out about this service.
LV responded to Mrs Ts complaint to apologise that it didnt let Mrs T know that the MIB 
might be an option for a personal injury claim. It also apologised for telling her that it had 
referred her to the MIB when it hadnt. To compensate Mrs T, it offered to reimburse her the 
£200 excess shed paid and £100 in additional compensation. Mrs T didnt think this was 
enough and so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ts complaint. He thought what LV had offered Mrs T in 
compensation was enough. He agreed that LV could have handled the claim better than it 
did and while he agreed Mrs T had been inconvenienced, he didnt think that she had been 
seriously impacted by LVs actions. 
Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator, she says that LV consistently lied to her about 
aspects of her claim  saying it had referred her to the MIB when it hadnt. Shes also said 
that LV caused confusion as to whether she had legal expenses cover. Mrs T feels she has 
been let down by LV. And that she and her daughter have suffered permanent mental 
injuries from the accident. She doesnt feel that a refund of the excess, which is £200 and an 
additional £100 is enough to compensate her for whats happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Because LV couldnt locate the third-party vehicle, it wasnt possible for Mrs T to make a 
claim for personal injury against them. I agree that it would have been helpful if LV had let 
Mrs T know about the MIB  and that she could have potentially put in a claim to them. But 
DRN-1993111LV werent obliged to tell Mrs T about the MIB  so they didnt do anything wrong in not 
explicitly telling her. And Mrs T did eventually find out about the services of the MIB, so she 
hasnt lost out financially in this respect. 
I can imagine it must have been frustrating for Mrs T being given inconsistent information 
from LV in relation to the legal expenses cover. But again, I dont think that in the end, she 
has been financially impacted by this. And LV has offered Mrs T compensation for the 
customer service issues she experienced  I think this is fair.
I dont doubt what Mrs T says about the accident, I can only imagine how both her and her 
daughter must be feeling. And while I dont wish to downplay the difficult situation they found 
themselves in, I dont think I can hold LV responsible for how they feel as a result of the 
accident. 
I understand that Mrs T has raised the point that she shouldnt have had to pay an excess 
anyway  and so LVs offer to refund this is something that it should have done regardless. 
But having looked at the policy documents for Mrs Ts policy, I can see it says If your 
schedule shows that you have an excess, you must pay that as the first part of any claim. 
This term isnt unusual, and its in line with most other motor insurance policies, so I dont find 
this to be unfair or unreasonable.
So, Mrs T would have still needed to pay the £200 excess. LV didnt have to refund this 
amount and has done so as a gesture of goodwill. This, along with the £100 it has offered as 
compensation, in my view, feels like a fair way to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman