DRN-2433764
The complaint
 Mrs O complains about JMP Partnership (IW) Ltd and their failure to escalate her mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) complaint through the Financial Ombudsman 
Services (FOS) full process. 
What happened
 Mrs O instructed JMP to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI on a mortgage with lender B. A 
final response was issued by lender B in August 2018. But Mrs O was unhappy with this 
response, and JMP escalated Mrs Os claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
October 2018. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provided an outcome in November 2018. And they gave 
Mrs O the opportunity to escalate her claim to the Ombudsman if she remained unhappy. 
But they set a two-week deadline for her to respond confirming she disagreed with their 
findings. JMP didnt pass this information onto Mrs O, and no response was given to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. So, Mrs Os claim was closed.
In 2019, Mrs O chased JMP for an update on her claim. She was told the claim hadnt been 
upheld by the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mrs O was unhappy with this, so she 
contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service directly where she was told she was unable to 
re-open her claim as shed missed the deadline respond. Mrs O was unhappy with this, so 
she complained to JMP.
Mrs O felt shed lost the opportunity to have her claim decided by an Ombudsman. And 
because of this, she felt shed lost out financially. So, she wanted JMP to compensate her 
for these losses. JMP didnt respond to Mrs Os complaint within the eight weeks they are 
given. So, Mrs O referred her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman for us to 
consider.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She explained she was unable to 
speculate on whether the Ombudsman wouldve found in Mrs Os favour. Because of this, 
she explained she couldnt say for certain that Mrs O had suffered a financial loss and for 
this reason, couldnt compensate her for this. But she did think Mrs O had lost the 
opportunity to receive a decision from the Ombudsman. And she felt it was JMPs error that 
had caused this. So, she thought JMP should pay Mrs O £100 to recognise this loss of 
opportunity. JMP accepted this view. 
But Mrs O didnt. She didnt think the £100 was enough to recognise her loss of opportunity 
as she felt her claim couldve been worth up to £20,000. So, she wanted JMP to compensate 
her for the value of what she felt the claim was worth. As Mrs O didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Mrs O. Its not in dispute that 
Mrs O believed shed been mis-sold PPI. So, I can understand why she wouldve been left 
both upset and frustrated when she realised she was unable to progress her claim through 
all the channels available to her. And Ive considered this at length when making my 
decision.
Its not in dispute that JMP failed to communicate the Financial Ombudsman Services initial 
decline to Mrs O. And because of this, Mrs O lost the opportunity to respond within the two-
week deadline she was set. So, Im satisfied JMP did something wrong in this situation.
As I think JMP did something wrong, Ive then considered what I think JMP should do to 
fairly compensate Mrs O for their error.
Putting things right
 After considering the testimonies of both JMP and Mrs O, I think its likely Mrs O wouldve 
escalated her claim as she believes she has a valid PPI claim. So, I dont think she wouldve 
accepted the Financial Ombudsman Services initial correspondence declining her claim. 
But Im unable to say for certain whether the Financial Ombudsman Service wouldve upheld 
the claim when it was escalated. Because of this, it wouldnt be fair for me to consider the 
financial loss Mrs O thinks shes suffered. This is because Mrs Os claim couldve been 
declined again at the Ombudsman stage. And in this situation, if I directed JMP to pay Mrs O 
the value of what the claim may have been worth, Mrs O would be left in a significantly better 
position than she wouldve been. And its my role to place Mrs O back in the situation she 
wouldve been in, not a better one.
Had JMP communicated the Financial Ombudsman Services initial decline to Mrs O as I 
wouldve expected them to do, Mrs O wouldve been able to escalate her claim to the 
Ombudsman. And its this loss of opportunity Im able to consider. As Ive explained above, I 
think it wouldve been upsetting for Mrs O when she realised shed lost that opportunity. And 
shes been left in a position where she feels as though shes lost out. And I think this has 
caused Mrs O some distress.
Our investigator recommended JMP pay Mrs O £100 to recognise this upset and distress. 
And this recommendation falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it not been 
suggested. I think this payment reflects the upset JMPs error caused Mrs O but also takes 
into consideration our inability to speculate on whether the Ombudsman at the Financial 
Ombudsman Service wouldve overturned the initial decline. So, I direct JMP to pay Mrs O 
£100 to recognise the impact their error has caused her.
My final decision
 For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Os complaint about JMP Partnership (IW) Ltd 
and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs O £100 to recognise the Mrs Os loss of opportunity to escalate her claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman