DRN-3745857
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) lent to 
him irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2015 Mr G opened a credit card account with Tesco. He had an initial account 
limit of £3,200 which was increased twice over the following years until it reached £8,200 in 
April 2018. In May 2018 Mr G opened a second credit card account with Tesco which had a 
limit of £7,700.
Mr G says that Tesco shouldnt have lent to him because he couldnt afford it. He says if 
Tesco had done checks on him which it should have done it would have realised he had a lot 
of debt.
Tesco says that it did all the necessary and proportionate checks and these showed that Mr 
G could afford the credit that was extended to him.
Our investigator thought that Tesco shouldnt have lent to Mr G. They thought Mr G was so 
indebted elsewhere that Tesco should have realised he would struggle with any more debt. 
Our investigator said that Tesco should refund any interest and charges paid by Mr G.
Tesco disagreed. It submitted that it wasnt responsible for Mr G sustaining his credit card 
debt for a long period because it considered he could have afforded to pay more but chose 
not to. 
As Tesco disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Gs complaint.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could afford 
to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, Mr Gs borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
 
Tesco says its credit check results didnt show anything negative to suggest it would have 
been unreasonable to have provided Mr G with the credit. It says its assessment showed 
that Mr G was in full-time employment with an annual income of about £20,000 (although 
this is referred to elsewhere as £30,000 which better explains Mr Gs net monthly income) 
and this provided a net monthly income of about £1,800. He had an existing credit card with 
an outstanding balance of £9,539 and other unsecured lending of £24,842. An assessment 
of his net disposable income indicated that he had disposable income of just over £300 a 
month. He had no CCJs, defaults or bankruptcies.
Tesco says that these checks showed that Mr G could afford the repayments on his credit 
card in a sustainable way. 
Ive reviewed the outcome of those checks and I disagree with Tesco. Mr Gs existing 
borrowing equated to almost 20 months of his net income (assuming he was earning 
£30,000). There was evidence that Mr G had taken 17 cash advances on his existing credit 
card in the previous three months, five of which were in the month before his application for 
this credit card. This is high cost borrowing and indicates that a consumer doesnt have 
ready access to other less expensive sources of cash. Mr Gs credit rating was low (although 
it was higher than Tescos cut off limit, which was very low). If it was assumed Mr G was 
paying off 5% of his revolving credit each month (that is the lowest percentage I consider 
reasonable if Mr G were to clear that credit card or catalogue shopping debt in a sustainable 
manner) and not spending anything more, then the combined cost of his monthly loan, 
mortgage and credit card payments was over £1,400. This doesnt take account of any other 
essential expenditure such as utilities, transport, council tax or food.
So while Tescos check may have been proportionate I dont think it used the information it 
obtained from them appropriately. I think it should have sought a better understanding of his 
financial situation before lending to him. It should have queried how he was meeting his 
existing credit and household costs from his limited income. I think it should have been 
evident to Tesco that Mr G wouldnt have had the capacity to sustainably repay the account. 
It follows that I agree with our investigator that Tesco was wrong to lend to Mr G.
Our investigator went into considerable detail about the further credit limit increases on this 
card. I do not think this is necessary for me to do here, as I have decided the credit should 
never have been provided to Mr G. 
In May 2018, Tesco gave Mr G another credit card, this time with a limit of £7,700. This was 
in addition to the first credit card which by then had a limit of £8,200, making a total limit 
across both cards of £15,900. 
Tesco has said it doesnt have any evidence of the checks it did for the second card. It relies 
on the fact that it says checks would have been completed the month before he applied 
when it gave him a credit limit increase on his first card. But it hasnt provided the full 
evidence of those checks either. It has just said that he wasnt in arrears, had no defaults, 
CCJs or bankruptcies and wasnt over his limit. It hasnt provided the same data it supplied 
this service with for the initial credit card opening. And I know from what Tesco supplied for 
that first card that arrears and defaults etc did not provide the full picture of Mr Gs financial 
circumstances at that point. I have no evidence to suggest Mr Gs financial circumstances 
had changed significantly for the better up to that point. Indeed, Mr G has provided evidence 
in the form of bank statements which shows that he was considerably overdrawn in his 
current account each month in the year leading up to the provision of the second card. So, I 
am not satisfied Tesco made sufficient checks to establish whether the substantial further 
provision of credit was affordable for Mr G, or, if it did, I am not satisfied it acted 
appropriately on the information it obtained from those checks.In May 2021 Mr G contacted Tesco for support because he was struggling with debt. He 
filled out an income and expenditure form which Tesco says showed that he and his partner 
had high net disposable income. Tesco says: 
[Tesco] think[s] rather than truly being in financial difficulty, his gripe is with the interest hes 
being charged each month.
In later correspondence, Tesco says that it demonstrated to this service that Mr Gs 
circumstances were only ever improving, and that Mr G was able to pay far more than he 
was willing to.
While I find this approach from Tesco quite astonishing, and I do not agree with Tescos 
analysis of Mr Gs financial situation, I do not think that Mr Gs circumstances in 2021 are 
relevant to whether the lending decisions in 2015 and 2018 were appropriate. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco ought to have opened either account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreements. But I think Mr G should 
pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework the accounts removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance on either or both cards, this should be 
refunded to Mr G along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse 
information regarding this account from Mr Gs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the remaining amount. Once Mr G has
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be
removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr G a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank and 
direct it to pay compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman