DRN-4052411
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the level of service received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
under her homecare insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M took out a homecare policy with British Gas in 2021 after calling them to report a 
heating system fault. Pre-December 2021 British Gas did work on Mrs Ms heating system. 
Mrs M was dissatisfied with the level of workmanship and the customer service provided. My 
colleague decided our Service didnt have the power to consider the complaint about these 
matters as they stemmed from non-insurance related activity. 
Post December 2021 British Gas carried out further work as a heating system fault remained 
despite several visits and repairs being done. And repairs were finally successful during a 
visit in mid-January 2022 when a powerflush, amongst other things, was completed. Mrs M 
was dissatisfied with the level of workmanship, the customer service provided, and being left 
without heating and hot water for roughly three weeks. My colleague decided our Service did 
have the power to consider the complaint about these matters as they stemmed from 
insurance-related activity. So, Ive gone on to consider these aspects of the complaint. 
When Mrs M contacted British Gas initially, a fault with the heating system was present. And 
this required extensive repair works and further visits, and another powerflush, which 
contributed to repairs being successful in mid-January 2022. I think given the works required 
here, its fair to say the fault Mrs M reported was complex, as had it been a straightforward 
issue, extensive upgrade works wouldnt have been required. It also seems further issues 
were identified along the way which meant further works  such as a replacement pump  
were required. So, I cant fairly hold British Gas responsible for all of this. 
I say this because part of the delay (and the complexity of the repair) was the result of 
extensive works being undertaken and flushing the system multiple times  which ultimately 
contributed to restoring the system in mid-January 2022. 
That said, I think British Gas let Mrs M down here at times. During this time, her and her 
household were without a functioning heating system. Communication was poor and visits 
had to be rescheduled which British Gas say was due to staff sickness. The final repairs 
(including a powerflush) were scheduled to take place but in early-January 2022, British Gas 
called to reschedule this for roughly a week later, at short notice. While British Gas say this 
was due to staff sickness, they also knew Mrs M was vulnerable and following their 30 
December 2021 visit, it still took them a few weeks to come out and complete the final 
repairs. It follows compensation is appropriate. 
British Gas has recognised they could have handled things better and paid Mrs M £280 
compensation for all their failings  both pre and post December 2021. Im satisfied this 
amount in the circumstances is fair, reasonable, and proportionate. I say this because I find 
the delays were largely attributed to the complex nature of the initial fault Mrs M reported, 
and the requirement for extensive works to be done. And while this was ongoing, further 
problems were identified that meant more visits and repairs took place. But Mrs M was on 
the priority customer register and was made to wait  without a functioning heating system  
longer than what was reasonable for the final repairs to be done. Its for that reason I think 
compensation is due, but as mentioned above, Im satisfied British Gas compensation 
amount offered is fair. So, I wont be requiring them to take any further action. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs M. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve her dispute with British Gas  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman