DRN-3774608
The complaint
Miss H has complained about her property insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
because of the price it has been charging her for cover.
What happened
Miss H had cover with Lloyds since 2011. Her policy documents showed her as having a 
99-bedroom home. This was corrected in 2016 to two bedrooms. In 2021, following a 
complaint about the price of cover, Lloyds reviewed what it had been charging Miss H. It 
noted that based on other products and charges it would have made since 2016, Miss H was 
due a refund. It initially paid her £210.31 plus interest, but later said it would increase this to 
£254.07, plus interest. But it didnt agree to re-rate the premiums charged before 2016 
based on the correct number of bedrooms.  
Miss H, represented by her Power of Attorney, complained to this service. Lloyds told us that 
the number of bedrooms recorded was likely due to default data being recorded and hadnt 
necessarily affected the policy price.
Our Investigator felt it was most likely that the number of bedrooms had impacted the price 
charged. So she felt that Lloyds revision of prices, from 2016 only, was unfair and 
unreasonable. She said it should recalculate the premium from 2011 onwards, based on the 
correct number of bedrooms. Further, if that showed Miss H had been overcharged for 
cover, any additional overspend should be reimbursed to her, plus interest*.
Lloyds said the policy, which contained default data, had been given an average price. It 
said it wouldnt look to correct that type of detail retrospectively.
The complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has told us two things about the number of bedrooms. First that it isnt necessarily the 
case that the price for cover was based on the property having 99 bedrooms. And second 
that 99, being a default figure, meant the policy for the property was given an average 
price. So it seems its most likely that the price Miss H was charged for cover didnt truly 
reflect the risk she presents to it  because average pricing was applied and the number of 
bedrooms she actually has wasnt used. And I am satisfied that the number of bedrooms a 
property has is a common influencing factor in the pricing of premiums. So Miss H hasnt 
been charged fairly because the risk she has paid for is not a true representation of the 
risk she presents to Lloyds as a policyholder. Miss H may not have been aware of that 
though. So I do think Lloyds should re-price the cover for Miss H from 2011 based on the 
correct number of bedrooms.
Once Lloyds has determined what the correct price should have been, if that is less than 
what Miss H was charged, the difference should be refunded to her, with interest* applied to 
each reimbursed sum from the date the policy related to that charge renewed, until 
settlement is made. 
Putting things right
I require Lloyds to re-calculate Miss Hs cost for cover from 2011 onwards based on her 
home having two bedrooms. Once done, and the results are comparted to what Miss H 
actually paid, any difference, over and above what was paid, should be refunded to Miss H, 
plus interest* on each reimbursed sum from the date the policy related to that charge 
renewed, until settlement is made. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman