DRN-4125200
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society registered a fraud marker against him 
which prevented him from getting a bank account. He said that because of this, he hasnt 
been able to receive his pension payments. 
What happened
Mr W has said hes been trying to open a current account in order to get his pension 
payments paid into it, but hes been unable to do so. He said he found out in August 2022 
that Nationwide registered a fraud marker against him on 21 December 2016, and this is the 
reason he has been unable to open a bank account.
Mr W said he has a mortgage with Nationwide and said his wife made some cash 
overpayments to the mortgage account in 2016 but he felt the balance was incorrect. So he 
went into a local branch and provided Nationwide with some deposit slips showing the 
overpayments that his wife made, so that they could rectify the difference in the balance. He 
said that Nationwide photocopied his receipts and there was a discrepancy with the dates. 
He said there was a payment deposit slip for £1,000 which was handwritten by a member of 
staff and Nationwide said that Mr W handwrote it and used that against him.
Mr W complained to Nationwide about the CIFAS marker, which is an entry on a fraud 
prevention database, and they said they did this as it was a true reflection of how his 
account was being used. 
Mr W wasnt happy with what Nationwide said so he brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt uphold 
the complaint. He said that due to the passage of time, there was limited information 
provided by Nationwide but based on what he did have, he thought that Nationwide acted 
reasonably when applying the fraud marker. 
After the investigator asked for more information, Nationwide said that the fraud marker was 
applied because of the submission of altered documents in support of a mortgage 
application. Mr W said he didnt make a mortgage application in 2016. 
The investigator thought that Nationwide possibly made an error when they said the marker 
was applied because of altered documents in relation to a mortgage application, but more so 
because of the altered documents more generally. 
Mr W disagreed and said he has lost over £10,000 in his pension due to Nationwides 
wrongdoing. He said that he didnt alter the receipts.
As Mr W remained unhappy, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through the complaint, I agree with the outcome that the investigator made, Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide registered a fraud marker against Mr W on 21 December 2016. These markers 
usually remain on someones record for six years so as it stands, this marker has now been 
removed against Mr W. Mr W said he has also since managed to open a bank account with 
another bank as the marker is no longer showing.
Due to the passage of time, Nationwide have limited information which shows why the 
marker was registered against Mr W in 2016. This isnt unusual as lenders are only normally 
required to hold documents and data for six years. They have however managed to provide 
us with some information as well as copies of the receipts and bank statements. 
I can see from what has been supplied, that Nationwide had concerns about altered receipts. 
They did say that documents were altered in relation to an application but having looked at 
what has been provided, I agree with the investigator that I dont think Mr W applied for any 
additional borrowing or loans during that year. But it seems more likely that the concerns 
were surrounding two receipts where one was handwritten and the other one had a manual 
date change written on it. Either way, these seem to be the concerns that Nationwide had 
which seems to be the reason they registered the fraud marker against Mr W.
The first receipt is handwritten and dated 4 October 2016 and is a receipt for a deposit of 
£1,000. Most receipts are printed unless there is an issue with technology which means they 
would need to be handwritten by a member of staff. 
Nationwide said they did not handwrite this receipt and believe that Mr W did so. There is a 
reference number that is also showing on the receipt, but Nationwide cannot confirm if this is 
a legitimate transaction reference number or not due to how long ago it was. If there was an 
issue with technology on the day that Mr W went into his local branch and was given a 
handwritten receipt by Nationwide, they would have logged this entry not only on the receipt, 
but in other credit logs they use when these situations happen. They would then normally go 
through all the logs from that day and pay or withdraw money from customers accounts 
depending on what they wanted to do once their systems are back up and running.
Having looked at the bank statements that Nationwide have provided for 2016, there is no 
entry for a credit of £1,000 on the 4 October 2016. There is however a credit of £1,000 
showing on 6 December 2016. 
There is another receipt for a credit of £600 from a printed receipt. The date which has been 
printed has been scribbled out and a handwritten date of 6 June has been added to it  this 
was for the same year in 2016.  The bank statements do not show a credit of £600 on 6 
June 2016, but again there is a credit on 6 December 2016 for this amount. 
I havent been provided with any other receipts to show these transactions in December by 
either party so its not immediately obvious if these are the same or different transactions. 
The crux of the matter here is the handwritten receipt and the one that had the date 
amended  which Nationwide appear to have had concerns about in 2016. With the limited 
information I have, its very difficult to determine whether Nationwide registered the fraud 
marker fairly or not at that time. We would have expected Nationwide to ask further 
questions surrounding their concerns before applying the fraud marker but as this happened 
a long time ago, its not evident what was done at that time. The fraud marker has since 
been removed and Mr W said he has been able to open a bank account with another bank.
I cant agree that the fraud marker is the reason that Mr W was unable to open a bank 
account as I can see that he did have a current account with Nationwide, but this has since 
been closed for other reasons. And the reason it was closed wasnt because of the fraud 
marker so Im not persuaded that Mr W wasnt able to open a bank account  because he did have one during this period of time. And almost everyone is entitled to at least a basic 
bank account in order to have money paid into it to help them with their day to day living.
In addition to this, Ive seen Nationwides letter to Mr W from October 2022 where they said 
they would consider Mr W for another current account, and he should contact them if he 
wanted to go ahead with this. But Mr W said he didnt want to deal with Nationwide anymore. 
So again, I cant agree that the sole reason for Mr W not having a bank account was to do 
with the actions of Nationwide. 
I appreciate the difficult situation that Mr W found himself in as I know he was unable to open 
a bank account to get his pension credits paid into it, but I cant say based on the evidence I 
have been provided with, that Nationwide acted unfairly.
I know that my outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but I wont be upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman