DRN-3356761
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs Ps complaint relates to a mortgage they held with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax (BoS). They are unhappy that BoS delayed responding to a request to sell 
the property at a shortfall in 2018 and instead started legal proceedings to possess the 
property. The property was later sold in possession for £80,000 less than the amount of the 
previous offer. Mr and Mrs B have said that if BoS had responded at the time they could 
have either accepted the offer or reduced the asking price further to attract more interest in 
the property. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs P had a mortgage on their home with BoS. They experienced financial 
difficulties over a significant period and in 2018 they were trying to sell their home. As it 
wasnt selling on the open market, they looked into selling it to a commercial buyer, which 
buys properties at below market price, but does so quickly and without estate agents fees 
etc. being payable. Mr M and Mrs P have told us they received an initial offer of £400,000 via 
this route.  That offer would have been subject to revision following the property being 
inspected by the buyer and it is usual for the final offer to be for a lower amount than the 
initial offer.
Mr M spoke to BoS in October 2018 and asked about selling the property for less than the 
amount outstanding on the mortgage. He mentioned having received an offer of £400,000 
from the commercial buyer that had been approached. The shortfall sale process was 
explained to Mr M and he was told that until BoS had all the information it needed, it couldnt 
say if it would agree to sell at a shortfall. The timescale for the process was given. Mr M said 
that he and Mrs P would see if they could get more than theyd been offered via the estate 
agent. 
Mr M and Mrs P have recently said that Mr M told BoS during the October 2018 conversation 
that it was being less than helpful. He said he explained to BoS that they needed a definitive 
answer about the offer before obtaining a formal offer from the commercial buyer. They said 
that this was the case, because to obtain a formal offer from the commercial buyer they 
would need so sign a contract for sale with it, which would cost them money to withdraw 
from. As they were in financial difficulties already, they didnt want to place themselves in a 
worse financial position.
At the beginning of December 2018 Mr M contacted BoS again and asked what sort of offer 
BoS would accept for a shortfall sale. He was told it couldnt tell him as it would depend on 
the valuation obtained on the property and be decided by senior management. The process 
was explained to Mr M again. At this point he told BoS that he was selling an overseas 
property for around the same amount the UK property was being marketed and some of the 
equity from that could be used to pay off any shortfall on the UK sale. Mr M said that he was 
going to try to get a firm offer on the property and would keep BoS updated. 
Mr M has recently said that he doesnt remember being told the above in December 2018, 
but acknowledges that it is possible. Mr M and Mrs P questioned why the valuation of the 
property was relevant to whether a shortfall sale was acceptable to BoS, as how much was 
owed on the mortgage was known. 
A couple of weeks later, Mr M provided BoS with an update. He confirmed that he and Mrs P 
were looking to sell the property through a couple of commercial buyers. It had been 
confirmed that the buyers had arranged valuations to be done on the property in the middle 
of January 2019. BoS was also told there were viewings booked through the estate agent 
that was marketing the property conventionally. Mr M confirmed the overseas property was 
still on the market and they were hopeful it would sell in the early part of the following year. 
He explained that there was a second charge loan on the UK property and the money from 
the sale of the overseas property would clear that and could be used to cover the shortfall on 
the UK mortgage if necessary.
In early March 2019 Mr M had another conversation with BoS about the mortgage. He 
confirmed that he had sold the property (for an amount below the mortgage amount) and the 
shortfall would be covered from the sale of the overseas property, although the completion 
dates for the two sales might not match. BoS told him at that point that as he had a way to 
pay off the mortgage, it wouldnt consider the offer under the shortfall process, as that was 
only used when the consumer didnt have a way to pay the shortfall. Mr M raised the issue of 
the legal action BoS had started and said that he didnt understand why BoS was doing this 
 he didnt think there was any point in this happening given the offers on the UK and 
overseas properties.
Mr M complained at this point; saying that he wasnt getting sensible answers and BoS 
wasnt thinking with a business head. 
On 25 March 2019 BoS responded to the complaint and accepted that the service to Mr M 
and Mrs P had fallen short of what it should have been. It apologised that Mr M and Mrs P 
hadnt been given the correct information about shortfall sales, but confirmed the correct 
process had (during the complaint process) been explained. The shortfall process was then 
set out in writing in the letter. BoS also acknowledged that it hadnt given a definitive answer 
in relation to the shortfall offer Mr M had told it about. It said it would pay £300 into their 
account to compensate them for the inconvenience this had caused them. 
BoS went on to confirm the offer from the commercial buyer didnt meet the criteria for it to 
consider a shortfall sale. This was because the offer hadnt been received due to the 
property being placed on the open market. Further comment was made about the legal 
process to repossess the property that had been started. BoS told Mr M and Mrs P, if they 
werent happy with the outcome of their complaint, they could refer the complaint to this 
service within six months.
A possession order, with a possession date of 7 May 2019, was issued by the courts on 
3 April 2019.  Subsequently, Mr M and Mrs P asked BoS solicitors about handing the 
property back. They were told what needed to be done, but despite the keys having been 
returned, there were some concerns about the signatures on one of the documents that 
were sent to the solicitors, which Mr M and Mrs P were told about. As all the paperwork was 
not satisfactory, BoS applied to the courts for an eviction date and the property was 
possessed in July 2019.
Following this Mr M and Mrs P complained about the information they had been given by 
BoS solicitors regarding surrendering the property to BoS. They also raised concerns that 
they were being held responsible for the council tax for the property after theyd moved out. 
The solicitors responded to this complaint on BoS behalf on 23 August 2019, but didnt 
uphold it. It gave Mr M and Mrs P referral rights to this service and confirmed any referral 
needed to be made within six months of the date of its letter. The property was sold by BoS in March 2020. After costs, the sale price was significantly 
less than was owed to BoS and Mr M and Mrs P were left with a shortfall debt of slightly 
under £200,000.
Mr M and Mrs P complained to BoS in April 2020. They raised concerns about the amount 
the property had been sold for, especially in light of the offer theyd received from the 
commercial buyer. They repeated their concerns about the service theyd received about the 
offer from the commercial buyer.
On 3 July 2020 BoS explained the process it went through in order to sell the property and 
what had happened in relation to offers received and changes to the asking price. It was 
satisfied that it had done nothing wrong. In relation to the offer from the commercial buyer, it 
said that it had explained the sale at shortfall process in October 2018. It had confirmed the 
relevant team would assess the request when a definitive offer had been received. As it had 
heard nothing further from Mr M and Mrs P about this matter and didnt consider it had done 
anything wrong. BoS declined to review the service issues that it had responded to in its 
letter of March 2019.
Mr M and Mrs P didnt accept BoS response and referred their complaint to this service. 
When doing so, they included detail of all their concerns from late 2018 regarding the 
commercial buyers offer to buy their home. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He confirmed that due to when Mr M and 
Mrs P referred their complaint to this service, we could only consider the merits of the 
matters responded to by BoS in its letter of 3 July 2020  the sale of the property after it was 
possessed and service issues since the 2019 complaint responses. 
Mr M and Mrs P werent happy with the investigators conclusion but, following discussion, 
they appeared to accept that we couldnt consider the issues they had with the service 
regarding the shortfall offer of 2018. 
The investigator then went on to explain to Mr M and Mrs P his opinion on the merits of their 
complaint. He was satisfied that BoS had gone through an appropriate process before the 
property was put on the market for sale and had acted reasonably once it had. He was also 
satisfied that BoS explained to Mr M and Mrs P in March 2019 what would happen if there 
was a shortfall after the property was sold. He was also explained that once the property had 
been repossessed, BoS was not expected to involve Mr M and Mrs P in the sale process or 
keep them updated on it. However, he was satisfied that BoS had informed them about the 
sale and the resultant shortfall when it should have. It was also not unreasonable for BoS to 
tell them that the shortfall was due to be paid by them and want to discuss that with them.
Mr M and Mrs P didnt think the investigators conclusions were fair and requested that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Mr M and Mrs P said that had they been able to 
accept the offer from the commercial buyer, leaving them with a debt of c£40,000, they 
would have. However, BoS wouldnt allow this and allowed the property to be practically 
given away to a developer who later sold it at a significant profit. They also confirmed that 
they hadnt received the letter from BoS telling them about the sale and the shortfall. Mr M 
and Mrs P also reiterated that they didnt think it was acceptable for BoS to accept an offer 
so far below the original asking price and less than they had bought the house for in 2003. 
They highlighted that this was also considerably lower than the offer made by the 
commercial buyer. As such, they didnt understand how the investigator could say that the 
price achieved was fair. In addition, Mr M and Mrs P said BoS made the decision not to accept the offer from 
commercial buyer which has resulted in them ending up with a higher debt than they 
otherwise would have. They consider this evidences that BoS didnt show due care toward 
them and it this has caused severe problems; financially, in their relationship and to their 
mental health.
I issued a provisional decision detailing my conclusions regarding our jurisdiction to consider 
this complaint. As part of their response to the provisional decision Mr M and Mrs P also 
commented on the contents of the background detailed above. I have included additional 
comments in the background where appropriate to reflect those comments. They also said 
that they disagreed with the investigators conclusion that an appropriate process had been 
gone through when selling the property, as it had left them with such a large debt it was not 
appropriate. Mr M and Mrs P also said they were unhappy that it was deemed acceptable 
that BoS was able to decide what they as owners of the property could and couldnt do with 
their property.
I issued a decision on 7 January 2022 confirming what parts of Mr M and Mrs Ps complaint 
we would be considering: 
The explanations Mr M was given about the shortfall process and the service this means 
Mr M and Mrs P received in this regard.
The concerns about the sale of the property:
oThe sale value achieved.
oService and communications.
Following the complaint being returned to me for consideration of the merits, I issued a 
provisional decision. In that document I set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching 
them. Below is an excerpt.
I am satisfied that BoS provided Mr M with an adequate explanation of the shortfall sale 
process when Mr M first raised the concept. It is clear that Mr M and Mrs P werent happy 
that there was such a process and that BoS would make the decision about whether the 
offer would be accepted. However, all lenders have such a process in place and those 
processes take time to complete. As part of that process, it is normal for a valuation to be 
done. This gives a lender an idea of how much the property is worth and whether its 
reasonable for it to be sold for less than the amount owing on the mortgage. 
However, if there were obvious reasons that Mr M and Mrs P wouldnt have been eligible to 
apply for the shortfall process, it would have been appropriate for BoS to tell them that at an 
early stage. BoS acknowledged that it hadnt given a definitive answer in relation to the 
shortfall offer Mr M had told it about and I think its comments since the complaint was made, 
would indicate that it could have done so much earlier. This clearly inconvenienced Mr M 
and Mrs P, but I consider the £300 BoS has already paid them is sufficient compensation.
Mr M and Mrs P have concerns about the amount their property was sold for. I can 
understand this, but BoS had a duty to sell the property for the best price achievable within a 
reasonable period of time (my emphasis). Essentially, this means that a lender shouldnt sell 
for too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus potentially adding 
further to the borrowers interest costs) to achieve an unrealistically high price.
Its about finding a balance between the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain two independent valuations, and then to market the property with a view to achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations. In the case of Mr M and Mrs Ps 
property, I am satisfied thats what BoS did.
The valuations BoS initially received were for £410,000 and £420,000, and the 
recommended initial asking prices were £420,000 and £425,000. Unfortunately, the property 
attracted little interest, and only two offers were received, which were for £365,000 and 
£375,000 respectively. Both offers were subsequently withdrawn. Given the lack of interest 
BoS had a third valuation completed and, due to the lack of garden and off-street parking, it 
came back as £370,000. BoS decided, due to the time the property had already been being 
marketed for, to sell it at auction, where it sold for £320,000.
I think the decisions BoS made were reasonable. Ultimately, any property is only worth what 
someone is willing to pay for it at any given time. In this case, that was £320,000, and it 
seems the sale achieved the best price possible, bearing in mind that the mortgage 
continued to accrue interest until the sale was completed.
I note that Mr M and Mrs P have said they dont think it was reasonable for the property to be 
sold for an amount less than the offer theyd received. However, they have also confirmed 
that the £400,000 offer was not the commercial buyers final offer  that for a definitive offer 
to be received the property would have to be inspected and valued. While Mr M told BoS 
that two commercial buyers were inspecting the property in January 2019, it isnt clear 
whether this happened or not, and if it did, how much Mr M and Mrs P were finally offered. It 
is usual that buyers such as the ones Mr M and Mrs P approached will significantly reduce 
the amount of the offer after the inspection. 
I fully appreciate that losing the property that had once been their home was a distressing 
experience for Mr M and Mrs P, and I understand their strength of feeling about what has 
happened. However, in all the circumstances, I am not persuaded BoS treated them unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
Once the property was in its possession, the process of selling it is not something that 
involves the borrowers. It is something for a lender to conduct in its own right. All that would 
be required of the lender is to notify the borrowers that the sale had completed and any 
shortfall or surplus that resulted. I note that Mr M and Mrs P say they didnt receive such a 
letter. I have examined the letter BoS says it sent to them and I am satisfied that it was 
correctly addressed. Whilst I acknowledge that some letters go astray in the postal system, 
the majority are received. As such, I consider it is more likely than not that the letter was 
delivered. However, even if it was not, I cant hold BoS responsible for that happening, as it 
sent the letter correctly. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr M and Mrs P, but I dont consider BoS did anything wrong 
during the process of selling the property after it was repossessed.
BoS confirmed that it had no further comment to make.
Mr M and Mrs P didnt accept my provisional decision. They stated some things contained in 
BoS contemporaneous notes from before the repossession were wrong. The first of these 
was that Mr M doesnt believe that he told BoS that the money from the sale of the overseas 
property would be used to clear the second charge loan. He says this wouldnt have been 
the case, as if there was no equity in the property, no payment would have been due to the 
second charge lender. He is also unsure whether he told BoS that some of the money from 
sale of the overseas property would be used to compensate his ex-business partner. 
They reiterated their previous comments about BoS not confirming whether it would allow a 
shortfall sale over an extended period. That answer didnt materialise until March 2019 when they were given a number of different reasons. Mr M and Mrs P also reiterated their 
comments about how much BoS had sold the property for, and how much the property 
developer that bought it had sold it for after developing it. In addition, they repeated that BoS 
hadnt explained what would happen if there was a shortfall after property was sold in 
possession. They questioned why this would have happened, given the property was worth 
more than the amount owing on the mortgage. They again said that the first they knew about 
the shortfall was when debt collection agents contacted them.
Mr M and Mrs M disagreed that BoS had provided a clear or adequate explanation of the 
shortfall process. They also confirmed that the inspections for the commercial buyers BoS 
was told would be happening in January 2019 didnt go ahead.  Mr M and Mrs P said they 
decided not to do so, as BoS hadnt confirmed it would accept whatever shortfall offer that 
resulted. 
In relation to the letter from BoS telling them about the shortfall, they again repeated that 
they had no knowledge of this letter. They highlighted that BoS had sent correspondence to 
them using an incorrect address/postcode. They considered that my conclusion that the 
letter was most likely delivered meant that I was impugning their honesty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M and Mrs P dont agree with my provisional decision, but none of 
the further comments theyve made have changed my conclusions. While they dont agree 
that a clear explanation of the shortfall process was given them, I remain satisfied that it was 
and at an early stage. As such, the compensation payment made by BoS was sufficient to 
compensate them for any delay in telling them that they couldnt use the process because of 
the nature of the buyer.
In relation to the matter of the correspondence from BoS regarding the shortfall, I can 
confirm that I was aware of the issues regarding BoS incorrectly addressing letters. Due to 
this, I checked the address the letter was sent to, and it was sent to the correct address 
including the correct postcode. On that basis I concluded that it was most likely delivered, 
and I remain of that opinion. The fact that I consider the letter was likely correctly delivered 
doesnt impugn Mr M and Mrs Ps honesty as there are many reasons why they may not 
remember receiving the letter or may not have realised its import, that dont involve it not 
being delivered. 
While I know that Mr M and Mrs P wont be happy with this decision, but other than the delay 
in telling them that an offer from a commercial buyer was generically unlikely to qualify for 
the shortfall process, I dont consider BoS did anything wrong. I am also satisfied that BoS 
offer in this regard is appropriate in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M and Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman