DRN-3414563
The complaint
Mr H complains Ageas Insurance Limited failed to properly carry out repairs on his car 
following a claim on his motor insurance policy. Mr H is also unhappy hire car costs havent 
been refunded and thinks Ageas may have discriminated against him during the course of 
the claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In July 2021 Mr Hs wife was unfortunately involved in an accident. After speaking to Ageas 
Mr H instructed a solicitors firm, because he thought the claim would be a non-fault one. It 
transpired it was a fault claim, so Mr H asked Ageas to repair his car. Mr H says he was told 
there was only one approved repairer in his area, who when he reviewed them online, he 
said he didnt like the look of them. But, after Ageas told him they wouldnt offer any other 
options or pay for hire car costs without him going to their approved repairer, he allowed 
them to pick up his car for repairs. Ill call this company J.
Mr H says he was told the car would take around seven days to repair, but then had lots of 
problems with J  including them not providing an engineers report, not being allowed to 
visit the car, and it not being repaired properly. After it was returned, J then carried out 
remedial work without his consent as hed asked them not to  but it still wasnt repaired 
properly. Mr H says J dismissed his concerns, but after discussions with Ageas, got an 
independent engineer who said the repairs werent acceptable.
In summary, Ageas said:
They accept there have been some issues around the original repairs by J, and them 
trying to rectify those issues when itd been agreed between Ageas and Mr H they 
wouldnt.
Otherwise they thought theyd acted fairly  but would revisit the matter once Mr H 
provided his own engineers report.
Following further correspondence, Mr H provided his independent engineers report. This 
concluded there was further damage.
Mr H told Ageas he wasnt happy with the repairs to his car and was concerned about further 
damage. So, initially, Ageas suggested J buy Mr Hs car and although it wasnt a write-off, 
they were mindful Mr H had asked for this initially.
After further discussions where Mr H said hed want to buy the car back from J due to its 
sentimental value, Ageas said they no longer saw this as a viable or palatable option for 
Mr H, so offered the following:
£1,430  this was the cost of the additional repairs Mr Hs engineer found needed to 
be done
£240  reimbursing the cost of the engineers report
£350  refunding the policy excess
£480  this is compensation for the issues Mr H experienced.
In total, this came to £2,500. After further discussions, this amount was paid to Mr H  with 
him confirming hed be asking us to look into things.
Mr H was also concerned Ageas wouldnt pay for hire car costs, wouldnt fix the dent in the 
pillar of the car hed found  and hed had a breakdown as a result of the alternator failing  
which he felt were due to Js poor repairs.
Overall, our Investigator thought Ageas offer of £2,500 was fair, so she didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said our Investigator hadnt referred to the emails where hed 
instructed Ageas / J not to carry out the remedial work. He also said hed not instructed the 
independent engineer hed instructed someone from the solicitors firm he first dealt with at 
the beginning of the claim. We said Ageas had given him the name of the people from J who 
worked on his car, but that wasnt true as we only gave it to him a few days earlier. And any 
lay person could tell you the work done would involve removing the battery  which would 
cause it to go flat. Mr H said J would have had to then recharge the battery sending a current 
or jump starting the car  which can cause damage. 
Overall, as Mr H didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Hs complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant 
to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint is Mr H isnt happy with the repairs that were carried out on his 
car, he thinks the customer service wasnt good enough, and that further repairs are required 
 and because of the way hes been dealt with, he says hes been discriminated against.
Ive noted Mr H wanted to be given all the evidence our Investigator relied on when reaching 
her outcome. This has since been shared with him. Ive relied on the same evidence either 
Mr H has received more recently from our Investigator, or that he sent in himself. If he thinks 
there is evidence hes not been provided with, he should let us know so we can check this 
for him.
Repairs
Ive summarised the sequence of events using bullet points, given the significant amount of 
correspondence involved regarding the repairs:
Mr Hs wife had an accident on 26 July 2021Initially Mr H arranged for a solicitor to handle the claim on his behalf as he thinks itll 
be a non-fault claim
Just over a week later, realising itll be a fault claim, Mr H instructed Ageas to handle 
the claim for him
Following this the car was picked up by J for repairs
The first set of repairs werent done correctly
Mr H asked Ageas, and by proxy J, not to touch the car again
Despite this, J attempted remedial work which Mr H didnt consent to
A report was carried out at Ageas / Js request which deemed the car roadworthy, 
and the repairs satisfactory. The inspection took place on 8 September 2021, with 
the report being written up 15 September 2021
On 4 October 2021, a report was written by a company Ill call L  which deemed the 
repairs werent acceptable (though still said the car was roadworthy). L calculated the 
cost of the repairs required to bring Mr Hs car up to a commercially acceptable 
standard as £1,427.24.
After this report was completed, Ageas agreed to pay £1,430 to cover the repairs, 
pay the cost of the report at £240, refund the excess of £350 and pay £480 
compensation - £2,500 in total.
I think its worth pointing out I dont think Ageas themselves did much wrong initially. Id 
expect an insurer to rely on their approved garage to carry out work to an acceptable 
standard unless there is a clear reason not to. Here, J was telling Ageas the car had been 
repaired properly. In the absence of a report to question that, I think Ageas acted fairly in 
relying on this information.
Following Mr Hs dispute, Ageas then commissioned their own report  which also said the 
car had been acceptably repaired and was roadworthy. So, again, I think Ageas were acting 
fairly in relying on this.
Ive noted Mr Hs comments that he thinks he was being dismissed by Ageas / J when he 
was raising his concerns. Ive not seen that  instead Ive seen Ageas repeatedly explain to 
Mr H he can get his own independent engineer report and if that showed something 
different, then theyd consider it.
Mr H has said in response to our Investigators assessment he didnt instruct L  but also told 
Ageas during the claim hed already paid their fee, so it needed to be refunded to him. 
Regardless of how L got involved, their report said further accident damage hadnt been 
repaired  so needed to be.
Ls report also said Mr Hs car was roadworthy. Hed raised this issue many times to Ageas, 
saying his car wasnt roadworthy  but as far as I can see all reports show it was. So, I think 
Ageas replied appropriately to Mr H on this point when they told him the reports theyd been 
given said it was.
After receiving Ls report, Ageas accepted this promptly without any further dispute  and set 
about working out how best to put matters right.
Clearly, Ageas instructed J so remain responsible for their actions. J didnt repair the car 
properly on the first occasion, or on the second occasion when Mr H had said he didnt want 
them to touch it.
Ageas have accepted all of this  which I think is fair. So, Ill consider in my summary section 
whether I think theyve done enough or not.Hire car costs
Ive seen throughout the claim with Ageas, Mr H has regularly mentioned hire car costs. 
These costs were incurred right at the beginning of the claim, where Mr H wasnt using 
Ageas to pursue the claim. Ive read through Ageas policy terms, and there is no cover in 
Mr Hs circumstances where hes not claiming through his own policy. 
So, I dont think itd be appropriate to require them to refund this cost. Mr H chose to go with 
his own solicitors, and I can see Ageas have been clear and consistent in explaining this to 
him whenever hes asked.
Alternator
Mr H unfortunately broke down in his car on 6 November 2021  which was a few weeks 
after Ageas had sent him the £2,500 which included the amount to repair his car.
When asked, Ageas said their engineers couldnt see any correlation between the repairs or 
the alternator failing some months later. They said J wouldnt have touched, moved, or 
disturbed the alternator during the repairs. Ageas engineer felt as Mr Hs car had 84,000 
miles on the clock it more likely failed due to wear and tear.
Ive seen Mr H thinks J would have had to do something to the car to get it started as he 
thinks the battery would have gone flat. But, as far as Im aware, the second attempt to 
repair the car only covered cosmetic issues, so the last time J would have touched his car 
would have been around two months earlier. If, as Mr H has suggested, damage was 
caused by J when they were doing the work, it seems unusual its taken around two months 
to show.
In addition, L inspected Mr Hs car to ensure there was no further accident damage that 
needed to be repaired. So, I think Id reasonably have expected this to be picked up in that 
report, if it was an issue at the time of the report. The report was completed just over a 
month earlier than the breakdown. There is no mention of battery issues in the report.
Mr H also provided the report from the breakdown company that attended his car  but this 
doesnt give any cause for the alternator failing. 
Taking all of the above into account I cant reasonably say the reason for the alternator 
failing was due to Js actions  and Ageas explanation that it could be due to wear and tear 
doesnt seem entirely unreasonable given the age and mileage of Mr Hs car.
If Mr H were to get evidence the alternator did fail due to Js actions, then Id expect Ageas 
to consider that. 
Damage to the side pillar
Mr H has provided photos of the damage to the pillar  and acknowledges while doing so it 
cant be seen in the photos  its more than he can feel it. 
Ageas have said the repairs J carried out werent in that area of Mr Hs car  and Ls report 
doesnt mention this damage.
Like Mr Hs concerns about the alternator, Id need to be provided with some evidence to 
show this was damaged because of Js actions. The pillar isnt noted on Js initial report, the 
report Ageas instructed, or the report by L  this report identifying further accident damage 
the other two reports didnt, but not mentioning the pillar.So, considering the above I cant reasonably say the damage to the pillar was caused by J. 
And, again, if Mr H were to provide independent evidence  such as an engineers report, 
then Id expect Ageas to consider that.
Ageas not providing the names of Js staff who helped him
Mr H also complained to our Investigator about the names of Js staff not being given to him 
by Ageas.
Ageas said theyd not been asked this by Mr H, but gave the details which our Investigator 
then passed on.
Ive reviewed all the correspondence Mr H has provided, and I cant see that he did ask for 
the names of the individuals. But, even if he did and Ive just not seen that, hes now got the 
names. Id add that Id need to be satisfied there has been an impact on Mr H that hasnt 
been properly addressed by Ageas actions if he wishes to dispute this point.
Discrimination
Mr H has said during the complaint Ageas have discriminated on the basis hes disabled, 
and his wife is a woman  otherwise theyd have been taken more seriously.
I think its important to clarify I cant decide if Mr H or his wife have been discriminated 
against  but we do take into account all relevant law and regulations into consideration 
which would include The Equality Act 2010. So, while I cant say whether or not Ageas have 
discriminated, as only a court of law can do that, I can consider whether or not Mr H was 
treated differently or unfairly Ageas. 
In this instance, I dont think Mr H has been. I think during their communications Mr H has 
been treated seriously, and with respect, and no differently from the way any other customer 
would have been treated  both when discussing his concerns and relaying his wifes 
concerns.
Summary
Ive reviewed in detail the communication Mr H had with Ageas and other parties during the 
complaint. Its clear this became a very complicated matter which took some time to resolve. 
But I think in part it took some time to resolve initially because J needed to get parts 
delivered, and then once that was resolved it was because Mr H wasnt happy with the 
repairs.
Thats his right of course, but it does inevitably mean things will take longer, and co-
ordinating what Mr H was asking for inevitably required further communication. From what 
Ive seen Ageas replied to Mr H promptly and respectfully most of the time  very often 
replying the same day or next despite significant amounts of contact from Mr H. Theres one 
clear incident, where someone from Ageas / Js end referred to Mr H as slightly awkward. I 
do think that kind of personal remark wasnt necessary  but Ive not seen anything to 
suggest it affected how Ageas or J dealt with Mr H.
But, its clear after L produced their report, Ageas needed to compensate Mr H for Js 
actions. To do that theyve covered the full cost of the repairs L identified, plus the cost of the 
report. Under the circumstances thats fair. Theyve then waived the excess of £350 and paid 
£480 compensation. Mr H made a legitimate claim, so if Ageas had said they expected him 
to pay his excess, Id likely have said that was fair. So, by refunding it, in effect theyve paid 
Mr H £830 compensation  since the excess is something Ageas could legitimately have still 
asked to be paid.Taking everything into account, I think Ageas offer is a fair one, and puts matters right for 
Mr H. And, since theyve already paid this amount, I dont plan on requiring them to do 
anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas replied, and said they also wanted it noted theyd paid for a larger courtesy car than 
Mr H was entitled to under the policy terms. They thought it important to mention this was 
part of the overall compensation package. They had no other comments. 
Mr H didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted, and I agree, with Ageas comments  they did pay for a larger courtesy car than 
the policy terms entitled Mr H to. 
I know Ageas only wanted this noted, and theyve not provided me with any comments to 
make me think I should change my decision. And as Mr H didnt reply  Ive seen no reason 
to change the outcome I reached. I think Ageas offer is a fair one, which has already been 
paid, so I dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman