DRN-1462531
 
The complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Although Marks & Spencer (M&S) sold the PPI to Ms W, the insurers, Allianz Insurance Plc 
(Allianz), have accepted responsibility for the sale. So the complaint has been set up against 
them. 
What happened
In 1989 Ms W completed a leaflet to apply for an M&S store card. The PPI was taken at the 
same time in connection with this account. 
The policy cost 64p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 15% of 
the monthly outstanding balance if Ms W was off work sick or lost her job. And it wouldve 
continued to pay while she was off work until the outstanding balance (at the start of the 
claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ms W made it clear 
in her application she wanted the policy and it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Ms W disagrees, she says she was coerced into taking the policy. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
The PPI was applied for when Ms W applied for a store card. Given the length of time since 
the sale took place, Ive mainly relied on what the documents from the time of the sale show 
to help me decide how the PPI was presented to Ms W and how it came to be applied to her 
account.
Allianz have given us a copy of the original store card application form. I can see in the 
section that deals with PPI Ms W has ticked to select PPI. 
If Ms W didnt want to take out PPI she couldve left the section clear and not selected to 
take the cover. Because PPI has been selected with a tick in the PPI section rather than 
leaving the section clear, I think its likely she knew she had a choice about taking out PPI 
and chose to take it because she wanted the cover. Ms W says she was coerced into taking PPI and only ticked the box because PPI was strongly recommended. But I dont think 
strongly recommending a product on a leaflet would force someone to take PPI if they didnt 
have to or want the product.
I dont think the sale was advised because the application appears to have been completed 
without the involvement of a sales representative. And although the application form may 
have the words We strongly recommend, this, I think is different to making a 
recommendation tailored to Ms Ws circumstances. 
So PPI wasnt recommended to Ms W by Allianz, it just gave her information about PPI. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI.
The cost of the policy was on the application form but I dont know what other information 
was given to Ms W at the point of sale. So I cant say whether the information given was 
good enough. That being said if Allianz did give all the information Ms W needed to make an 
informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at 
the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Ms W says she was entitled to a some sick pay and had 
savings she could use to make her repayments. But a successful claim on the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer. And the policy provided a 
relatively high percentage of benefit per month for a prolonged period at a relatively 
low cost.
 
So I think the policy provided a useful benefit for Ms W in her situation and I cant see 
how knowing this information wouldve changed her mind about taking the policy.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms W and she could cancel 
the policy if she no longer wanted it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in what information was given to Ms W on the 
PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her. 
 
 
 
 
My final decision For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint against
Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman