DRN-4420489
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) handled a claim.
What happened
Mrs A made a claim for treatment on her private medical insurance policy, underwritten by 
AXA. She complained about AXAs poor level of service including waiting on hold, delays, 
not receiving clear responses, not receiving advice and guidance and errors made by AXA. 
AXA reviewed Mrs As concerns and issued final response letters accepting that its level of 
service had fallen short. It agreed to cover the specialists costs in full (who was fee-limited). 
It also apologised, offered explanations and paid £1,000 in compensation in total for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs A. 
Mrs A referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found AXA had resolved the complaint fairly 
but Mrs A didnt agree.
Mrs A remained unhappy and said that following its final response letters, AXA continued to 
make mistakes. She didnt feel that she was being listened to, she couldnt get advice and 
guidance from AXA or get in touch with it when she needed, and she felt she was paying for 
a service which was not being provided. Mrs A raised her further concerns with AXA. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs actions to resolve the complaint are fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
This decision relates to AXAs service and actions up to 9 June 2023 only.
I have carefully reviewed everything Mrs A has said in detail but I will only comment 
on the key points which I consider to be relevant to my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. It should also 
communicate in a clear way, providing advice and guidance as appropriate. 
Mrs A was unhappy about delays and wait times. AXA apologised and explained it 
had put measures in place to reduce wait times, such as recruiting more team 
members. Mrs A was also unhappy about obtaining a procedure code but I am 
satisfied AXA correctly explained that this was something the specialist would need 
to provide. 
The specialist Mrs A saw was fee limited. AXA explained what this meant and also 
tried to help with finding a different specialist. I can see this took them some time and 
the person they did find was due to retire. This caused frustration to Mrs A and 
ultimately AXA agreed to pay the fee-limited specialists fees in full, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. AXA apologised for not doing more to 
help Mrs A in finding a suitable specialist. 
AXA also provided Mrs A with an explanation of her excess which set out what the 
term and conditions say.
AXA has accepted that its level of service fell below a reasonable standard. It 
accepts it caused unnecessary delay and distress and inconvenience to Mrs A. It 
paid a total of £1,000 compensation to Mrs A which is what I would expect for 
significant distress and repeat errors. It is clear that AXA provided unclear and 
incorrect information to Mrs A and that she needed to chase on numerous occasions. 
Mrs A has suggested she would like AXA to avoid repeating its errors and mistakes. 
As much as this would be the ideal outcome, I cant direct AXA never to make a 
mistake again or change its process. I can look into what has already happened, and 
consider what should have happened. If an error or mistake resulted in loss or 
distress and inconvenience to Mrs A, I then consider what AXA should do to put 
things right. Any remedy I direct has to be specific and enforceable. 
What should have happened is that AXA should have dealt with Mrs As queries 
more quickly and shouldnt have made repeat mistakes. So I have carefully 
considered the level of compensation which should be paid to recognise the impact 
on Mrs A. I agree that the impact was significant and long lasting, over many months. 
And so I agree an award of £1,000 compensation is appropriate. Our website sets 
out our compensation award bands in more detail. 
AXA also agreed to pay for a specialist who wasnt fee assured as he was the only 
one available, near to Mrs A. And although it made errors on its invoices, it did 
ultimately pay the correct amounts. So Mrs A hasnt suffered any financial loss which 
I can see Mrs A was concerned about when trying to arrange her consultations and 
surgery. 
Overall, I think AXA has appropriately resolved its errors and compensated Mrs A 
fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think AXA has resolved this complaint fairly and so I wont 
be asking it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman