DRN-2436114
The complaint
Ms T complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms T took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 1996 and bought a PPI policy at around 
the same time. The sale took place in a meeting at a branch.
Ms T says Banking of Scotland pressured her into buying the PPI, telling her she wouldnt 
get the mortgage without it. And she says she didnt need the cover because, with her 
savings and help from her family, she wouldve had support for two years.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ts case didnt uphold it. Ms T disagrees and so her 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Ms T she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. Ms T says she was pressured into buying it. But  not surprisingly after such 
a long time  she hasnt given us much information about how this happened. Ive looked at 
Ms Ts mortgage application form. Shes signed a separate section about PPI to say she 
wants it. And theres an equally clear option in the application that she couldve signed if she 
didnt want it. Around a month or so after Ms T completed her mortgage application, she also 
signed a separate  and quite detailed  PPI application form, which included the monthly 
cost of the cover (just under £17.50) and the monthly benefit she wanted (£350).
Based on this information, I think its likely Bank of Scotland discussed Ms Ts insurance 
needs with her as part of her mortgage application. And I think its likely Ms T agreed to the 
PPI, knowing she had a choice about it  even though, understandably given the time thats 
passed, thats not how she remembers things. The information I have about this complaint 
isnt strong enough for me to think its likely Ms T wasnt given a real choice about having the 
cover.
Bank of Scotland and Ms T say it recommended the PPI to her. So it needed to make sure 
the cover was right for Ms T. I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to do this. But 
based on what Ms T has told us of her circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive 
got, I think it was right for her. I say this because, based on these things:
Ms T was eligible for the PPI. And she wasnt affected by the main things it wouldnt 
have covered  like known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. So 
thered have been nothing to stop Ms T claiming the full policy benefit if shed 
needed to.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to Ms T if things had got difficult for her. Ms T 
says she wouldnt have got any sick pay from her work. She does, however, say she 
had savings (and I can see her mortgage application refers to £4,000 in a building 
society account). And Ms T also says her family couldve supported her. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for each successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim she made  meaning she wouldnt have had to fall 
back on her savings or rely on help from her family (and family help cant always be 
guaranteed) to pay her mortgage. 
A mortgage is a significant and long-term financial commitment and your home is at 
risk if you fall behind on your mortgage repayments. So I think the PPI gave Ms T 
protection she didnt otherwise have.
Ive seen nothing to make me think Ms T couldnt afford the PPI at the time. And she 
couldve cancelled it without penalty if she decided she didnt want it later on.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Ms T, Bank of Scotland also had to give her 
enough clear information about its main terms and conditions for her to be able to make an 
informed decision about whether or not she wanted it. 
As before, I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to do this. But, as Ive already said, 
I think its likely Ms T agreed to the PPI knowing she had a choice about it. And I think it was 
suitable for her. So I think clearer information  if this had been needed  is likely only have 
confirmed this to her. I dont think it wouldve stopped her going ahead with the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman