DRN-2632419
The complaint
Mrs N complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) asked her security 
questions she hadnt set when she tried to take money out of her premium bond. And shes 
unhappy with the steps NS&I took when she called about the problem.
What happened
Mrs N logged into her NS&I account online in July 2020. When she tried to withdraw some 
money from her premium bond, the system asked her some security questions. Mrs N says 
that the questions she was asked werent ones that shed set, so she couldnt answer them. 
This led to the system locking her account, so her password no longer worked.
A representative for Mrs N called NS&I to raise the issue. NS&I initially said theyd send a 
temporary password out by post. But Mrs N needed the money sooner than that would allow, 
so the matter was escalated to a more senior person. Mrs Ns identity was then confirmed 
using questions based on what NS&I could see in her credit record. Her password was then 
reset, and the withdrawal completed.
NS&I looked into Mrs Ns complaint and felt there wasnt an issue with the security questions 
they asked online. But they agreed the phone call to sort out the problem could have been 
handled better. They paid £40 compensation to Mrs N to put that right. Mrs N didnt think this 
did enough to acknowledge the problem, so she brought the matter to us. 
Our investigator listened to the calls from July 2020, and looked at the records available for 
the transaction. He felt NS&I had done enough to resolve the matter when they responded to 
the complaint, so he didnt feel any further action was needed. Mrs N didnt agree with that 
view, so the matters come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Usually, the first thing Id look at in a complaint is whether the business did anything wrong. 
If they did, Id then look at what impact the mistake had on their customer. My decision 
would then say what should be done to put right any impact I could see.
Here though, Ive decided to focus my review on the impact of the mistake Mrs Ns 
described. Ive compared the position she was in  as described above  with the position 
she would have been in, if she could have answered the security questions correctly online. 
When I do that, I cant see NS&I need to do any more to put things right. 
Thats mainly because the call Mrs Ns representative made after the password was locked 
led to the withdrawal going ahead the same day. It was just confirmed a few hours later than 
planned. The money was transferred out of Mrs Ns bond a couple of days later, which is in 
line with what NS&Is terms and conditions say she could have expected, and what I think 
would have happened, if shed got the online questions right.
I appreciate Mrs N wouldnt have needed to make the extra phone call if she could have 
completed the withdrawal online. And I note NS&I agree with the complaint that the call 
could have been handled more efficiently. But again, the call was ultimately successful, in 
that Mrs N was able to make the withdrawal she wanted to make. So Ive decided the 
modest compensation NS&I paid Mrs N did enough to acknowledge and put right any added 
frustration caused by the call.
This finding  that theres no outstanding impact from the complaint Mrs Ns raised  gives 
context to a problem Ive got with this case. There isnt enough evidence for me to decide if 
NS&I actually made a mistake here, or whether they were instead asking Mrs N questions 
shed forgotten she set. Both would explain whats happened here, and I havent got enough 
information to decide which is right.
But as Ive found theres no outstanding impact, I find itll be disproportionate to have Mrs N 
or NS&I spend more time and effort getting more information for me to consider. Even if 
someone could show me proof that NS&I had  more likely than not  made a mistake, I 
wouldnt be telling them to do any more to put things right.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint, as theres nothing further National Savings and 
Investments need to do to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman