DRN-3074468
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty irresponsibly provided him with 
a credit facility because it didnt carry out sufficient checks. Had it done so, it wouldve seen 
that he had outstanding debts with a number of different credit providers.  
What happened
Mr B approached Drafty for a running credit facility in June 2018 and he was given a facility 
with a £1,000 credit limit. This was a running credit account where a consumer could either 
request funds up to their agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their 
limit.
In around September 2018 Drafty increased the credit limit to £1,070. And then the facility 
was suspended from October 2018 because Mr B didnt make his contractual payment. 
Based on the most recent information from Drafty, Mr B is repaying what is owed by a 
repayment plan and an outstanding balance remains. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried 
out before granting this facility were proportionate taking into account Mr Bs declared 
income, outgoings and the result of Draftys credit checks. So, she didnt think it was wrong 
to have initially approved the facility. And when the credit limit was approved, she also 
thought Drafty just about did enough. So, she didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Drafty agreed with the adjudicators assessment and it didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, in response he said;
This is the only high credit lending case this Service hasnt upheld. 
Drafty knew from its own credit checks that he owed other creditors £41,600 which is 
nearly twice his salary. 
Mr B underestimated his credit commitments to Drafty, he owed more than the £525 
he declared. 
Drafty didnt question the rest of the information he provided about his expenditure. 
Mr B says further evidence needed to have been gathered which went beyond a 
credit check. 
His credit report wouldve shown rapid up take of credit during 2017 and 2018. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was offered.
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the facility in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
To begin, I want to be clear that Mr B wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all 
of what he borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility 
where there was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due 
within a period of at least 12 months.
As Ive said, Mr B was granted a running credit facility, initially with a £1,000 limit. According 
to the credit agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the 
facility, and repaid that amount over 12 months, he wouldve paid a total of £1,329.40, 
meaning the monthly repayment wouldve been around £111.
Before granting the facility, Drafty asked Mr B about his monthly income, which he confirmed 
was £1,775 per month and he also declared expenditure of £600 per month. 
Based on the information that Drafty gathered it seemed that Mr B would be able to afford 
the repayments he was committed to making and at this early point in the lending 
relationship, it was, in my view entirely reasonable for it to have relied on the information that 
Mr B provided it. 
While Mr B has questioned that some of the expenditure information, he gave was 
unrealistic, given the content of the credit report (which Ive gone into below) it was 
reasonable that his largest expenditure was for credit commitments. 
Drafty has provided us with the results of its credit checks, and this is where the crux of the 
issue is. Mr B says the information that Drafty received ought to have prompted it to have 
done more. When Mr Bs facility was granted, the credit checks showed Drafty the following;
Mr B had no defaults, 
he had no delinquent accounts, 
there were currently nine active credit accounts and 
outstanding debt of £41,600. 
And as Ive said above, Mr B says the amount of current outstanding debt was a problem. As 
part of his submission to this Service, he has provided us with a breakdown of the amount of 
debt he had to each creditor and the estimated monthly repayments to each company. I 
thank him for this, but that doesnt mean that I can uphold his complaint. 
Its also important to note that the information Drafty got from the credit checks it did are not 
the same as it wouldve had if it had asked Mr B for a copy of his full credit report. There is, 
and wasnt, any regulation in place to say that either Drafty needed to do a credit check let 
alone one to a required standard. So, I cant conclude that Drafty had made an error solely, because it didnt gather the sort of information Mr B thinks it ought to have done. It carried 
out some sort of credit check, which provided it with some information. 
It is of course possible, that had Drafty asked to see Mr Bs actual credit file, it may have 
seen a different picture of his finances because Mr Bs actual credit report wouldve 
contained more detail and wouldve provided Drafty with a picture of his finances over the 
previous six years. 
But as I said, Drafty didnt have to do a credit check but what it couldnt do, is gather 
information and then not react to what it was told. Looking at the results that Drafty obtained 
I do agree that the total outstanding debt couldve been a problem. After all, this is a 
significant sum outstanding. But, what Drafty didnt know was how this debt was constructed 
 for example was it made up of credit cards, store cards, other loans or other high value 
purchases such as car loan. Draftys checks didnt provide it with that level of detail. But I 
dont think in this case it needed to find out more. 
I say this because the rest of the checks indicated that Mr B was servicing this debt without 
any obvious repayment problems, for example, based on what Drafty was told there wasnt 
any missed payments (delinquent markers) or defaults. So, it would likely seem to Drafty that 
Mr B, although he had a lot of debt, was in a position to service it.  
And as Ive said above, given what Mr B declared, the loan repayment of around £111 per 
month looked affordable, and while Mr B did have quite a bit of other debt, he seemed to be 
servicing that  and the high repayments towards this were declared to Drafty as part of his 
expenditure details. 
I also think, given this was the start of the lending relationship, it was reasonable for Drafty to 
have relied on the information it was provided. So, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldnt have extended to Drafty asking Mr B to evidence his declared income and 
expenditure. Therefore, I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
However, that doesnt mean that Drafty hasnt done anything wrong. Ive also looked at how 
Mr B used the facility to see if there was a point at which Drafty should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.
It may help if I explain that although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have provided the 
facility, that wasnt the end of its obligation to Mr B. When the facility was approved, Drafty 
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on 
this type of lending and what it says should be expected from lenders when granting these 
types of loans. Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful of how Mr B used the facility in order to 
step in if and when he showed signs of possible financial difficulties. Having looked at how 
Mr B had used the facility, in my view, there werent any indicators that he wasnt using it as 
intended. And when Drafty did increase the credit limit, it only increased it by a small 
amount, which wouldve had a small effect on the overall monthly repayments, so they 
wouldve still looked affordable for Drafty. 
Overall, I dont think Drafty was wrong to have approved the facility or have increased the 
credit limit. Which means Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed with the outcome, but I hope my explanation has been useful for him to 
understand why Ive reached the conclusion that I have. 
Finally, I understand that Mr B is now on a repayment plan, and Id remind Drafty of its 
obligation to treat Mr B fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman