DRN-3443386
The complaint
Mr N and the estate of Mr T complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires 
unreasonably appointed Law of Property Act Receivers (the Receivers) to manage a buy to 
let property that was part of the estate of Mr T.
What happened
Mr T sadly passed away in late 2018. He owned a number of buy to let (BTL) properties. 
Several were mortgaged to Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM), 
including the property that is the subject of this complaint (the Property). 
Mr N is the executor of the estate of Mr T. He let BM know in February 2019 that Mr T had 
died. And he provided them with the death certificate in March 2019.  
In around February 2020, BM appointed Law of Property Act Receivers to manage the 
Property. Mr N hadnt been told about their appointment and objected. Communication about 
this seems to have been sent to Mr Ts former address, rather than to Mr N, even though BM 
knew he was dealing with the estate. Mr N felt the Receivers appointment was unnecessary 
given, broadly, his own plans for managing and selling the properties at appropriate times 
financially. And he argued it had only happened because he didnt have the chance to 
discuss things with BM before the Receivers were in place.
BM acknowledged theyd made an administrative error in sending some correspondence to 
Mr Ts former address. But they said theyd been correct in writing there until Mr N had 
provided the documents they required to update the account. BM said their decision to 
appoint the Receivers met their internal criteria. Amongst other things, the mortgage account 
relating to the Property was many months in arrears and the amount owed exceeded their 
threshold.
Mr N made a payment to the mortgage account in around late February 2020. And the 
arrears were later cleared. Before they would agree to discharge the Receivers, BM required 
the fees associated with their appointment to be paid by the estate of Mr T. Mr N refused 
since he disagreed with their appointment and felt they hadnt carried out any useful work.
BM considered Mr Ns concerns. They agreed theyd made an administrative error in writing 
to the wrong address and paid £150 to compensate the estate of Mr T for the inconvenience 
theyd caused. But they said they were right to appoint the Receivers and refused to stand 
them down until the fees had been paid. Mr N didnt agree and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Fees have continued to be charged in the meantime.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Looking at the history of what 
had happened and the arrears on the mortgage, he was of the view BM had acted fairly. 
Since Mr N didnt agree, the complaints been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ns strength of feeling about what happened. I accept the estate of Mr T is 
complex, involving many properties with some difficult financial issues, which Mr N has been 
working to manage for the benefit of the estate. I can understand he was disappointed when 
the Receivers were appointed. 
BTL mortgages arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, the rules set 
out in the FCA handbook dont apply to them. But I can consider whether BM treated the 
estate of Mr T fairly and reasonably, whilst bearing in mind the commercial nature of a BTL 
mortgage.
Ive considered the history of what happened. Im not persuaded BMs decision to appoint 
the Receivers resulted from an administrative error, either in writing to Mr Ts former address 
so that Mr G was unaware of their appointment and unable to discuss it with them, or 
otherwise.
BMs records support their evidence that they were considering all of Mr Ts BTL properties 
together - theyd put a hold on action following Mr Ts death, but reviewed things in January 
2020. And their notes suggest action in relation to the other properties was put on hold. 
Mr N said he kept BM up to date with his plans for managing the estate and making 
payments towards the BM mortgages, although Im not aware of any correspondence 
between around March 2019 and January 2020. And I acknowledge BM were insisting on 
seeing the Grant and another form being completed before they would discuss the account 
with him, even though they were aware of his appointment and contact details. But Mr N 
spoke to BM about the account at the end of January 2020 and wrote to them as well. So, 
BM knew his plans before they decided to go ahead with the Receivers appointment even if 
they hadnt let Mr N know their intentions. I think BMs decision was based on the state of 
the account. 
Ive thought about whether BMs decision was reasonable. BMs internal criteria were met. 
No payments had been made towards the mortgage on the Property for many months 
despite the Property being tenanted. Im not aware that Mr N had explained the reason for 
that. Although Mr N planned to make a payment towards the arrears, the amount and 
timescale for that werent clear. Although Mr N did make an initial payment shortly after the 
Receivers appointment, it didnt clear the arrears. Mr N planned to sell the properties but 
had said it could take time due to the state of the BTL market in the area. And he was 
concerned about negative equity in relation to some of the properties. 
Appointing the Receivers gave BM the opportunity, amongst other things, to attempt to 
secure payment of the rent towards the mortgage and assess the condition of the Property 
and its potential for sale. Allowing the arrears to continue to accrue increased the possibility 
of a shortfall on sale which wasnt beneficial either to BM or to the estate of Mr T. Bearing 
everything in mind, I think it was reasonable for BM to appoint the Receivers given the 
circumstances at the time.
BM say they wouldnt have agreed to stand the Receivers down unless Mr N had paid the 
arrears. The initial payment didnt achieve that. And there was no certainty about when other 
payments might be made. Even once the arrears had been cleared, BM refused to stand the 
Receivers down until their outstanding charges had been paid. 
I acknowledge Mr N felt the Receivers didnt carry out any work he considered useful. The 
Financial Ombudsman doesnt have the power to consider complaints about their activities. 
BM was entitled to appoint them under the terms and conditions of the mortgage over the Property. And BM could pay associated fees, provided they were reasonably incurred and 
reasonable in amount, and charge interest on them whether or not Mr N had seen or 
approved them. Im satisfied it was fair to appoint the Receivers and they were carrying out 
relevant work to manage the property. I think it was fair for BM to pay their bills and to seek 
reimbursement from the estate of Mr T in line with the mortgage terms.
I think it was right for BM to acknowledge the administrative error theyd made in writing to 
the wrong address and the inconvenience that caused. The compensation of £150 BM paid 
to the estate of Mr T is fair to put that right. I dont think it had the impact Mr N argues it did. 
And although I acknowledge it caused him distress personally, this is the estates complaint 
and I cant award Mr N compensation.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr N will be disappointed, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr N and the estate of Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and the 
estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman