The complaint 
Mr Ss complaint is about misrepresentation of a car financed through an agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (Clydesdale).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The relevant legislations says that the car should not have been misrepresented
to  Mr S. If it was and if I thought it likely Mr S would not have proceeded with the
deal if the misrepresentation hadnt happened then Id ask Clydesdale to take some
action.
Im persuaded there has been a misrepresentation here as I think theres evidence
the car was chipped before it was provided to Mr S and that he wasnt told about that.
the fact the car was previously chipped is evidenced by the cash sales invoice Mr S
has provided. This demonstrates the car had previously been bought by a garage
and that it had been remapped due to faults. I can see the investigator was able to
confirm this with the garage.
Im persuaded Mr S wasnt told about the remapping as the advertisement for the car
doesnt refer to it and says it is completely standard and because the pre-delivery
inspection noted that there were no modifications.
I dont think he would have proceeded with the deal if hed know the car had been
chipped as I think hed have been concerned about voiding an important warranty,
voiding his insurance and about excessive oil consumption.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Clydesdale should allow Mr S to reject the vehicle and terminate his finance agreement with 
them. They should also refund the deposit Mr S paid as hell need this to fund a new car.
Im not asking Clydesdale to refund any monthly instalments in respect of loss of use as I 
can see that Mr S has been provided with a courtesy car. I note the car broke down in 
January 2020. But I dont think it would be fair to suggest theres evidence that this 
breakdown was a result of a problem that was present at the point of supply, back in October 
2018, when Clydesdale were responsible for the cars quality. So Im not suggesting the 
redress is increased. Similarly, Im not suggesting a reduction in the redress if the car hasnt 
DRN-1432394by now been fixed. Had Clydesdale accepted the car back when they should have done the 
problem would not have arisen. 
I think its clear Mr S has been inconvenienced by matters. Hes had to return the car for 
work and hes had to progress a complaint to this service and investigate the cars history in 
order to validate his claim. In those circumstances I think it would be fair for Clydesdale to 
pay him £250 to compensate him for his experiences.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint, Clydesdale Financial Services Limited should:
cancel the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
record the agreement as settled on Mr Ss credit file and remove any adverse reports
they may have made to the file in relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman