DRN-1760361
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined her travel insurance 
claim for items stolen while she was staying abroad. 
For the sake of clarity, when I refer to Aviva, Im referring to both the underwriter and any 
agent acting on its behalf.
Background
On 22 January 2020, Mrs K noticed two toiletry bags had gone missing following a party in 
her friends apartment the night before. The bags contained makeup, a phone charger and 
an electric toothbrush. Mrs K has said she noticed the items were missing sometime early 
that morning, but that she had to leave shortly after realising the items were missing to make 
her flight back to the UK. 
Two days later Mrs K called Aviva on 24 January 2020 to make a claim on her travel 
insurance. Avivas notes from the call show it sent out a claim form and advised Mrs K of the 
timescales involved.
Mrs K responded to Avivas email with a completed claim form on 26 January 2020. On her 
form, Mrs K explained she didnt have any receipts for the stolen items, which she valued at 
around £529, and that the theft hadnt been reported to the police. 
On 2 February 2020, Aviva declined the claim on the basis that Mrs K hadnt provided a loss 
report to any authority. Aviva wrote to Mrs K, highlighting the following term for personal 
baggage cover;
You must report any loss or theft to the police within 24 hours or as soon as 
reasonably possible following discovery, and get a written report (where it is not 
possible to obtain a police report, you must provide other independent proof of the 
loss or theft, such as a letter from your transport company, hotel, vehicle hire 
company or repairer). 
Aviva went on to explain that as the incident hadnt been reported to the local police or any 
other relevant authority, and no loss report had been obtained, it wouldnt be considering the 
claim further.
Mrs K was unhappy and complained about the declined claim. She pointed out that shed 
told Aviva the incident hadnt yet been reported to the police during her call on 24 January 
2020. She was unhappy she hadnt been directed to report it by the agent she spoke to at 
the time. She reiterated that there was little time to report the loss before her flight home.
In its final response, it drew Mrs Ks attention again to the term which required her to have 
reported the loss within 24 hours or as soon as reasonably possible, as well as the following 
special condition;
It may affect your claim if you cannot prove the value of, and that you were 
responsible for, the lost, stolen or damaged items, for example a receipt or credit 
card/bank statement showing evidence of purchase 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to ask Aviva to do any more in relation to Mrs Ks complaint 
and Id like to explain why.
Aviva has told our service the claim was declined due to the incident not being reported to 
the police. The term says the theft needed to have been reported within 24 hours or as soon 
as reasonably possible. Aviva has also said a written report would have been required as 
proof of the loss. Aviva says that even if proof of loss had been provided, Mrs K told it she 
couldnt provide any receipts to show the items had been purchased.  
Both Aviva and Mrs K agree that no report was made within 24 hours. But Mrs K has argued 
Aviva should have told her when making her claim that she needed to obtain a report, or 
some other proof of the loss. Had it done so, Mrs K believes she could have informed the 
relevant authorities as soon as reasonably possible. Mrs K has also said she can now 
provide credit card statements for some of the purchases.
Ive thought about Mrs Ks points, but I think by the time she called Aviva, thered already 
been a reasonable period of time in which a police report (or similar) could have been made 
 such as at the airport on her way home, or remotely, upon arrival in the UK. I also note that 
the theft was yet to be reported when Mrs K returned her completed claim form on 26 
January 2020, around four days after the loss. While I understand Mrs Ks frustration at not 
being told by the call handler that she needed to report the loss, the terms, which would 
have been given to Mrs K soon after taking out the policy, are clear in what needed to 
happen for a claim to be accepted. 
Had Mrs K provided receipts or credit card statements, it remains that the theft hadnt been 
reported to a relevant authority as soon as reasonably possible. Ive not seen anything to 
indicate Mrs K made it clear to Aviva before her complaint to us that there was a possibility 
she could provide proof of payment. So Im not satisfied the call handler would necessarily 
have thought it worthwhile to advise Mrs K to make a report to the police  the claim likely 
not being accepted at that point. As a result, I think Aviva did as much as I could have 
expected of it. I dont think it acted incorrectly in declining Mrs Ks claim and so I wont be 
asking Aviva to reconsider its decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2020.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman