DRN-3054168
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about Easi-Drive Limited (EDL) and the way their claim was 
handled following a non-fault road traffic accident.
What happened
On 18 January 2019, Mr M and Mrs Ms car was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. 
They called their insurer to report the claim and they were eventually referred to EDL who 
were able to progress Mr M and Mrs Ms claim on a non-fault basis.
EDL arranged for Mr M and Mrs Ms car to be inspected and provided them with a hire car 
while this was done. This inspection took place on 24 January and was completed by an 
independent engineer, who Ill refer to as V. V deemed Mr M and Mrs Ms car a total loss 
as it was uneconomical to repair. They valued the car at £3,200, including a scrap value of 
£400. So, they recommended the third-party insurer (TPI) pay Mr M and Mrs M a pre 
accident value (PAV) of £2,800 as they classified the car as roadworthy.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree. They thought the PAV was too low and provided EDL with 
screenshots of other cars available for sale to support this. EDL passed this information to V 
but their valuation of the car remained the same. As Mr M and Mrs Ms car was deemed 
roadworthy, EDL explained on 1 February that the hire car would need to be taken back. But 
Mr M and Mrs M disputed this as they didnt feel their car was safe to drive.
EDL attempt to contact Mr M and Mrs M to arrange collection of the hire car on multiple 
occasions between 1  8 February without success. As Mr M and Mrs M failed to co-operate, 
EDL revoked the hire cars insurance and reported it stolen. Mr M and Mrs M were stopped 
and arrested by the police the following day, where the hire car was taken back. Mr M and 
Mrs M were unhappy with this, so they raised a complaint.
Mr M and Mrs M complained about EDLs handling of their claim. They didnt think the PAV 
theyd been offered was fair as they were unable to replace their car with a similar make and 
model. And they didnt think EDL were reasonable to report the hire car as stolen. They 
explained they felt unsafe driving their own car due to the damage and has suffered 
embarrassment and upset when they were arrested with their children in the hire car with 
them. So, they wanted to be compensated for this.
EDL responded and didnt agree. They thought the valuation of Mr M and Mrs Ms car was 
fair, and in line with industry guidelines. They explained the examples Mr M and Mrs M 
provided were for newer cars with less mileage. And they explained they had an obligation to 
mitigate their costs when handling the claim. So, as Mr M and Mrs Ms car had been deemed 
roadworthy, they thought taking back the hire car was reasonable. They thought theyd tried 
to contact Mr M and Mrs M to arrange this on several occasions without success so thought 
their decision to report the car as stolen was fair as it fell in line with their internal processes. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr M and Mrs M remained unhappy, 
so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained that regulation 
of accident management companies (AMC) such as EDL had transferred on 1 April 2019 
from the Claims Management Regulator (CMR) to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
So, as the events Mr M and Mrs M were complaining took place before this date, she 
explained shed considered Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint under the approach taken by the 
Legal Ombudsman (LO), who were the designated ombudsman scheme for the CMR at the 
time.
And having done so, she thought EDL had acted reasonably. She explained under LOs 
approach, EDL werent responsible for the valuation produced by V. And she thought EDL 
had forwarded Mr M and Mrs Ms challenge to V fairly, allowing V a chance to consider the 
information. So, she thought EDL had done all shed expect them to do. And she thought 
EDL had acted fairly when deciding to report the car as stolen, as shed thought EDL had 
exhausted attempts to arrange collection of the hire car with Mr M and Mrs M. For these 
reasons, she didnt think EDL needed to do anything more.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree. They thought EDL had failed to provide them with a 
reasonable service as they didnt think theyd been placed back in the position they wouldve 
been in, had the accident no occurred in the first place. So, they wanted to be compensated 
for the financial impact this had one them. As Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain my decision, I think it would be useful to explain the approach Ive taken. Up 
until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the CMR. And complaints about AMCs were 
dealt with by the LO. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of AMCs switched to the FCA, and 
complaints moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the events Mr M and 
Mrs M are complaining about took place before this change in regulation, my decision must 
be based on the approach the CMR and LO wouldve taken.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M and Mrs M. I recognise 
Mr M and Mrs M were placed in a position where they needed to purchase a new car 
through no fault of their own. So, I can appreciate why theyd be frustrated when the 
valuation of their car didnt meet their expectations. And because of this dispute, and the fact 
they didnt feel safe driving their own car, I can understand why they were reluctant to hand 
back the hire car they were given. And when they were arrested to retrieve this car, I can 
understand the upset and embarrassment they wouldve felt, especially as their children 
were with them at the time.
But for me to say EDL should compensate Mr M and Mrs M for this, Id need to be satisfied 
EDL did something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that EDL made a mistake that directly 
impacted the valuation of Mr M and Mrs Ms car. And Id need to be satisfied EDL acted 
unfairly when deciding to report the hire car as stolen, which led to the subsequent arrests. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the valuation of Mr M and Mrs Ms car. Under the CMR and LOs 
approach, EDL arent responsible for Vs report which included the valuation of Mr M and 
Mrs Ms car as V is treated as an independent third party. So, I cant say the initial valuation V provided is unfair. But I am aware Mr M and Mrs M challenged this and provided EDL with 
further information to support their challenge. I can see EDL provided this information to V 
but V stated it didnt change their opinion as the cars shown were of different ages and 
mileages. EDL passing this information to V on Mr M and Mrs Ms behalf is all Id expect 
them to do. I think they did this in a timely manner but unfortunately, V took the decision to 
maintain their original valuation. I cant say that EDL have done anything wrong in relation to 
this, so I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
Ive then thought about EDLs decision to report Mr M and Mrs Ms hire car as stolen. Ive 
seen Vs report, which deems Mr M and Mrs Ms own car as roadworthy after the accident. 
While I recognise Mr M and Mrs Ms concerns about this, Ive been provided with no 
evidence to show this decision by V was incorrect. So, I think EDL were fair to rely on this 
and proceed with the claim on this basis.
And when Mr M and Mrs Ms own car was deemed roadworthy, I think EDL acted reasonably 
by attempting to terminate the hire and collect the car. This is because EDL have a 
responsibility to mitigate the costs of the claim. Any costs they incur are claimed back from 
the TPI whose driver was at fault for the accident. And a TPI wouldnt pay for any hire costs 
incurred where a customers car is deemed roadworthy and therefore driveable. So, I think 
EDL were fair to try and arrange collection at this point.
Ive seen EDL tried to speak to Mr M and Mrs M about this on several occasion between 1  
8 February. And I cant see evidence that shows Mr M and Mrs M attempting to engage 
reasonably in these conversations. So, I dont think EDL had any other alternative than to 
report the car as stolen, in order to ensure the hire was terminated and the hire car was 
retrieved. Thats not to say I dont recognise the emotional upset Mr M and Mrs M wouldve 
been caused when they were stopped by the police and the actions they needed to take to 
prevent any further action. But I dont think this was caused by anything EDL did wrong. And 
because of this, I dont think EDL need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint about Easi-Drive 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman