DRN-4006165
The complaint
Miss W complains about the total loss category marker Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited placed on her car following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Ws car was damaged, and she made a claim on her policy, but she later withdrew it. 
Miss W was unhappy that during the claims process Advantage placed a Category N total 
loss marker on her car. Miss W was unhappy that Advantages engineer had decided this 
without physically inspecting her car. She wanted this removed and compensation. Miss W 
was also unhappy with Advantages service after the claim was closed. Advantage agreed 
its service had been lacking and it paid Miss W £75 compensation for this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantages compensation for the poor administrative service was fair and reasonable. He 
thought Advantage was required to record accurate information about the car in keeping with 
the insurers code of practice. And he thought it was reasonable for the qualified engineer to 
assess Miss Ws car based on photographs and a repairs estimate. So he didnt think 
Advantage had done anything wrong.
Miss W replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. She thought Advantage should have included her complaint about the 
category in an earlier complaint. She said her car was fully repaired, roadworthy and safe. 
She said Advantage hadnt fully explained the claims process to her. She said she had been 
penalised by Advantages failings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss W made an earlier complaint to Advantage about being given insufficient 
information about the claims process and the retention of her car and also that she felt that 
she was forced to make a claim. I can understand the strength of Miss Ws feelings. But I 
cant consider these concerns here as they have been the subject of a complaint already 
brought to our service and Miss W accepted the outcome. 
In the previous complaint, the categorisation of Miss Ws car was mentioned. But the 
previous Investigator explained that she would need to raise this as a further complaint to 
Advantage to give it opportunity to respond. So I disagree with her that Advantage is 
manipulating the complaints process to cause her further trouble and upset. 
I can also understand that Miss W feels frustrated that although her car was fully repaired, it 
now has a Category N marker placed on it. But, as our Investigator explained, Advantage 
has a duty to record accurate information about her cars history. 
Ive looked at Advantages engineers assessment of the car. And I can see that it is detailed 
and takes into account the likely repair costs, including those provided by Miss W. The repair 
costs were more than the cars value at the date of the incident. So Im satisfied that the car 
was correctly deemed to be beyond economical repair. 
So, the car was involved in an incident, a claim was made, albeit later withdrawn, and 
Advantage assessed the car to be beyond economical repair and to be a Category N total 
loss. The category is now part of the cars history, and this cant be removed even though 
Miss W later withdrew her claim and repaired the car herself. This is to provide potential 
buyers and insurers correct information about the car. 
So Im satisfied that Advantage has recorded accurate information about the cars history 
and that it hasnt done anything wrong by doing this. 
I can see that Advantage accepts that it failed to call Miss W as it said it would after the 
claim was closed. I think its offer of £75 compensation for this was fair and reasonable as its 
in keeping with our published guidance. I dont require Advantage to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman