DRN-4450625
The complaint
Ms B complains that Covea Insurance plc hasnt covered a claim she made under her pet 
insurance policy. 
Any reference to Covea includes the actions of its agents.  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Ms B had a pet insurance policy for her dog  who Ill refer to as H. The policy is 
underwritten by Covea. 
In February 2022, H was diagnosed with urothelial carcinoma (UCC), for which he 
had treatment. 
In August 2022, Hs prostate was found to be enlarged. Initially, a definitive diagnosis 
wasnt reached  though it was said to possibly be a low-grade carcinoma. Owing to 
his health issues, H was sadly, put to sleep in December 2022. 
Ms B made a claim for Hs urothelial carcinoma, prostate, and an ear infection. 
Covea covered the claim for the urothelial carcinoma and ear infection but said it 
wouldnt cover treatment regarding the prostate carcinoma as the policy limit had 
been reached for the condition of carcinoma. 
Ms B said this outcome was unfair as the prostate carcinoma was unrelated to the 
urothelial carcinoma. She provided evidence from the treating veterinary hospital 
which she considered supported her position. 
In summary, The Veterinary Professor said:
Previous biopsy of the prostate (at laparotomy) had shown only smooth 
muscle with infiltrating epithelial cords and tubules, and the pathologist had 
not been able to make a definitive diagnosis but had said it was possible 
these changes represented a low grade carcinoma.
The apparent lack of progression of this lesion [the prostate lesion] over the 
following two months while the UCC progressed supports a low grade lesion 
in the prostate and that the two lesions are unrelated.
Covea maintained its position, and so, Ms B brought a complaint to this Service. 
An Investigator considered it but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied, based on Hs 
clinical history, that the prostate lesion had been considered a carcinoma and that as 
the policy limit had been reached in respect of this condition  owing to the UCC 
claim being covered  Covea had acted fairly by declining to cover the prostate 
claim.  
Ms B remained unhappy and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. But before I explain why, I recognise this 
has been a very difficult time for Ms B - losing H has understandably, been a very upsetting 
event for her. 
Ms Bs policy covers £7,000 per incident  once the maximum benefit is reached, no further 
claims can be made for the condition. The policy defines incident as: 
A specifically identifiable accident, injury or illness. Recurring and/or chronic incidents shall 
be considered as one loss and/or condition. Such incidents being defined as: 
a) clinical manifestations resulting in the same diagnosis (regardless of the number of 
incidents or areas of the body affected) to which your pet has an ongoing 
predisposition or susceptibility, or injury related in any way to the original claim; or
b) incidents which are incurable and likely to continue for the remainder of your pets 
life.  
Covea has said the prostate carcinoma isnt covered because its a clinical manifestation 
which has resulted in the same diagnosis as the urothelial carcinoma  the diagnosis being 
carcinoma. Given the vet has said it was likely a low-grade carcinoma in the prostate, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Covea to consider the claim as one for prostate carcinoma. 
Ms B says her vets evidence supports her position that the two conditions are unrelated and 
so its unfair for Covea to treat it as one condition. Having read her vets comments, I am 
persuaded the prostate carcinoma isnt related to the urothelial carcinoma  in that it hasnt 
been shown for example, that the prostate carcinoma is a secondary cancer connected to 
the urothelial carcinoma. 
I also note Ms Bs vet has distinguished between the progression of the carcinomas. And 
whilst I accept this supports Ms Bs view that the two werent related, whats key is whether 
the prostate carcinoma had the same diagnosis as the urothelial carcinoma. Here, both 
organs had the diagnosis of carcinoma and so, even though the prostate carcinoma was 
unrelated to the urothelial carcinoma - it was caused by the same thing  namely, 
carcinoma. And so, Im satisfied its reasonable for Covea to consider it as one condition. 
I realise this will be disappointing for Ms B but as the policy limit had been reached for the 
condition of carcinoma (by Covea covering the urothelial carcinoma claim), Im satisfied 
Coveas decision to not cover the prostate carcinoma claim because there was no remaining 
indemnity for the condition of carcinoma, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman