DRN-3824141
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(Argos) was irresponsible to agree credit for her.
What happened
Argos opened a credit card account for Miss Y in December 2017. This type of credit was an 
open-ended or running account facility and the credit limit was £600. 
Miss Y said that Argos should never have allowed her to open an account because she 
couldnt afford the repayments and had recently taken out several other credit cards. Miss Y 
also said that she was borrowing from short term lenders at the time and spending money on 
gambling.
Argos said that it checked Miss Ys credit file to assess her level of existing debt and her 
management of it before opening an account for her. Argos said that Miss Y met the relevant 
criteria at the time the application was made and so it acted correctly in opening the account 
for her. It didnt uphold Miss Ys complaint. 
Miss Y referred her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint be 
upheld. They found that Argos should have looked for more information about Miss Ys 
circumstances before opening an account for her. However, they also found that further 
information wouldnt have led Argos to decline to lend to her because it was likely to have 
seen that the credit was affordable. 
Our investigator also found that Argos wouldnt have known about Miss Ys gambling as it 
seemed she didnt share this information with it. Our investigator concluded that Argos didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit agreement. 
Miss Y didnt agree with this conclusion and asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Argos, need to abide by. 
Argos will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer to them 
where appropriate. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, Argos needed to check that Miss Y could afford to 
meet her repayments sustainably, in other words out of income (or available savings), within 
a reasonable period of time, without having to borrow further and without experiencing 
financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to 
the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for example) and to Miss Ys particular 
circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that Argos needed to pay due regard to Miss Ys interests 
and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting 
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
My main considerations are did Argos complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Miss Ys application to satisfy itself that she would be able to make her 
repayments sustainably? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown and, ultimately, did Argos make a fair lending decision? 
Having considered everything carefully, I am not upholding Miss Ys complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for her and Ive explained below how Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
Argos said it checked Miss Ys credit file before lending to her, but it hasnt provided me with 
a copy of its results beyond affordability scores. Argos hasnt said that it checked Miss Ys 
means before lending to her. It seems to me that it would be necessary to at least have an 
understanding of Miss Ys income in order to assess whether or not shed be able to repay 
the credit sustainably. The regulations in place at the time said that a lender should set the 
credit limit based on a credit worthiness assessment taking into account sufficient 
information and in particular, the information it has on the customers current disposable 
income. So I cant say that Argos carried out a proportionate check on this occasion. 
Miss Y has provided her payslips for December 2017 and March 2018 and bank statements 
for her current account covering November 2017 to February 2018. Ive reviewed these to 
get an understanding of what Argos might have found out had it carried out a proportionate 
check. To be clear, Im not suggesting this is what Argos ought to have done but, in the 
absence of any other evidence I think its reasonable to place some reliance on this 
information.
Miss Y was earning on average about £600 a month around that time and I can see from her 
payslips that her hours varied. She was living with her parents and told us she paid £200 a 
month for rent. I can identify a couple of payments entitled rent on Miss Ys bank 
statements, both for less than £100. I can see payments for three store or credit cards and a 
phone bill. Miss Y said that she had no credit history when she applied for her Argos account 
and that she had opened three credit accounts just beforehand. 
I dont think further information about Miss Ys income, her existing debts or living costs 
would have caused concern to Argos to the extent that it would have declined to lend to her. 
Although Miss Ys income was relatively low, it seems to me that her existing regular 
commitments were also relatively low. Although she opened several lines of credit around 
that time, I dont think Argos would have found out about these before opening her account. 
Miss Y told us that she spent money on gambling. Our investigator found that Argos wasnt 
likely to know about Miss Ys gambling spend and so wouldnt have considered this before 
lending to her. 
Miss Ys bank statements show spending on travel, food and entertainment including 
gambling. For example, in November 2017 Miss Y spent about £220 on takeaways and 
about £150 on gambling. In December these amounts came to about £120 and £100 
respectively. Miss Y described this spending as a problem for her and I dont doubt what 
shes told us about her experience. However, it seems to me that Miss Y wasnt spending so much on any one particular activity at that time that Argos would have concluded its credit 
was unsuitable for her or that shed have difficulty with her repayments, even if it had seen 
these transactions.
Miss Y did mention that she borrowed from short term lenders but I havent seen any 
examples of this before she opened her Argos account.  Miss Y also said that she borrowed 
from friends and family. The statements show many transfers in and out of her account, 
some referenced and some not, and I dont think having sight of these transactions would 
have caused Argos concern. 
Altogether, I think its likely Argos would have offered Miss Y the account even if it had 
looked further into her circumstances before lending to her. So I cant say that it was 
irresponsible to have done so. 
Miss Y told us that she hasnt been able to repay the credit she took on and several of her 
accounts are now in default. Shes told us shes struggling with her finances and has 
dependants. I am sorry to hear of Miss Ys difficulties and I appreciate that this is not the 
outcome to her complaint that she was hoping for. As Argos will know, it needs to treat 
Miss Y fairly and with forbearance and due consideration if she is in financial difficulty, which 
might include coming to an affordable repayment plan with her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Miss Ys complaint about Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman