DRN-4225890
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Premier Benefit Solutions Limited trading as Premier Wealth 
Plannings (PWP) service when she approached it for advice about transferring her defined 
benefit (DB) occupational pension to an alternative arrangement.
Mrs Ws husband, Mr W, represented Mrs W both in dealing with PWP and in referring her 
complaint to this Service.
What happened
Mrs W was a deferred member of her former employers DB scheme. In 2021, when Mrs W 
was aged 59, the DB scheme administrators wrote to her. They enclosed a pack of 
information about her entitlement under the scheme which included three options: to remain 
in the scheme and take a full pension; to remain in the scheme and take a lump sum of tax 
free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension; to transfer the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) from the scheme to an alternative arrangement. The administrators said that if 
Mrs W was considering the third option then her former employer would pay for PWP to give 
her advice.
Mrs W contacted PWP. It spoke with her and Mr W and gathered information about her 
current circumstances and objectives in retirement. Amongst other things Mrs W said she 
was still working and hoped to continue to do so until at least 65. She was the principal 
income earner. Mr W wasnt working and wasnt likely to start work again. He had an 
uncrystallised defined contribution (DC) pension worth around £30,000. They lived in their 
own home mortgage free. They had savings of around £36,000 in total. They would like to 
buy a motorhome costing between £30,000 and £38,000. They wanted to keep at least 
£20,000 as an emergency fund. 
PWP gathered further information, including an updated CETV from the DB schemes 
administrators, which showed that Mrs Ws DB fund:
had a CETV of almost £128,000 guaranteed until 31 December 2021; 
would pay her a full pension at age 65 of around £6,000 a year, or TFC of around 
£29,500 and a reduced pension of roughly £4,400. 
PWP then completed its advice in two stages: abridged advice and full advice. After the 
abridged advice stage PWP did further analysis, including obtaining an appropriate pension 
transfer report (APTA) and a Transfer Value Comparator (TVC). In November 2021 it sent 
Mrs W its suitability report, setting out its analysis and recommendations. It recommended 
that Mrs W should not transfer out of her DB scheme. Amongst other things it said she had 
no need to transfer at that time and she would be unlikely to match her DB scheme benefits 
by transferring to an alternative pension arrangement.
Mr and Mrs W spoke with PWP in early December 2021. In brief they were disappointed with 
the recommendation not to transfer. They felt PWP's advice hadn't reflected their desires 
and their understanding of the risks involved. PWP said its advice was that Mrs Ws pension 
funds were safer in the DB scheme and it couldnt make a positive recommendation to 
transfer when Mrs W had no immediate plans for the money. PWP said it would review its 
advice.
Mr W contacted PWP around two weeks later. He said PWP had told him it would review its 
advice but that hadn't happened. On 20 December 2021, one of PWPs partners noted hed 
reviewed the case and spoken with Mr W. PWPs partner was satisfied with its original 
advice. 
Mr W spoke with PWPs partner in April 2022. He said his wifes situation had changed. The 
partner was talking on his mobile phone and wasnt in the office. He told Mr W he would get 
someone to call him back.
Mr W spoke with PWPs partner again in June 2022. Mr W said hed been waiting for the 
return call since April. The partner apologised for not calling Mr W back during that call. He 
said Mr W could either choose to appoint PWP or another IFA to review the situation but he 
added that, owing to the state of the market, it was likely the CETV would have reduced. 
In August 2022 Mr W complained to PWP about its advice and service. It acknowledged the 
complaint but didnt formally reply.
Mr and Mrs W then brought their complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. In 
her assessment of the complaint she focussed on the suitability of PWPs advice. She 
pointed out that the regulators guidance is that advising firms like PWP should begin the 
advice process from the perspective that a transfer will be unsuitable for most people. She 
noted that PWP had given a number of reasons for why a transfer wasnt in Mrs Ws best 
interests. She agreed with its analysis and, having done so, she didnt think PWP needed to 
take any further action.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
And, while I've considered everything on file, I dont intend to address each and every point 
or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key outstanding 
issues at the heart of Mrs Ws complaint and the reasons for my decision.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What Ive set out below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied 
at the time of the advice, but it provides useful context for my assessment of PWP's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that, when 
considering a transfer from a DB scheme:
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A 
firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.
So, the starting assumption is that a DB transfer is unsuitable. This is known as the 
presumption of unsuitability. It follows that PWP should only have considered 
recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time 
that it was in Mrs Ws best interests.
Did Mr and Mrs W complain about the suitability of PWPs advice?
In response to our Investigators complaint assessment Mr W said their complaint wasnt 
about the suitability of PWPs advice. Instead it was about PWPs service and in particular 
that it hadn't arranged to review its advice as it had said it would. 
Mr W said that in one of two complaint forms he and Mrs W sent to this office, under a 
heading of How would you like the business to put things right for you? they didnt mention 
the advice only that PWP hadn't reviewed it. 
However, having carefully considered the full file I can understand why our Investigator felt 
that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint focused on the content and quality of PWPs advice. 
At an early stage after PWP gave its advice, Mr and Mrs W told PWP they were 
disappointed with it. They also sent PWP an email in which they set out their reasons for 
disagreeing with [the advisers] recommendation not to transfer the funds. And they put 
forward their concerns and counter-arguments. In other words they werent happy with the 
advice and thought the outcome was wrong. Put another way they didnt think the outcome 
was suitable for them.
Further when they complained to this office, amongst other things, Mr and Mrs W made 
numerous comments that indicated they were unhappy with the quality - and therefore the 
suitability - of PWPs advice. For example they said:
[PWPs] decision to not recommend a transfer came as a huge shock to both of us.
[the advisers] calculations regarding our then financial situation were completely wrong 
Most of his calculations did not make sense
we believe the advice was incorrect due to the poor way it was conducted. Including 
calculations that made little sense, that would also have lost us benefits, and a statement 
that we didn't understand the process, yet were not given the opportunity to demonstrate 
otherwiseWe feel the 'free' advice has been wasted due to the unprofessional conduct of Premier 
Wealth.
They added that PWP had not recommended the transfer for spurious reasons. 
All of the above comments (amongst others) paint a clear picture that Mr and Mrs W were 
very unhappy that the advice did not go the way that they had hoped it would. Also, that they 
felt the advice wasnt of the quality they expected. So theres clear evidence on file, that 
when Mr and Mrs W complained to both PWP and this Service they were unhappy with the 
content, quality and outcome of PWPs advice. 
Mr Ws since said that they only referred to the outcome of the advice to give background to 
their complaint. But, as I've said above, I think the manner in which they set out their 
concerns gave the impression that their complaint was centred on the quality and suitability 
of PWPs advice and the outcome that led to. In other words that they felt that PWP should 
have come to a different conclusion.
It is the case that Mr and Mrs W did not refer to the suitability of PWPs advice when they 
completed our complaint forms. But, they were clear that the principal outcome they were 
seeking from making their complaint was for PWP to pay for alternative advice from another 
adviser of their choosing.
But before I could reasonably direct PWP to pay for further advice Id need to be persuaded 
that there was something wrong with PWPs advice. It wouldn't be fair for me to instruct 
PWP to take on the financial burden of paying for alternative advice, unless its own advice 
was in some way unsuitable, unfair or unreasonable. 
So, in order to determine whether or not I could direct PWP to pay for further advice from a 
different advising firm, I first need to consider PWPs advice and whether or not its 
recommendation was suitable for Mrs W. But, as Mr and Mrs W have said that isn't the focus 
of their complaint Ive kept my comments brief.
Was PWPs advice suitable?
In Mr Ws response to our Investigators complaint assessment hes suggested that our staff 
are unlikely to have the required qualifications to be able to assess suitability of advice. 
However, while I understand the point hes making, were not required to hold the same 
qualifications as pension transfer advisers in order to comment on the suitability of regulated 
advice. Indeed it is something that we do regularly. When doing so were required, as 
explained above, to take into account the relevant law and regulations as well as standards. 
But our remit is broader than that and our tests are more flexible than simply looking at 
compliance with regulations. Instead were required to decide whether a firm like PWP has 
dealt with a consumer fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. And 
thats what I've done below. 
Its clear Mr and Mrs W were disappointed with PWPs conclusion that she shouldnt transfer 
her DB funds. It seems they were expecting the outcome to be a positive one, so I can 
understand their dissatisfaction that the transfer didnt happen. But after careful 
consideration I think PWPs advice was reasonable in the circumstances.
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) compared with other pension products available on the open 
market. And thats one of the reasons why the regulator insists that consumers require 
regulated DB transfer advice before a transfer may go ahead. DB pension schemes 
generally provide a safeguarded, guaranteed and index linked income for their members at virtually no risk to the member themselves. The alternatives generally rely on returns from 
the investment markets. And those bring with them investment risks. So transferring 
guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme to an investment environment puts those otherwise 
safeguarded benefits at risk.
Further transferring from a DB scheme is a one-off event; once transferred theres no going 
back  the benefits are lost forever. So, when giving DB pension transfer advice PWPs role 
wasnt to simply do what Mr and Mrs W wanted it to do, no matter how convinced they were 
that a transfer was suitable for Mrs W. Instead PWP was required to understand their wants 
and needs, not just their thoughts, wishes and desires. And, in order to meet its regulatory 
requirements, PWP could only make a recommendation to transfer if it was convinced, on 
contemporary evidence, that it was in Mrs Ws best interests.
In this instance, after completing full advice, PWP concluded that a transfer wasnt in 
Mrs Ws best interests. In coming to that conclusion, PWP obtained an APTA and a TVC 
which indicated that Mrs W would most likely be worse off in retirement by transferring. PWP 
also identified that Mr and Mrs W could meet their financial needs while Mrs W remained in 
her DB scheme. Ive noted that Mr W has taken issue with PWPs analysis of the figures, 
but, having looked at those carefully, I feel its analysis is sound. 
PWP said Mrs W had no need to put her DB funds at risk, in order to achieve her financial 
goals. Essentially, PWPs analysis showed that if Mr W used TFC and his full tax allowance 
from his DC pension it would allow Mr and Mrs W to buy a motorhome without touching the 
DB scheme funds. And, as Mrs W intended to carry on working they could continue to use 
her funds for day-to-day outgoings and had no immediate need to transfer her DB funds and 
put those at risk until such point in time that they did need them.
Further, PWPs analysis showed that Mrs W would be extremely unlikely to match the 
benefits from her DB scheme by transferring. In other words it thought Mr and Mrs W would 
be better off if she remained in the scheme. So PWP didnt think the contemporary evidence 
clearly demonstrated that transferring was in her best interests. I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs W will disagree with me, but I think PWPs analysis is fair and reasonable. So I think its 
advice was appropriate in the circumstances.
Did PWP review its advice?
When Mr and Mrs W raised their concerns about PWPs advice, the adviser concerned said 
he would put those to his manager to review the advice. Mr and Mrs W believe that PWP 
reneged on that undertaking to review the advice. But, I think theyre mistaken.
PWPs explained to us that it passed the matter to one of its partners to review. In 
December 2021 the partner reviewed the advice and found it to be sound. So it didnt think 
the advice needed any correction. PWP told us that the partner spoke with Mr W to explain 
this. 
In contrast Mr Ws said that the partner told him on two occasions that a review would be 
arranged. The inference being that the partner would arrange for someone other than 
himself to review the advice. But I think Mr W has misunderstood. 
Mr W gave us some call recordings both with PWPs initial adviser and its partner. 
Unfortunately he didnt have a recording of the December 2021 call with the partner and 
neither did PWP keep a recording of that call. But, PWPs file shows that the initial adviser 
did refer his advice for review. It also shows that the partner reviewed the advice and found it 
to be sound. That is the partner was satisfied that the advice and recommendation were suitable for Mrs W. The file also shows that the adviser then spoke with Mr W to explain the 
outcome of his review.
I've noted that when Mr W spoke with the partner in April 2022 Mr W acknowledged that 
theyd had a good long chat about the matter previously. And the partner said in the April 
call that he remembered reviewing the case. So I'm satisfied that PWP did arrange for the 
case to be reviewed as it said it would and the partner carried out that review in 
December 2021. I'm also satisfied that the partner gave the outcome of that review to Mr W 
in the December call. It follows that I don't agree with Mr and Mrs W that PWP had offered to 
review the case but failed to do so.
That said it does appear there may have been some miscommunication on the matter. It 
seems that during the December 2021 conversation the partner told Mr W that PWP could 
review the case again at some point in the future. And I note that during the April 2022 
conversation the partner told Mr W that he would put the wheels in motion for that review to 
take place. But, if he took any follow up action, it doesn't appear PWP acted upon it, as it 
didnt contact Mr and Mrs W again. 
While I haven't heard the December 2021 call, I think its likely that either the partner didnt 
make himself clear or Mr W misunderstood the scope of any further review. Mrs Ws former 
employer was covering PWPs costs for providing its initial advice. That fee would almost 
certainly have included the costs of an initial review following Mr and Mrs Ws dissatisfaction 
with it to ensure its advice was suitable for Mrs W. But, once PWP had completed that 
process and was satisfied its advice was appropriate it had discharged its duty to deliver 
advice as paid for by the employer. So, any further review would not have involved PWP 
picking the matter up again and revisiting its earlier decision. Instead it would have been a 
separate advice process. And that process would have attracted a fee, which Mr and Mrs W 
would have been liable to pay. But its not clear whether Mr W was aware of that.
I do understand it must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs W that PWP didnt arrange to 
contact them following the April 2022 call. But, I note the partner did apologise for not 
arranging that contact in the subsequent June 2022 call. Its worth commenting that, while 
the partner didnt get back to them in April 2022, Mr and Mrs W didnt have to limit their 
contact with PWP to the partner alone. They could have contacted it via their initial adviser 
or from other details available from PWPs website. So I don't think the partners failure to 
get back to them prevented PWP giving further advice. But, if Mr and Mrs W had contacted 
PWP again I think it would have made it clear at that point that any further advice would 
attract a fee. And, on balance, given their dissatisfaction with PWPs advice to date, I dont 
think they would have paid that fee. So, I dont think their position is materially different 
because the partner didnt arrange further contact with PWP.
For completeness, I'm aware that Mr and Mrs W were unhappy that PWP acknowledged 
their complaint but then didnt provide a formal response to it. The regulator gives firms like 
PWP eight weeks to consider a complaint. In this case that didnt happen. But the regulator 
allows for complaints to be referred to our service in those circumstances. So, while I can 
understand that PWPs failure to provide a formal response to their complaint was a further 
source of frustration to Mr and Mrs W, it didnt prevent them from bringing their concerns to 
our Service. And it hasn't affected the outcome of our considerations of it. It follows that I 
don't think PWP needs to take any further action.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman