DRN-3196212
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) incorrectly charged interest on 
their offset mortgage account.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr E says they hold an offset mortgage account with Barclays and the deposits 
they hold are in excess of the mortgage balance outstanding. Mrs E and Mr E says despite 
this in November 2020, Barclays charged them interest of £528.16. Mrs E and Mr E says no 
one has ever explained to them why they have been charged interest, even though they kept 
within the offset balance arrangements.
Mrs E and Mr E want Barclays to refund the interest they have been charged.
Barclays says the reason for the interest being charged is due to the fact the interest rate on 
Mrs Es and Mr Es mortgage account increased from 1 November 2020, but the 
corresponding interest rate on the deposits they hold are calculated one month in arrears. 
Barclays says this meant the difference in the interest due and the credit interest received 
needed to be paid, and it was correctly applied. 
Mrs E and Mr E werent happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Barclays correctly applied the interest charge given the deposit account 
interest is calculated one month in arrears. The investigator says Barclays have explained 
how the offset arrangement works in an email to Mr E in November 2020 and it made no 
error here. 
Mrs E and Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mrs E and Mr E to see they paid interest 
on their offset mortgage, when they had sufficient funds on deposit to cover their mortgage 
balance outstanding at that time. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays 
have correctly applied the interest it charged in November 2020 to Mrs Es and Mr Es offset 
mortgage account. 
It's worth mentioning that the mortgage provided to Mrs E and Mr E was taken on a non-
advisory basis. 
The first thing to say here is while Mrs E and Mr E have an offset mortgage with Barclays, 
thats not to say there wouldnt be occasions where interest may become payable. While Mrs 
E and Mr E may have believed the balance on any savings account is simply netted off 
against any outstanding mortgage balance, that isnt always the case. What actually 
happens, is interest earned on any offset savings accounts held would be used to reduce 
any interest charged on the outstanding mortgage account balance. For the majority of the 
time that would mean the interest payable on any offset savings account would match the 
interest charged on the outstanding mortgage, if the savings balance was equal to or more 
than the mortgage balance outstanding, but there are occasions when that wont be the 
case. 
I say this because I have been provided with a copy of both the terms and conditions of this 
offset mortgage when it was originally taken out in 2016, along with Barclays current offset 
mortgage brochure. In the original terms and conditions that accompanied Mrs Es and Mrs 
Es mortgage offer in 2016 it states, under Part 3- Offset conditions, section 9.1 Calculating 
Interest:
If you have an offset arrangement we will calculate the interest which is payable under 
Condition 4 by calculating the Calculating Capital of your Loan for interest purposes as: (i) 
the then outstanding amount of your Loan and (if applicable) any outstanding debit balance 
on your Mortgage Current Account Reserve less (ii) the amounts of the credit balances held 
in the Mortgage Current Account (if applicable) and any other Offset Accounts. This 
calculation will be done on a daily basis.
If you have chosen to apply any interest saved by offsetting to reduce the Monthly Payment, 
the interest saved will be applied to the Monthly Payment in the following month. This means 
that:
(a) your first Monthly Payment will not take into account the offset (any interest saved in the 
first month will be applied to the second Monthly Payment) : and 
(b) each Monthly Payment (apart from your first Monthly Payment) will take into account 
interest saved by offsetting in the previous month.
In addition, the brochure Barclays produced also states : 
Your first monthly payment will be reduced by the Offset Benefit you have earned by the 
end of the month when your mortgage completes. This is because each monthly payment is 
reduced by the amount of Offset Benefit that you have earned  in the previous month. What 
will I pay each month thereafter? Each of the following monthly payments will be reduced 
by the Offset Benefit earned during the previous month".
What this is saying in effect, is the interest accrued on the savings held to offset the 
mortgage account interest due, is paid one month in arrears. So, for example any interest 
charged on Mrs Es and Mr Es mortgage would be offset against the interest calculated on 
the savings account at the interest rate payable for the previous month. 
In this case Mrs E and Mr E changed their offset mortgage interest product following its 
maturity at the end of October 2020, to an interest rate of 3.59% from its previous interest 
rate of 1.43%. But here, as the offset arrangement was based on the interest earned on the 
savings account, up to the mortgage balance outstanding, for the previous month, it would 
have meant the interest earned on the savings account would be at 1.43% (base rate plus 1.33%) when the mortgage interest would have been charged at the higher rate of 3.59% 
(base rate plus 3.49%) - which is where the interest differential comes from here. 
With that in mind, and while Mrs E and Mr E may have believed the offset mortgage worked 
differently, I am satisfied the terms and conditions do explain how the offset interest 
arrangements are calculated. Its fair to say that it remains the responsibility of Mrs E and Mr 
E to have fully read the mortgage terms and conditions at the time the mortgage was offered 
to them. 
While Mrs E and Mr E will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Barclays here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman