DRN-4316054
The complaint
Mr B, represented by his court appointed deputy, Mr W, has complained about his home 
insurer Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) in relation to a claim he made following a 
flood at his home.
The court has appointed two deputies to act for Mr B in respect of financial issues. They are 
appointed on a joint and several basis. Here Mr W has been handling the claim and has 
made the complaint, although he has often utilised the services of solicitors in doing so. 
Apart from where relevant, in the body of this decision, I will likely only refer to Mr W or, 
occasionally, Mr B.
AIE is the underwriter for Mr Bs policy. But it uses other companies to handle the claim for it. 
Including loss adjusters. AIE is responsible for the actions of those it has appointed to act on 
its behalf. So any failure by the loss adjuster, for example, is a failure by AIE.
What happened
There was a flood on 17 May 2021. Mr W made a claim to AIE and it appointed loss 
adjusters. On 13 July 2021 the loss adjusters told Mr W that damage to Mr Bs garden and 
patio werent covered due to an exclusion in the policys statement of fact. Some of the claim 
continued to progress and/or was settled. But Mr W disputed the documents AIE had relied 
upon regarding the garden and patio.
As the rest of the claim progressed, with the property having been declared dry by 
September 2021, Mr W became concerned about the work that was being done. A site visit 
took place in October 2021 and it was agreed re-work was required. Mr W, twice on 
17 December 2021, wrote to AIE detailing Mr Bs complaints. In summary that; information 
requested had not been provided, the patio and garden damage had been declined on 
incorrect policy terms, further alternative accommodation (AA) payments were required 
including council tax not having been paid at all, poor work had been done with some agreed 
work also having been missed from the schedule and the claim had been delayed.
AIE acknowledged there had been poor work. A new loss adjuster was also appointed in 
January 2022. Also in January 2022 Mr W informed AIE that Mr B had received a court 
summons regarding the outstanding council tax.
On 10 February 2022 there was a meeting at Mr Bs home to discuss the works and it was 
agreed the current builder could be replaced by AIE, or a cash settlement made so a 
contractor chosen by Mr B (or his representatives) could complete work. An agreement to 
progress the contents claim and make some outstanding payments for that was reached. 
Around this time further AA payments were also made.
A letter from the loss adjuster dated 10 February 2022 responded to some of the other 
concerns Mr W had raised. Notably regarding the patio and garden. It felt its answer, that 
this was not covered, was correct but with the caveat that AIE was still considering which 
policy documents were relevant. The adjuster accepted this answer was delayed, as had 
been some payments. The adjuster said £250 compensation would be paid. The letter 
acknowledged that Mr B had said he was unhappy with the work  but said this had not 
featured in the complaint letter dated 17 December 2021. 
The loss adjuster wrote a further letter to Mr B on 8 April 2022. This confirmed that since the 
letter and meeting of 10 February 2022, the adjuster had been waiting on a response from 
Mr W to the proposals for moving the claim forwards. It also acknowledged that, overall, the 
claim had been subject to delays on account of its poor handling. Mr W responded to the 
loss adjuster about ten days later and in August 2022 Mr W made a complaint on behalf of 
Mr B to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator explained that she could only look at the complaint as raised by Mr B in 
December 2021. She felt the external damage to patios and gardens should be considered 
under the claim (noting damage to the drive also), and that a surveyor should be appointed 
to determine what was needed to reinstate the property as a whole. With AIE paying Mr B 
the cost of the necessary work or, if Mr B wanted it to, it doing the repairs. She also felt that 
a total of £750 compensation was due (so a further £500 paid if £250 already had been).
Mr W felt that might be acceptable as long as Mr B could appoint the surveyor. He asked 
that AIE be directed regarding future AA payments. He said legal costs were currently at 
£37,000 and felt AIE should be required to pay these too.
AIE said it had already completed surveys of the property  the latest of which, along with 
the cost for the work identified, had been shared with Mr W in January 2023. When our 
Investigator asked it about Mr Bs legal costs, it said it wouldnt cover these  the solicitors 
had acted in the role of a loss assessing company. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
I was minded to uphold it. I felt AIE should be providing a breakdown of an emergency 
payment issued in 2021, that it should include damaged exterior hardstanding areas within 
the claim and also pay a total of £1,000 compensation. But I wasnt minded to apply any 
direction regarding future payments or any requirement to make it pay legal costs. The 
parties replied. AIE generally accepted what Id said. Mr W challenged some of my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I quote below, in italics (subject headings aside), my provisional findings. Where applicable, 
Ill detail the relevant responses from the parties, along with my further review.  
I first need to set some parameters for what I am considering here. Mr B is represented by 
his court appointed deputy, Mr W. Mr W is partner in a solicitor firm and has chosen to use 
the services of the firm to handle matters on his/Mr Bs behalf. The complaint to AIE was 
made in two letters of 17 December 2021. AIE sought to respond to that complaint by its 
actions and in letters of February and April 2022. With the claim then moving on from there. 
So my complaint consideration will focus on those issues and responses, to the date of the 
second letter from AIE answering Mr Bs complaint, dated 8 April 2022. Any issues raised by 
either party, or activity which has occurred, after that time will not be taken into account by 
me here.
Failure to provide requested informationThree requests which hadnt been met by AIE were detailed by Mr W. As far as I can see, 
AIE hasnt commented on this issue and two of the three items havent been provided, but 
I think one has. Of the remaining two, Im only going to require AIE to provide one.
Breakdown of repair costs  this is the item Im not going to require AIE to provide. It is quite 
normal in insurance claims for the insurer or loss adjuster to provide a detailed scope of 
work. A costed copy will be kept on record. But an uncosted copy is shared with the 
policyholder. That is because the costs for the insurer are a commercial issue between it and 
its contractor. 
Breakdown of emergency payment issued in August 2021  I think AIE should be providing 
this key claim information. I havent seen it has done so previously and it hasnt shared any 
detail about this payment with us. Ill require it to provide it to Mr W. 
An amended (from original dated 31 August 2021) contents list  I can see from the loss 
adjuster reports in spring 2022 that an amended list was provided towards the end of 
February 2022. I wont require this to be provided again. 
Repair costs  Mr W said that not having a costed breakdown was causing delays to the 
claim and allowed for the potential for poor work to be completed. Im not persuaded that the 
lack of a costed breakdown has caused delays or allows a potential for poor work. Ive seen 
no good reason here to move away from the standard approach which allows insurers to 
provide uncosted scopes to the policyholder/their representative.
Emergency payment  AIE said that the August 2021 emergency payment was made up of 
six months rent for June to December 2021 at £7,500, a deposit (which will be claimed back 
later) of £1,442.31 and a contents payment of £750. As AIE has now provided this 
breakdown, Ill remove the recommendation for its provision from my Putting things right 
section below. If Mr W has any concerns about the breakdown now provided, he can discuss 
this further with AIE, making a further complaint if necessary.
 
Cover for patio/garden
Initial reports from the early stages of the claim havent been provided. Theres minimal 
detail about the external damage claimed for in this respect, although there is some 
reference to there being damage to the driveway. I think AIE has handled this issue very 
poorly  theres been a live query about what cover was in place for Mr B since 2021 and, to 
date, AIE hasnt provided any satisfactory reply  not even in response to our Investigators 
enquiry made to it in December 2022 before she issued her view. So Ive taken a view on 
what cover Mr B had.
Mr W has presented policy documents with a reference ending 6558. This is the reference 
that the loss adjusters used on their reports. So Im satisfied this was the policy in place and 
against which the claim should be considered. AIE though has declined cover for the patio 
and garden, and I think also the driveway, based on a quote document it has presented. This 
document says Mr B has specifically chosen to not cover outbuildings, fences, patios and 
driveways. Our investigator noted this post-dates the loss, so felt it couldnt be relied upon. 
But Im conscious that when a claim is made, policy documents are reprinted and this can 
sometimes cause an anomaly with dates. Thats because original dates are overridden by 
the date of printing. Nevertheless, I think that AIE cant reasonably rely on this document in 
support of it not covering damage to Mr Bs garden, patio and driveway. That is because that 
document does not include a policy reference number, and the detail about not including 
drives and patios does not come through on the policy documents that do include the policy 
reference number used by AIE during this claim.  The policy with reference ending 6558 defines buildings to include exterior areas of 
hardstanding such as drives, paths, patios and walls. And it offers cover for damage to 
buildings from flood. So Im satisfied that any areas or structures of hardstanding at Mr Bs 
home damaged by the flood, reasonably fall due for consideration under this claim. The 
policy also does offer some cover for gardens, which I take to be lawned areas and flower 
beds. But that is only when damage is caused in certain circumstances/by certain events. 
With flood not being one of the listed circumstances or events. So if grassed or bedded 
areas forming the exterior of Mr Bs property were damaged by the flood, AIE is correct that 
they reasonably do not fall for consideration as part of this claim. AIE will have to amend any 
scope of repair to include the flood damaged hardstanding type structures.
AIEs loss adjuster said he is unsure what damage exists externally to be included into the 
claim. Mr W said he doesnt agree with my view about how/why the policy documents AIE 
had used to previously dispute cover for the exterior damage existed. He said he doesnt 
agree that damage to the garden from flooding is excluded  that the part of the policy I have 
referred to in this respect is for additional cover for trespass protection.
I note Mr W disagrees with me as to why the policy AIE used to dispute liability for external 
damage exists. But AIE has not disputed my finding that it is not relevant and cant be relied 
upon. My view remains that it is not the relevant policy document and cant be relied upon by 
AIE to dispute liability. 
Mr W will likely understand that insurance policies are inclusive by nature. They cant detail 
everything which is not covered, for something to be covered it has to be included. The 
policy offers cover for damage to contents and buildings. Lawned areas and flower beds are 
not contents items. As I noted the policy definition for buildings refers only to hardstanding 
type areas and structures. It does not include lawned areas and flower beds. My view 
remains that AIE is liable for flood damage to areas or structures of hardstanding  and as it 
is not sure what damage in these respects exists (apart from to the house itself), it will now 
have to investigate and consider that. I will not be directing it to include flood damaged 
lawned areas or flower beds within the claim.
AA
In the complaint letter of December 2021, the then current rental costs and council tax 
charges were discussed. With requests for payments of the same being made. AIE didnt 
answer these concerns specifically in the complaint response letters of February and 
April 2022. But the loss adjuster issued some internal reports in February and March 2022. 
These included requests for payments for AA. When Mr W made the complaint to us in 
August 2022, no outstanding payments were detailed. Rather a request was made that AIE 
be required, moving forward, to continue covering the cost of AA. And later a request was 
made that a time period for payment was applied. So whilst there were payments requested 
in December 2021, they seem to have been resolved with relevant payments having been 
made. So I wont be requiring AIE to make further payments in this respect. 
I dont think there was any good reason for AA payments being so delayed though. To the 
extent that Mr B, in January 2022, received a court summons regarding outstanding council 
tax. I think this, in particular, was very distressing for Mr B.
Mr W said the claim has continued to be delayed, so AIE should be directed to continue 
paying AA. With a direction for a time period for said payments also being applied. If not, 
Mr W said, Mr B will continue experiencing delays, causing him worry and anxiety.I note Mr Ws concern for his ward. But I think Mr W will understand that the nature of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not one of a claim handler. Im not going to make any 
onward direction to AIE regarding AA payments. 
Poor work
I think its safe to say that AIE accepts that poor work was done at the property. Mr W 
argues work was missed off the scope too. AIE disputes that.
Mr W said that the previous contractors had agreed to do some private work at Mr Bs home. 
But that this wasnt included in the schedule. I think that was reasonable  the schedule 
reflects AIEs liability, so wouldnt include private works. If/when new contractors are 
appointed, Mr W can negotiate with them whether private work can be undertaken  with it 
being private work, scopes, costs etc would need to be agreed between the contractor and 
Mr W  AIE would not be involved in that. 
Regarding the work AIE is liable for, in a meeting in October 2021, it was accepted that poor 
work had been done and a fair amount of re-work was required. Subsequently AIE agreed to 
replace the contractor or look to make a cash settlement for work so Mr W could appoint a 
contractor. To that end a new scope was produced by AIE in February 2022. Ive seen no 
good reason why it took so long for a re-visit and re-scope to be arranged. The property had 
been declared dry by the beginning of September 2021 and it was then that poor work was 
done. With resolutions for progressing beyond that, as Ive said, not being put forward until 
February 2022. Thats a six-month delay here.
The visit and new scope were meant to allow the claim to move on from the poor work 
issues identified in October 2021. I note that the scope was produced within good time 
following the meeting and the loss adjuster had arranged for new contractors to be on 
stand-by to start as soon as possible if this route was chosen. Between the new scope 
being shared in February 2022 and AIE issuing another complaint response on 8 April 2022, 
I dont think it caused any delays in regard to agreeing repairs. Emails provided by Mr W 
show that the loss adjuster was waiting on an answer from Mr W regarding how to progress 
the claim and further contact from Mr W in reply was only received on 18 April 2022.
In terms of the scope produced in February 2022, Ive not seen any detail or arguments from 
around the time it was produced that makes me think it was unfair or unreasonable. I think 
its fair to say that both parties have re-visited what is needed to reinstate the property since 
8 April 2021. But those proposals and concerns arent part of this complaint.
Mr W said it is not unreasonable, given the delays and previous poor work, for AIE to be 
required to allow a contractor chosen by him/Mr B to be appointed. He said three quotes 
could be obtained for AIE to pick one from.
The delay (until February 2022) came from AIE not moving quickly enough to determine 
what was needed to correct the poor work which had been identified in 2021 and accepted 
by it in a meeting in October 2021. So Mr W choosing contractors wont necessarily guard 
against further delay  although I trust there wont be any. I note Mr Ws concern about 
previous poor work and the worry that this might occur again. But AIE accepted poor work 
was done by its contractor and removed them from the job, agreeing to review what was 
needed to reinstate the property with the appointment of new contractors. That was a 
reasonable resolution to the problem. To be clear, my assessment of what has happened 
here only goes up to 8 April 2022. Im aware that the claim has moved on since then and it 
may well be that further issues or causes for concern for the parties have arisen. But Im not 
considering any of that.  Delay and compensation
AIE, in the letters sent by its adjusters, accepts the claim has been delayed by it. And Ive 
found that there was a period of six months of delay between September 2021 and 
February 2022. AIE will need to bear that in mind as it continues to assess and settle Mr Bs 
claim. Mr B was living somewhere other than his home during all of that time and I dont 
doubt that would have been very upsetting for him. Im also mindful of the great worry hed 
have been caused, particularly in his personal circumstances, when a summons for council 
tax arrears was received. For that I think a total of £1,000 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due. If £250 has already been paid to Mr B then it will only now have to pay him 
£750.
I note that AIE has accepted and referenced delays in communicating with Mr W and in 
making some reimbursements to Mr W. Those delays are clearly regrettable. But I can only 
award compensation for upset any failure by AIE caused to Mr B.
AIE said it agreed to pay the compensation. Mr W did not comment on my findings in this 
respect, or my suggested award. So Ill say nothing more about this. 
Legal costs
Its unfortunate that legal costs of nearly £40,000 have been accrued. But I note that Mr W, 
as an individual, along with another, were appointed as deputies by the court to handle 
Mr Bs affairs. The court did not appoint a solicitors firm in that respect. So Mr B, as any 
other policyholder, albeit represented by Mr W, was free to claim and complain. It is not this 
services usual practice to award legal costs. I havent seen anything that makes me think it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require AIE to pay such here.
Mr W felt I had failed to account for the fact that Mr Bs health meant a deputy was required 
to handle his financial affairs  which, he said, naturally resulted in legal costs being 
incurred. But also that I was likely not aware that that the court had agreed to the deputies 
appointing the solicitors firm to assist with the dispute. Mr W said the level of costs incurred 
here was a direct result of AIEs mishandling of the claim. He asked I revisit my decision to 
not award legal costs.
I did not fail to account for the fact that Mr B is represented in his financial affairs by court 
appointed deputies. And I note the copy of the court order, now provided, wherein the court 
responsible for appointing the deputies, authorises them to instruct the solicitors firm (of 
which they are partners) to advise on the unresolved flood claim. The order agrees to 
payments to the firm coming from the estate of Mr B. With settlements to be approved by a 
litigation friend.
I appreciate that this order means that Mr Bs finances will be affected by the involvement of 
the solicitors firm  that the court found this appropriate in the circumstances relevant to its 
consideration of such. But I have to think about what is fair and reasonable here in the 
complaint between Mr B and AIE. This service sees complaints regularly from eligible 
complainants who, for a variety of reasons, have to be represented by another, in both their 
claim and complaint. Simply because someone needs representation does not necessarily 
mean legal costs will have to be incurred  nor does it make the insurer reasonably liable for 
covering such. AIEs policy, which Mr W agreed was suitable for Mr Bs needs, does not 
cover paying legal costs incurred for resolving claims. And, in respect of what became the 
disputed claim, Mr W, as is any individual representing someone else, was free to make a 
complaint to AIE and then this service. Neither of which require legal advice to be obtained 
or legal services or representation to be given. Its not for me to say why, in the light of that, 
the court found it appropriate to agree representation was required and payable for by Mr Bs estate. But the courts decision in that respect does not compel me to extend that finding to 
make AIE liable for any costs incurred, the settlement for which the litigation friend may 
approve. Mr W was free to handle Mr Bs claim and complaint as any individual would be, 
and similarly it was his choice to instead employ the services of the firm (of which he is 
partner) to do so, which resulted in costs incurring. Im not persuaded, in the circumstances, 
its fair or reasonable to make AIE liable for these costs. 
Having considered the parties responses to my provisional decision
I note that AIE didnt really object to anything Id said. Ive considered, as set out and 
responded to above, Mr Ws concerns about my findings. But Ive found that nothing said 
has changed my views on this complaint. As such, my provisional findings, along with my 
further comments above, are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Mr W will likely be aware that if he remains unhappy with my decision, overall, he is not 
bound to accept it. But that if he should be happy with some of it, he cant accept it only in 
part. Also that if the decision is accepted, within the deadline given, its unlikely he will be 
able to go to court to make further challenge on any disputed parts or to request additional 
payments are made. If Mr W is unsure about any of this, he may like to seek legal advice 
before deciding whether or not to accept my decision. 
  
Putting things right
I require AIE to:
As part of the claim, investigate and consider what exterior, hardstanding areas and 
structures have been damaged by the flood and consider what is needed to reinstate 
them, adding such into the schedule of repair.  
Pay Mr B a total of £1,000 compensation, if £250 has already been paid, then only £750 
will now need to be paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman