DRN-2673023
The complaint
Miss S says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan.
What happened
In 2003 Miss S took out a mortgage with Halifax. Around the same time, she took out a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The TMPP included payment protection insurance (PPI) 
and critical illness cover (CIC). Miss S applied for the mortgage and the TMPP at a meeting 
in a branch of the bank.
The PPI would have paid Miss Ss monthly mortgage payments if shed made a successful 
claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. The CIC would have paid Miss S a lump sum 
if shed been diagnosed with one of a number of specified medical conditions. Miss S paid a 
monthly premium for the plan.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, he didnt think 
that the PPI element of the TMPP had been mis-sold. But he didnt think the particular type 
of critical illness cover included in the plan was suitable for Miss S.
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely, 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Miss S that she had a choice about taking out the 
TMPP. Due to the time that's passed, Halifax no longer has copies of all the documents 
that Miss S signed when she took out the mortgage and TMPP. I don't think that's 
surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place so many years ago.
Miss S says she was told that the TMPP was part of the mortgage, due to the amount 
that she was borrowing, her age and the fact that she lived on her own. She says she 
wasnt told that the TMPP was optional. 
I dont doubt that Miss S has given us her honest recollection. But Ive borne in mind that 
the sale took place many years ago. Ive taken into account what we know about how 
Halifax sold these policies around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. 
And, on balance, I'm satisfied that the paperwork would have made it clear that the PPI 
was optional, and Miss S would have been asked which elements of the TMPP she 
wanted to take, after discussion with Halifax. And I think shed have been asked for her 
consent to the cover.
So with the limited information I have available to me, I think its most likely that Miss S 
knew the TMPP was optional, and that she agreed to buy it, knowing she had a choice. 
But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss S. This means it had a responsibility to check that 
it was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what I've seen 
of her circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Miss S has told us shed have been entitled to generous sick pay 
from her employer. But if shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident or 
sickness, it would have paid her monthly mortgage payments for up to 24 months. From 
what shed told us, thats considerably longer than Miss S could have been sure shed 
receive full sick pay for. And the policy would have paid the same level of benefit if shed 
made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Miss S received from her employer. So she could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Miss S has told us she also had significant savings. But Ive borne in mind that she 
chose to keep hold of her savings, rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. And having 
the PPI would have allowed her to continue to protect her savings, or to use them to pay 
for other things if shed been off sick for an extended time, or if shed lost her job.
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Miss Ss property, and the consequences of falling behind with 
her mortgage payments could have been serious. So taking everything into account, 
I think the PPI could have been useful for Miss S.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from what shes told 
us about her circumstances at the time, its unlikely Miss S would have been affected by 
any of these. The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me 
think that Miss S couldnt afford it. So Im not convinced that better information about the 
policy would have put Miss S off taking it out. And I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S. But Halifax 
has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about that. Because Halifax didnt tell her, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.Miss S has mentioned that she already had critical illness cover when she took out the 
TMPP. But it didnt cover the whole term of the mortgage. So I dont think it meant that it was 
unreasonable to include CIC in the TMPP. Ive also borne in mind that the lump sum 
payable under the CIC was significantly less than the total amount of Miss Ss mortgage. 
And I think its most likely that the CIC was included in the plan after a discussion with 
Miss S about the amount of critical illness cover she wished to have.
But Halifax accepts that when it sold Miss S the CIC, it should have been a decreasing term 
assurance, instead of a level term assurance. This is because her outstanding mortgage 
debt was being gradually reduced  so her payments for CIC cover should have reflected 
this over time too. Sometimes, we find that decreasing term assurance would have cost 
more than level term assurance. But Halifax has shown that decreasing term assurance 
would have been cheaper in Miss Ss case. So its offered to refund the difference between 
what she actually paid and what she would have paid, with interest on the refund. And I think 
this is a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Halifax has to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
That means Halifax should pay back to Miss S the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax should also 
pay Miss S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
Halifax should also pay put Miss S in the position shed be in now if shed taken out 
decreasing term cover rather than level term cover. So Halifax should:
Pay Miss S the difference between the amount she paid each month for the CIC element 
of the plan and the amount she should have paid.
Add 8%* simple interest to each overpayment from when she paid it until she gets it 
back. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss S can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But if it hasnt done so already, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should pay back to 
Miss S the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium 
and refund the difference between the cost of the level term assurance that Miss S took, and 
the cost of a comparable decreasing term assurance, in each case plus simple interest, as it 
has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman