DRN-1985112
The complaint
Mr K complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let him 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr K acquired a new car costing £ 33,701 funded by a deposit of £5,300 and 
the balance with a hire purchase agreement. Mr K has explained that one of the reasons he 
chose the car was the popping and banging sound made by the exhaust.
He took the car back to the dealer and it identified a stored fault which was addressed by 
replacing an exhaust flap. Mr K says the mechanic agreed the sound wasnt as it had been 
previously and suggested it would reappear when the new part settled in. Mr K says the 
popping and banging sound hasnt returned and this has spoiled his driving experience.
VFS rejected his complaint and so Mr K brought the matter to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He reviewed the videos 
submitted by Mr K and the job card for the repair work. He concluded that the car had had 
an identifiable fault which had been repaired and while the lack of the popping sound may be 
frustrating this didnt mean it was faulty.
He noted that the model had a Petrol Particulate Filter (PPF) fitted whereas those 
manufactured before 2019 didnt. He said a PPF is a device fitted to the exhaust system of 
modern petrol vehicles to reduce emissions and to meet European emission standards. It 
does this by trapping soot from the exhaust gasses while letting the gasses flow through the 
system.
The most notable issue with the sound of new cars fitted with a PPF is it heavily mutes the 
exhaust noises. This means that high performance vehicles such as the one acquired by Mr 
K do not sound like the older models. Therefore, he didnt think it appropriate to recommend 
VFS retrofit an old style exhaust.
Mr K didnt agree and said the sound had disappeared from the car and that meant it had 
developed a fault which had not been fixed.  The dealer had admitted there was fault which it 
had tried to repair, but the popping noise had not returned, despite the mechanic saying it 
would do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate Mr Ks disappointment at the lack of a popping sound, but I dont believe I 
can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
Prior to 2019 the car Mr K acquired was known for the exhaust sound. However, emissions 
regulations meant that the manufacturer had to make alterations and I gather the model was 
unavailable for a period while various changes were made. I understand that one of the 
effects of the necessary changes was to the sound emitted by the exhaust.
I believe that the new model did make a popping sound on occasions, but it wasnt as it had 
been on the old model. As such I am not persuaded that the popping sound was guaranteed 
or that the car was advertised to make the noise which Mr K is seeking. I have noted he has 
told us the car he test drove made the sound, but I dont know if that was an old or new 
model. Even if it was the new model I cannot say this was a specified feature and as I 
understand it the new one does make the occasional popping sound.
I cannot conclude that the lack of the sound Mr K is seeking is a fault. I appreciate that he 
was told it should return as the new part bedded in and it may still do, but I appreciate that 
as of this summer it hadnt done so. But I dont believe any one guaranteed it would make 
the sound he wanted. 
Overall, he has a car which works in all respects, but it doesnt make the sound Mr K was 
expecting. I do not consider that would allow me to acceded to his request that he be 
allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman