DRN-3475216
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as G complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly closed its
business current account and recalled its Bounce Back Loan facility.
The complaint is brought on Gs behalf by its director, Mr B.
What happened
On 8 May 2020, G opened a business current account with Starling. On 11 May, the bank
wrote to Mr B to say it would be closing Gs account on 18 May. Starling explained this was
because G had used virtual currencies, which was a breach of the account terms and
conditions.
G applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) of £50,000 with Starling on 12 May. Its
application was successful, and the loan was paid into Gs current account the following day.
G intended to use the funds to make a significant purchase.
A few days later, the bank identified that it had made an error in providing the BBL as it was
closing Gs account. It wrote to G to say it would be withdrawing the loan, which it duly did. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He believed Starling had breached its own terms and
conditions by withdrawing the BBL funds from Gs account and then closing it shortly after.
Starling didnt uphold the complaint initially as it said its actions were reasonable in light of
the breach of the terms and conditions of the account. However, after the complaint was
referred to us, Starling changed its decision and upheld the complaint in part. It said that the
currency transactions that had prompted its decision related to a different entity (albeit
another company that was owned by Mr B).
The bank accepted that it shouldnt have closed Gs account and offered £200 compensation
for the inconvenience this had caused. However, Starling said its decision regarding the BBL 
remained unchanged, as on review it didnt think that G had been trading prior to 1 March 
2020  and therefore G hadnt met the BBL eligibility criteria.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part, as he thought Starling
should increase the compensation payment to £400 in light of the inconvenience G had been 
caused by its account being closed. But he thought Starling had reasonably decided that G 
wasnt eligible for the loan, and so its withdrawal was legitimate.
Starling agreed with the investigators view. Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman
to look into Gs complaint. He doesnt believe the compensation is enough to cover the loss
of opportunity caused by the banks actions  in particular the withdrawal of the BBL funds,
which he still thinks was a breach of Starlings terms and conditions. So the case has been
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a 
different conclusion to our investigator. 
Its not in dispute by either party that Starling made an error in closing Gs business 
account. The bank has explained its reasons for this, apologised and offered to open 
a new account for G.
When Starling incorrectly closed Gs business account, it also exercised an event of 
default
on Gs BBL on the basis that the application was outside of the banks risk appetite. 
The terms of the BBL agreement say that Starling can recall the funds in the event of 
a default. However, as the bank had made an error when deciding to close Gs 
account, I dont think it shouldve have cancelled Gs BBL agreement and recalled 
the funds for this reason. The bank has acknowledged its error in this respect but has 
still declined to reinstate the BBL to G - as it doesnt think the company was eligible 
for the loan in the first place. I think this decision is reasonable - Ill explain why.
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL. This included the 
requirement to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020, and that the 
amount borrowed be no more than 25% of their annual turnover. In addition to these 
criteria, there were checks that had to be made - with some discretion for lenders to 
have the final say as to whether to approve the loan.
In light of what happened, Starling reviewed Gs entitlement to the BBL. It had 
approved the application on the basis of Gs self-declaration that it was trading prior 
to 1 March 2020 and had an annual turnover of £200,000. But on review, it 
concluded that G wasnt eligible as the company hadnt been trading prior to 1 March 
2020 and couldnt verify the £200,000 annual turnover figure Mr B had declared on 
Gs application was accurate.
I think Starlings position was reasonable. Mr B says that the turnover figure he 
provided was an estimate. I acknowledge that such estimates could be used for 
businesses established after 1 January 2019  as G was. However, lenders werent 
obligated to accept any figures provided. When Starling looked at Gs account 
history, there was no evidence to show it was trading and the personal account 
statements Mr B provided to show this, only displayed two transactions for G totalling 
£1,500  so even if I accept that G was trading at the requisite time, I think Starling 
reasonably concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support the turnover 
figure Mr B had declared.
Mr B is unhappy that Starling withdrew the BBL having decided G was ineligible after 
the loan had been approved. But lenders were entitled to keep things under review 
even after a loan was granted and, ultimately, wouldnt be expected to provide 
facilities to applicants that were considered ineligible. So I dont think Starling did 
anything wrong in reviewing Gs eligibility after the BBL had been granted, albeit 
prompted to do so by its own error.
The BBL agreement says that if the bank isnt satisfied a borrower meets the 
Scheme eligibility criteria within a month of the agreement being signed, it can 
terminate the agreement immediately. I think that this was an appropriate course of 
action in the circumstances here.
However, I do think Starling made some errors when dealing with the account 
closure and granting the BBL initially. I say this because, when G applied for the BBL initially, Mr B told the bank that G was a start-up business, didnt have a bank 
account and couldnt provide any invoices or sales receipts. So I think at this point 
the bank should have either declined Gs application or at least asked for further 
information to see if G met the Scheme eligibility criteria (which would ultimately have 
led it to decline the application, for the reasons Ive explained above).
Instead, Starling made a further error when deciding that G had breached the 
account terms and conditions on 11 May - as it still allowed G to make a BBL 
application on 12 May. It then approved the application and provided the loan  when 
for the reasons above  it should not have done.
Its clear the banks closure of the business account and initial agreement of the loan 
has caused G inconvenience. Although the account was closed in error, I dont think 
this had much of an impact on G because there was little money held in the account 
and it wasnt really being used at that point so there were no missed direct debits or 
payments. However, Mr B has explained that G had already committed to using the 
BBL funds for a significant purchase once the application was agreed and the money 
was in its account  so when the funds were withdrawn this was very problematic for 
G.
Mr B has told the service that G incurred professional costs of $472.50 when he 
believed Starling had breached the terms and conditions of the loan  which hes 
provided copies of invoices for. I dont think G would have incurred these costs if the 
bank had explained its actions for recalling the loan more clearly. Therefore I think 
that the bank should reimburse G for them.
I can also see that Mr B has spent time dealing with the issues caused by Starlings 
actions - both with the bank directly and the external parties involved. So to put 
things right, I agree with our investigators opinion that the bank should increase the 
amount of compensation to a total of £400 to address the inconvenience caused.
I invited Mr B and Starling to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Starling accepted the decision  albeit it can only 
refund the costs in sterling equivalent  which Mr B has confirmed is satisfactory. 
Mr B didnt agree. He maintained that G was eligible under the BBL rules and that Starling 
hadnt reviewed this properly when reaching its conclusion. He also didnt accept that 
Starling had the contractual right to recall the loan in the manner Id described.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Ive considered Mr Bs further comments as to why he still believes that G was entitled to a 
loan under the Scheme rules, but he hasnt said or provided anything that leads me to a 
different view of this. I still think Starling reasonably determined that G wasnt eligible for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision. 
I acknowledge Mr B feels Starling should have asked him for supporting documentation if it 
was concerned about the companys eligibility. But the bank isnt obligated to do this. 
Starling has told us that when it reviewed the information Mr B had provided prior to the bank 
account being opened, this conflicted with what was declared on the BBL application. So 
Starling was satisfied a misrepresentation had taken place and chose not to reinstate the BBL it had recalled. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr B has said he doesnt agree with my interpretation of clause three of the BBL agreement 
when its reviewed with the context of clause four  which he believes is contradictory. 
Clause 3 says: 
3.1. Starlings obligation to provide the Loan is subject to the following conditions 
precedent:
3.1.1. the representations and warranties set out in Clause 12 (Representations and 
Warranties) are true and correct and will be true and correct immediately after 
Starling has made the Loan;
3.1.2. no Event of Default or Potential Event of Default is continuing or would result 
from the Borrower receiving the Loan;
3.1.3. the Borrower satisfies the eligibility requirements of the BBLS and evidences 
such to Starlings satisfaction; and
3.1.4. the Borrower completes in the form provided and duly signs, dates, and returns 
to Starling the BBLS Application Form, all to Starlings satisfaction.
3.2. If the conditions in this Clause 3 (Conditions Precedent) have not been satisfied 
by the date falling one calendar month from the Effective Date, this Agreement will 
automatically terminate on such date and such termination shall be without prejudice 
to the accrued rights or remedies of Starling.
I said in short, that this meant Starling could terminate the loan agreement immediately 
within one month of it being signed if it wasnt satisfied that G met the eligibility criteria. Mr B 
doesnt agree with this, as he thinks that this power could only be exercised before the loan 
funds were credited, and before the agreement was signed or requisite documentation 
having been provided. Clause four of the agreement says that Starling will credit the loan 
once it determines that the clause three conditions precedent are satisfied  so Mr B says 
that, with Starling having credited the loan to Gs account, it no longer had the power to 
terminate or withhold the loan in the manner it did.
I dont agree with Mr Bs interpretation of these conditions. Although clause four refers to 
conditions which needed to be met prior to the loan being received, it also says the 
conditions should be met on a continuing basis  not just a single point in time  such as 
upon drawdown. 
However, even if I were to accept Mr Bs interpretation of these clauses, Starling had the 
power to cancel the agreement  at any point  in certain circumstances. This included 
where any information given by the borrower proves to have been incorrect or misleading. 
As I think Starling reasonably concluded that the turnover figure provided in Gs application 
wasnt accurate, it follows that I think it had the right to exercise an event of default and 
cancel the agreement.
Its not in dispute that Starling made a mistake when it incorrectly closed Gs business 
account, before later deciding that G wasnt eligible and calling an event of default. However, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Starling to maintain its decision not to provide the BBL 
when it reviewed the information G had declared and decided it didnt meet the eligibility 
criteria. So my final decision  and the compensation Im requiring Starling to pay in order to 
put things right - remains the same as that of my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Starling Bank Limited to do 
the following:
Refund the sterling equivalent of $472.50 for the professional costs incurred by G; 
and
Pay G £400 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman