DRN-3565709
The complaint
Mr M complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, decision to review and 
subsequently close his account.
What happened
In February 2020, Halifax blocked Mr Ms account. Mr M said this caused him stress and 
anxiety and he wasnt able to make payments or deposits. He says he lost out on around 
£4,200 as he wasnt able to transfer money to his brokerage account. Mr M also said this 
had a significant impact on his wife due to her illness.
Once Halifax completed their review, they gave Mr M full access to his account. In 
September 2020, Halifax made the commercial decision to close Mr Ms account and 
provided him with 65 days notice. Halifax also added an internal marker to Mr Ms profile to 
prevent him from opening an account within the Lloyds Banking Group. 
Mr M brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it  despite not knowing 
the reasons for the review, she thought Halifax were entitled to block and close the account; 
but thought they should pay Mr M £200 compensation due to the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Our investigator didnt agree Halifax should compensate Mr M for the £4,200 he 
said he lost out on, because she hadnt seen enough evidence that the Halifax account was 
the only money Mr M had access to.
Halifax agreed to pay the £200 compensation, but Mr M remained unhappy. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Halifax should pay compensation to Mr M to put things right. Ive 
explained further below.
Halifax are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Mr Ms account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Halifaxs actions were appropriate in the circumstances, 
Id need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions they took during 
the review. Halifax hasnt shared that level of detail with our service, so I cant confidently 
say their actions were reasonable. 
Following their review, Halifax gave Mr M full access to his account. In September 2020, 
Halifax decided to end their relationship with Mr M and gave him 65 days notice. Banks 
sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of 
reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer  only to meet the 
account closure terms and conditions. Just the same as if Mr M decided to stop banking with 
Halifax, he wouldnt have to explain why. Halifax can only close accounts in certain 
circumstances and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Halifax have relied 
on and complied with the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ms account and I do not 
think they acted unfairly and unreasonably. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact this overall situation had on Mr M. His account was 
blocked, and therefore he was unable to make payments or use his account in any way. I 
dont doubt this would have been inconvenient for Mr M, but I cant fairly uphold his 
complaint in the way hed like me to. I appreciate Mr M says he lost out on around £4,200 
because he couldnt pay money into his brokerage account. But like our investigator, I 
havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the money in the Halifax account was 
the only money Mr M had access to  and therefore I cant reasonably hold Halifax 
responsible for any losses he may have incurred through his brokerage account. 
Ive also considered the internal marker recorded against Mr M. But Halifax is part of the 
Lloyds Banking Group and therefore are entitled to choose who they, as a collective, want as 
their customer. Theyve made the decision to end the banking relationship with Mr M, gave 
appropriate notice to do so, and complied with the terms and conditions. 
Im really sorry to hear of the impact this situation had on Mr Ms wife. But as she wasnt 
Halifaxs customer in the circumstances of this complaint, I cant reasonably consider the 
impact. Ive no doubt this added to Mr Ms stress, but I cant consider the impact it had on his 
wife as an individual.
Putting things right
Overall, I recognise the distress this situation had on Mr M and I havent seen enough to 
satisfy me that Halifaxs actions whilst the account was blocked were wholly appropriate. So, 
I think a compensation payment of £200 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax, should pay Mr M £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman