DRN-2930127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy because Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not reimburse them 
money Mr L transferred to a fraudster after falling victim to an authorised push payment 
(APP) scam.
What happened
On 17 February 2020 Mr L was contacted by a fraudster pretending to be from Amazon 
which Mr L says his wife held an account with and that he had used. Mr L was told that a 
fraudster had attempted to create an Amazon account in his name. And because it wasnt 
Mr L who had created the Amazon account, Mr L would need to be transferred to the 
National Crime Agency (NCA) as the fraudster was apparently using his details. Mr L was 
then passed through to what he believed was the NCA who told Mr L that his account with 
Santander was at risk. Mr L was told that someone had tried to hack into his account three 
times. 
The fraudster persuaded Mr L that he could help fight cybercrime and catch this person by 
going into branch and making a transfer. The fraudster sent Mr L correspondence purporting 
to be from Santander Special Fraud Investigation Department working in conjunction with 
the NCA advising that his account had been frozen, and correspondence from the NCA 
thanking him for participating and advising Mr L that his money was safe.  
During the conversation the fraudster managed to obtain information from Mr L about how 
much he had in his account and persuaded Mr L to make a transfer of £15,000. The 
fraudster coached Mr L as to what he may say if asked about the transfer. Mr L said he 
could say that it was for his step-daughter and was to pay off her mortgage. 
Mr L went into branch on 17 February 2020 and made a £15,000 transfer to the account 
details the fraudster had provided him.
Santander say that the transfer flagged as unusual and because of this it took Mr L into a 
private room within branch and questioned him about it. Satisfied with the answers it 
received it allowed the transfer to go through.
After the transfer was processed it was flagged again by Santanders internal systems  as a 
result Mr L had to call Santander about it. The adviser explained why the transfer had been 
flagged on its systems and that due to a large increase in scams it wanted to make sure 
everything was ok. The adviser then talked to Mr L about the transfer and based on Mr Ls 
answers it was satisfied that the transfer was genuine and processed it.
The following day Mr L, at the request of the fraudster, tried to make a further £9,000 
transfer  this time to his sister for home improvements. Prior to this second transfer, the 
beneficiary bank (the bank used by the fraudster) had contacted Santander alerting it to its 
concerns about the account (unfortunately nearly all of the money had already left the 
beneficiary banks account by this point). Given the activity the day before and the 
information Santander had received, it was concerned that Mr L was at risk of financial harm 
and stepped in. It was uncovered that Mr L had fallen victim to a scam and the £9,000 and 
the transfer was stopped.
A fraud claim was raised in relation the £15,000 transfer Mr L had made on 17 February 
2020. Santander investigated the matter and didnt consider it should be held responsible for 
the loss on the account. It considered the transfer had flagged on its systems and because 
of this it questioned Mr L about it  and based on Mr Ls answers it was satisfied the transfer 
was genuine.
It appears there was £14.76 of the £15,000 remaining in the beneficiary bank account which 
was sent back to Mr L on 13 March 2020.
Unhappy, Mr L referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. They 
accepted that Santander questioned Mr L about the transfer but felt more probing questions 
could have been asked as Santander ought to have been aware that consumers are often 
provided with cover stories. They considered that had more probing, open-ended questions 
been put to Mr L, then it was unlikely he would have been able to answer them convincingly. 
They also considered that Santander could have gone into greater detail when explaining 
how the type of scams work to Mr L. And had it done, they considered it would have made a 
difference in this instance and would have broken the spell Mr L was under.
The investigator recommended that Santander refund the amount Mr L lost (minus any 
recovered amount) and pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the transaction 
was made until the date of settlement. 
Santander disagreed. It considered the interaction it had with Mr L, first in branch and then 
latterly over the phone, was sufficient. And based on the answers it received  considered 
there was nothing to suggest Mr L was risk of financial harm.
Santanders response didnt change the investigators opinion, and as the matter hadnt been 
resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision, as the information presented to 
me led me to reach a different outcome to that of our investigator.
I would like to add at this point that Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances.
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that: 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; orwhere in all the circumstances, the customer made the transfer without a reasonable 
basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to 
pay, the transfer was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the person or 
business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
Given the above, Santander considered both exceptions apply in this case. In short it 
considered that it had identified the transfer as potentially fraudulent and provided Mr L with 
an effective warning when he was in branch and when it had a further subsequent 
conversation with him over the phone. 
Santander also considered that Mr L made the transfer without a reasonable basis for belief 
as Mr L hadnt carried out any checks to ensure the person or business with whom he 
transacted with were legitimate.
I am also mindful that when Mr L made the transfer, Santander should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the transfer channel used, have taken additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Taking the above into account, I issued my provisional decision on 16 July 2021 setting out 
my thoughts. In short, I considered the responsibility for the loss should be shared equally 
between the parties. I found Mr L didnt meet the requisite level of care as required under the 
Code, but I was also persuaded Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have done more to 
protect Mr L from harm. To put things right, I considered that Santander should refund 
Mr and Mrs L £7,500 lost to the scam and pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date 
their claim was declined under the Code until the date of settlement.
Both parties had until 15 August 2021 in which to respond to my provisional decision and 
providing any more comments and evidence they wished for me to consider. Mr and Mrs L 
confirmed they had received my provisional decision but didnt provide me with anything 
further that they wished for me to consider. Santander didnt respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has given me anything else to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ill confirm my findings below:
I am satisfied that under the terms of the CRM Code, Santander should refund 50% of the 
money Mr L lost. I think Santander has established that Mr L made the transfer without a 
reasonable basis for believing the person or business with whom he transacted was 
legitimate. But I dont think Santander did enough to protect Mr L from financial harm from 
fraud. As a result I think the responsibility for the loss should be shared and Ill explain why.Did Mr L have a reasonable basis of belief when making the transfer?
Mr L was contacted by someone purporting to be from Amazon. Mr L has said that he no 
longer held an Amazon account but that his wife did. Upon the fraudster finding out Mr L 
didnt have an Amazon account he was told that someone was trying to set up an account in 
his name. For this reason, it appears the fraudster passed Mr L to someone claiming to be 
from the NCA, which in turn led to the NCA advising that someone was trying to hack his 
Santander account.
Given the events Ive described above, I think its arguable Mr L ought to have asked some 
questions of the caller or undertaken some checks to check the caller was legitimate. I say 
this because Mr L didnt have an account with Amazon and I also think its unusual that a 
company such as Amazon would transfer a call to someone working for the NCA, who then 
quickly referred to his bank account being at risk also. 
Mr L didnt check to see if either the call from Amazon or the NCA was genuine. Overall, I 
think the circumstances ought reasonably to have raised some suspicion on Mr Ls part 
leading him to question the authenticity of it all.
I do appreciate that Mr L received email communication allegedly from the NCA and 
Santanders Special Fraud Investigation Department which Mr L feels added to the 
authenticity of the scam. But having reviewed the correspondence  I am satisfied the 
correspondence should have given Mr L greater cause for concern.
The correspondence from the NCA is poorly written with lots of grammatical errors and 
sentences that would not be in keeping with a professional organisation. Ive highlighted one 
paragraph as example:
The correspondence from Santander also has noticeable errors in it and doesnt look 
professional. Given that Im satisfied Mr L should reasonably have been aware of the 
possibility that something might not be quite right following the initial calls  I think the written 
communication was important and should have further alerted Mr L to the possibility that 
things were not as they seemed, so much so that I think he ought to have been genuinely 
concerned. 
I do appreciate Mr L may have considered it was legitimate at the time, but for the reasons 
Ive explained, I think Mr L ought to have had some concerns about the legitimacy and in 
turn ought to have undertaken some checks prior to making the transfer. As Mr L didnt do 
so, Im not satisfied he had, or ought reasonably to have had, a reasonable basis for 
believing the people with who he was transacting with were legitimate. 
So for the reasons given above I think Santander has established that one of the permitted 
exceptions under the Code applies and in turn that Mr L didnt meet the requisite level of 
care. But this doesnt automatically mean Mr L shouldnt be reimbursed any of the money he 
lost  I need to go on and decide whether Santander met the standards required of it under 
the Code.
Should Santander have done more to protect Mr L from financial harm from fraud?
Under the CRM Code, where Santander identifies an APP scam risk, it should take 
reasonable steps to provide their customer with an effective warning. And outside of the 
Code, Santander should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for 
unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of 
fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the transfer channel 
used, have taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, 
or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Here Santander says it provided effective warnings. It is clear warnings were provided, and 
that a conversation between Mr L and Santander took place prior to making the payments, 
so Ive thought about whether Santander did enough or whether it shouldve done more. 
Santander has said Mr L ignored an effective warning. But in this case, Im not satisfied that 
the requirements of the effective warning exception were met because Im not persuaded 
Santander provided Mr L with an effective warning. Ill explain why. 
The warning Mr L was provided in branch
Mr L went into branch to make the transfer. It seems Santander identified the request as 
unusual and because of this took Mr L aside into a private room to discuss it in more detail. 
Santander has provided me with the scam warnings script that it says was followed when 
customers made a payment / transfer in branch.
 
The opening question states:
Has anyone told you that your account is at risk or asked you to move your money 
to a safe account?
In my view, the question attempts to address the type of APP scam risk Mr L was falling 
victim to at the time (an impersonation scam) and so it seems to me Santander recognised 
there was a risk Mr L might be at risk of falling victim to this type of scam. Having thought 
about the common features of this type of scam, I dont think Santander did enough to 
overcome, or attempt to overcome, them in its warning.
The adviser went on to establish the reason for the transfer. And the adviser was given 
various questions to ask the customer depending on the reason given for the payment / 
transfer. Mr Ls cover story was that the purpose for the transfer was sending money to his 
step-daughter to pay off her mortgage. 
In this instance, as Mr L was paying a family member the adviser, as per the scam script, 
asked: 
How did you receive their bank details?
As Mr L (as a result of the cover story devised with the fraudster) confirmed he had received 
the beneficiary details in person, the adviser then checked whether Mr L had been put under 
pressure or told what to say.So the warning / questions starts to focus on whether Mr L is possibly falling victim to an 
email intercept or invoice scam, but also attempts to establish whether Mr L had been put 
under pressure or told what to say, presumably to find out whether he was being coached or 
providing a cover story.
Im not persuaded the questions Santander asked were likely be effective when it comes to 
this type of scam.  A customer could simply answer no or give a one-word answer without 
recognising the significance of the questions theyd been asked as they hadnt been 
provided with any context. Santander ought to recognise such closed questions arent likely 
to penetrate the trust the fraudster had established with their customer given its a common 
feature of impersonation scams that customers are given cover stories and asked to lie to 
their bank, often on the pretence theyre helping to catch a corrupt employee. 
Overall, in my view, the questions asked seem more process driven rather than attempt to 
provide an effective warning about the potential scam Mr L was at risk of. For example, Im 
not satisfied the warning brings to life what the scam would actually look and feel like, 
or explain how fraudsters carry out or go about this type of scam. In short, it fails to get 
across in a clear and impactful way what it would look like for a customer who hasnt 
recognised the type of scam they may be falling victim to.
Customers who have fallen victim to an impersonation scam, are at the time of making a 
transfer, under the spell of the fraudster. Santander are aware of the common features of 
this type of scam, so ought to recognise those affected by this type of scam are given cover 
stories and additional probing is often required  which didnt happen enough here. Overall, 
Im not satisfied the warnings Santander provided, including the questions it asked, were 
sufficiently impactful to positively affect a customers decision-making and reduce the 
likelihood of the scam succeeding. 
An effective warning should also include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect 
themselves from APP scams and they should enable customers to understand what
actions they need to take to address the risk of APP fraud and also explain the 
consequences of not doing so. Here, the warning / questions Santander provided / asked, 
didnt include enough information about the type of scam or the appropriate action a 
customer can take to address the risk of APP fraud. 
Im also mindful that in order for the warning to meet the Codes definition of an effective 
warning, as explained above, it should set out the consequences of not taking the suggested 
steps in the warning, so Im not satisfied its warning met the requisite criteria here either.
The warning Mr L was provided with over the phone
As Santander considered Mr L had answered the questions in branch genuinely and didnt 
have cause for concern the transfer was processed. However it was flagged by Santanders 
internal systems again and this led to Mr L having to speak with Santander over the phone in 
order to get the transfer cleared and processed.
So Santander had a further opportunity to question Mr L about the transfer. Ive listened to 
the call recording, and again I think insufficient warnings and questioning take place.Santander do set out that it has seen an increase in scams and that it is just to make sure 
that everything is ok with the transfer and that Mr L isnt being coerced into making the 
transfer. As with the discussion in branch, the adviser focuses on the reason for the transfer 
and is satisfied with the reason Mr L gives. Again, an explanation around what a 
impersonation scam typically looks like wasnt given. Santander do establish the reason for 
the transfer but accept Mr Ls explanation that it was for his step daughter and was for her 
mortgage. 
I appreciate that Santander do, later on in the call, ask Mr L whether someone has contacted 
him claiming to be from a bank, police or anybody else and has asked him to move money 
or been told what to say. But again, it is a closed question which Mr L answered no to. The 
warning doesnt sufficiently bring to life what these scams look like, the questions were 
closed, and crucially a key feature of this type of scam wasnt covered  i.e. being asked to 
assist a fraud investigation  which Santander ought to have been aware of. It is vitally 
important to set out the common features of the APP scam risk that is identified  which in 
this case Santander had identified as a possible impersonation scam. 
Ive also carefully considered whether Santander could have done more to prevent the 
scam. And I think it could have and should have done more to prevent Mr L from being at 
risk of financial harm.
Santander could have done more around the questions it asked for reason for the transfer, 
allowing Mr L to speak about the transfer freely and in more detail. Had further discreet and 
open-ended probing questions been put to Mr L (something the Banking Protocol highlights 
in relation to branch transactions) then I think it would have had impact. As Ive said, Mr L 
had, only after discussion with the fraudster, come up with a cover story that the transfer was 
for his step-daughter and was to go towards her mortgage. There wasnt any real detail 
beyond that. Santander could have asked a number of discreet but probing questions such 
as was the transfer of £15,000 going to clear the mortgage, why had Mr L decided to make 
the transfer now or had his step-daughter asked for assistance or was it something Mr L had 
always planned on doing. Santander are aware that customers are often provided with cover 
stories  and it is through further discreet questioning that a scam can unfold.
Overall, a better explanation of what an impersonation scam actually looked like prior to 
asking Mr L a closed question on this, coupled with more discreet probing questions would 
have, in my opinion, broke the spell Mr L was under. I consider he wouldnt have been able 
to answer any further questioning convincingly and Santander would have been on notice 
that Mr L may be at risk of financial harm
So Im satisfied that as Santander didnt provide an effective warning under the Code and in 
the circumstances could have done more to prevent the scam, it should also bear some 
responsibility for the monies lost.
This means I think the responsibility for the loss should be shared equally between the 
parties  Ive found Mr L didnt meet the requisite level of care as required under the Code 
but Im also persuaded Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have done more to protect 
Mr L from harm.Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should:
Refund Mr and Mrs L £7,500 lost to the scam within 28 days of receiving notification 
of their acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date their claim was declined under the 
Code until the date of settlement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mr Ls 
complaint in part. I therefore require Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as I have set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman