DRN-2513709
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected their claim under 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty double glazing.
What happened
In 2013 Mr and Mrs G had some new windows and doors installed in their house at a cost of 
£5,975. This was funded by a fixed sum loan. In February 2020 Mr and Mrs G contacted 
Clydesdale to say they had encountered a number of problems with the windows and doors.
It said that given seven years had elapsed the onus was on Mr and Mrs G to demonstrate 
the goods had been faulty, or faults were developing at the point of sale. It said that most of 
the issues had been dealt with by the merchant and the only remining fault was with the 
patio doors.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mrs G told our investigator that the 
merchant had repaired the patio door lock mechanism in the first five years, but more 
recently the handle had broken. It was their means of exit and their house insurance was 
invalidated. She also said a relative was going to pay for replacement doors.
Our investigator said he didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show the patio doors 
had been faulty at the point of sale. Over seven years had passed before Mr and Mrs G 
brought the matter to the attention of the bank. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and said the merchant had told them the doors and windows 
were of quality and as such they should have lasted more than seven years. They also 
referred to a 10 year guarantee. They also supplied an email from a locksmith who had been 
called by the merchant to fix the patio door lock. He said that a door had dropped putting 
pressure on the lock mechanism. It was now obsolete and the only means of rectifying the 
problem would be to fit new doors. He concluded that if the doors had been fitted properly in 
the first place the issue would not have arisen.
Clydesdale said that the damage to the lock mechanism could be down to excessive force 
over the years. It said that the lock issue only seemed to have arisen in 2020 and if the 
doors had not been installed properly it would have expected to have seen failure long 
before then. It added that the locksmith wasnt qualified to comment on double glazing 
installations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs G, but I do not consider I can uphold their complaint. 
I will explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is intact and the only issue for to 
consider is whether there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
It seems that the other issues originally raised were addressed by the merchant and Mr and 
Mrs G have not pursued these with this service. As such I will concentrate my comments on 
the patio doors. As Clydesdale has pointed out the onus is on Mr and Mrs G to show that the 
goods were faulty at the point of sale or had some inherent fault. It is not disputed that in 
2020 there were faults with the patio doors, but that does not mean that they were faulty at 
the time they were installed. 
I have considered all the information provided by Mr and Mrs G to see if I can identify and 
evidence in support of their claim. They have provided a copy of a letter sent to the merchant 
on 3 September 2013. This lists a number of issues including a faulty seal on the top of the 
patio doors.
The second piece of evidence is the email from the locksmith in 2020. He says the locking 
mechanism is damaged beyond repair which he puts down to a door dropping and he 
concludes it must not have been installed properly. I accept he provides an independent 
view, but my concern is that if the doors were not hung properly at the outset then this would 
have been apparent long before 2020 and would have featured in the letter of September 
2013.
It is possible that a defect didnt manifest itself until later, but nobody has been able to 
evidence that is what has happened. It is just as possible that the mechanism has suffered 
due to wear and tear. Locks are mechanical items and can deteriorate over time. I agree that 
a degree of durability is to be expected, but that requires that the goods be properly 
maintained. It is difficult for me to say with any certainty what was the cause of the broken 
lock. If I cannot be certain then it is difficult for me to direct Clydesdale to honour the claim.
As for the matter of misrepresentation Mr and Mrs G base this on the claim by the merchant 
hat it installs quality products. That claim is fairly vague and as I have said above, I cannot 
say that the products were not fit for purpose since I do not have enough evidence to 
support that claim. Nor have I seen any evidence of a 10 year warranty. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman