DRN-2043385
The complaint
Miss F complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) didnt let her know her medical 
insurance policy had two levels of cover available and she was on the lower of the two. 
What happened
Miss F has a private medical insurance policy with AXA, which it calls the Premier range. 
Within this range there are two levels of cover, level one and level two. Miss F had premier 
six - level two cover, this has been in place since she took the insurance out in August 2010 
and it renewed annually. 
Miss F says this is usually done over the phone and says she didnt receive her renewal 
telephone call or letter prior to her renewal on 18 August 2019, but the policy did renew.
Miss F contacted AXA on 3 September 2019 to pre-approve a surgery she had been 
referred for. AXA told Miss F that the specialist that she wanted to use (Mr A) was a fee-
limited one and so it would only make a contribution towards his fees and Miss F would have 
to pay the shortfall.
It was explained to Miss F that if she chose to use another specialist that was fee-approved, 
then AXA would cover the cost in full. Miss F chose to go ahead with Mr A anyway. 
Miss F queried with AXA why if she had premier cover, she had this restriction on her policy. 
AXA explained that she had level two cover but if she had level one cover then fee-limited 
specialists costs are covered. At this point Miss F asked to be changed on to that cover so 
that her surgery costs would be covered in full. AXA explained that as the 14 day cooling off 
period had passed since the renewal of her policy  she couldnt make changes to the level 
of cover.
Miss F complained to AXA  she said that she had thought, and it had confirmed to her that 
she had the highest cover available. If she had known there was a higher level cover, she 
would have opted for it. She asked for them to cover Mr As fees in full. 
AXA didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint and maintain its position regarding the policy levels 
and its refusal to pay the shortfall in Mr As fees. But it did offer Miss F £75 compensation for 
poor service it provided in a telephone call.
Miss F remained unhappy with AXAs position and so referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint  in summary she said:
The last time that Miss F engaged with the renewal of the policy in 2018 she was 
discussing how she could reduce the premiums. And so, felt it was unlikely that Miss 
F would have been looking to upgrade her cover and pay a higher premium.
Miss F was informed by AXA that she would be responsible for the shortfall in Mr As 
fees before she went ahead with the treatment and so she had made an informed 
choice when going ahead.
Miss F disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, 
I have to tell Miss F that I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons, Ill explain.
Level of cover
Miss F has had the same policy plan in place with level two cover since 2010. The policy 
documents Miss F was sent each year clearly say:
Your Plan  Premier six NCD cover level 2 Excess 1
Miss F says she didnt receive her 2019 renewal documents, I have seen that AXA sent 
them and so cant hold them responsible for post not being received by her. Even so, as all 
of the renewal documents from each year clearly show which level of cover Miss F had and 
she has received all others I dont think it makes a difference here. And so, think the 
information was clear to Miss F about the level of cover she had.
I have also reviewed the membership handbook from when Miss F initially took the policy in 
2010  on page one under contents there is a listing  Cover level one  extended benefits. 
This clearly shows there is an extension of cover available and if read in conjunction with the 
policy documents its sent with, it is clear that Miss F has level two cover and not level one.
As Ive said above, I think it was clear that Miss F didnt have level one cover and I accept 
that she didnt realise this, but I dont think she would have increased her cover had she 
known. I say this because Miss F had used the benefit of the policy many times over the 
years without issue and the only time, she would have had any benefit from the level one 
extension is at the time that she wanted to claim for Mr As fees. Level one cover comes with 
an additional premium and when Miss F spoke to AXA before her renewal in 2018, she was 
discussing how she could reduce the premium as it was expensive. In the call they talked 
about the possibility of reducing certain benefits to help with the cost. And although Miss F 
didnt go ahead and reduce her benefit, Im not convinced she would have been inclined to 
increase the benefit as this would have generated a higher premium.
Shortfall on fees
AXA has a schedule of procedures and fees and a maximum cost for each of these. 
Specialists that agree to work within those costs are fee-approved specialists and their costs 
are fully covered under the policy. Specialists that dont agree to work within those costs are 
fee-limited specialists and their costs are only covered up to the maximum cost listed in the 
schedule.
When Miss F called to pre-authorise her treatment with Mr A, AXA explained to her that Mr A 
was a fee-limited specialist and what this meant. It also told her that it could look for fee-
approved specialists on its list if she wanted to ask to be referred to one of those instead. 
Miss F had been told by her treating doctor that she should see Mr A so I can see why she felt he would be the best person for her to see. When having treatment of any kind its 
important for the patient to feel confident in their treating specialist, so I understand Miss Fs 
choice to continue with Mr A here. However, Miss F made this choice fully aware that she 
would have to make up any shortfall in Mr As fees and so I dont think I can fairly ask AXA to 
step in here and cover those costs. 
Poor service
Miss F feels that the service that AXA has provided over the years has been lacking as she 
says:
there has been poor service on phone calls
sometimes she didnt receive her policy documents or renewal calls
she feels this all points to a lack of care and supports that she should have been told 
about the different levels of cover available
AXA has already offered Miss F £75 for the poor service she received in a telephone call 
with it, this is in line with what Id expect. Miss Fs policy renewed each year without issue 
and AXA has shown that it sent the policy documents each year, it also said while it likes to 
call its customers at renewal it doesnt always do this, and I cant see that it is required to. 
So, I dont think that this makes a difference to the overall outcome or shows a pattern of 
lack of care that Miss F has been disadvantaged by. It follows that I wont be asking AXA to 
do anything more here to put things right for Miss F. 
I know Miss F will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with AXA  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman