DRN-3580380
The complaint
Mr T has complained that NTM Financial Services Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
Mr T first met with a representative of NTM Financial Services Ltd in October 2017. At
this time Mr T had already been provided with a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value
(CETV) for the deferred benefits he had accrued under the BSPS scheme.
At the time of advice, it was expected that in respect of his preserved pension rights he 
would be presented with three options:
(i) become a member of the new BSPS 2, which was another final salary scheme, but
which retained most of the benefits of the existing BSPS.
(ii) remain a member of the existing BSPS, which would eventually move into the PPF
in March 2018; or
(iii) take advice about transferring the value of his benefits out of the BSPS to a
PPP (or SIPP).
Once the proposal for the BSPS 2 received formal approval from The Pension Regulator 
(TPR) on 11 September 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members in 
late September under the Time to Choose exercise. Mr T and his adviser would have had 
access to the full information about the BSPS 2.
The fact-find completed by NTM recorded the following details about Mr T:
He was aged 46, single, in good health, with a financially dependent child.
He was employed, earning £32,601 per annum.
He owned his own home, valued at £140,000, with a mortgage of £43,000.
Mr T had a loan and credit card debt of £11,000
Mr Ts preferred retirement age was noted as 57.
There was no detailed income and outgoings information, however income was recorded as 
£1,580 per month and fixed outgoings were £900 per month. Surplus income was estimated 
to be £680 per month. Mr T sought an income of £1,800 per month in retirement.
Mr T was also a member of the Group Personal Pension (GPP) offered by the employer, 
contributing 6% of his salary and with his employer contributing 10%. The benefits included 
a four times salary death in service payment.
An attitude to risk questionnaire was completed on 16 October 2017, and Mr T was
assessed as 4 out of 7, where 1 was the lowest risk and 10 the highest, which in the 
notes was described as Average/Medium risk. Mr Ts stated investment aim was growth 
and, having reviewed the answers from the Risk Profile Questionnaire, the risk profile was 
amended from Average to Low. However this additional page wasnt signed or dated, and 
the suitability report and investment choice was based on Average/Medium risk.
In terms of Mr Ts deferred benefit entitlement, NTM estimated that he could expect an 
annual income from the scheme of around £15,354 at age 65. Mr T received a total CETV 
from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £239,128.
The reasons given by the financial adviser for recommending the transfer were as follows:
To provide flexible income.
To give Mr T the ability to retire at 57 and incur no reductions
Better death benefits and Mr T would be able to pass on any unused pension fund in 
full.
The fund would no longer enter the PPF and would not be under his employers 
control.
Mr T would have the ability to take a larger tax-free lump sum.
The ability to meet his goal of having £1,800 per month income in retirement.
In the suitability report, the reasons for recommending the transfer to a PPP were based on 
providing Mr T a list of advantages and disadvantages of transferring his pension and a 
Pros and Cons document.
A recommendation was made, an application form was completed, and the funds were
transferred into the PPP. The charges associated with the transfer were:
Initial advice charge of £4,592.76
Servicing and review fee of 0.65% pa
Platform charge of 0.30% paFund charges weighted average 0.37% pa (although in the critical yield examples set 
out below, 0.22% was used, resulting in possibly lower critical yields than should 
have been the case)
Mr T then raised a complaint about the advice with NTM as he felt that it hadnt explored all 
the options available for him to retire early and had concluded that only a transfer could 
achieve this.
NTM responded to Mr T with its reasons for disagreeing with him and why it was satisfied 
that the advice he had received was suitable.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr T referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
Mr T was 46 at the time of the advice and had accrued over 20 years benefits in the 
BSPS. They would form the bulk of his pension provision, and would therefore have 
been valuable to him. 
This was also noted in the fact find questionnaire, which also set out that the BSPS 
benefits would be a major portion of his retirement funding which should be 
protected as a far is reasonably possible. And the simplest way of achieving this was 
to recommend that Mr T not transfer his defined benefits.
By opting to join the BSPS 2, which Mr T should have been advised to do, he would 
have retained the safeguarded benefits providing the low risk foundation to his 
retirement income, which coupled with his GPP benefits, would have constituted a 
healthy mix of risk/reward for an inexperienced investor seeking professional, 
balanced advice.
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 4.4% pa for the period up to Mr Ts normal retirement date 
(65), and 3.5% up to age 55. This compared to respective required critical yields to 
match the BSPS benefits at 65 of 7.39%, and to match them at 55 of 12.22%. For the 
PPF, these were 4.42% and 8.69% respectively.
Pension illustration growth rates set by the regulator were 2%, 5% and 8% for low, 
medium and higher projected returns.
The pension provider illustration also gave projected rates of growth, for the asset 
mix which would be suitable for a moderate investor such as Mr T, of 1.67%, 4.67% 
and 7.67% (adding back the 2.5% deducted within those for inflation) for the low, mid 
and high growth rates.
Taking these figures into account, the critical yields werent reasonably achievable, 
and there was no reasonable prospect of Mr T improving upon the scheme benefits.Mr T did have some capacity for loss, given his net disposable income, but he had no 
savings, and debts in the form of a mortgage, credit cards and a loan. And the 
defined benefits were, at the time, almost the entirety of his pension provision.
The defined contributions which would be accrued over the term left to Mr Ts 
retirement, and what this would mean in terms of added flexibility around accessing 
his benefits, hadnt been assessed in the suitability report.
There needed to be a comfortable margin for the transferred benefits to be able to 
improve upon those which would be received from the scheme, especially when the 
investment risk had passed from the scheme to Mr T. But in this case, it was unlikely 
that the OPS benefits would be matched through transferring, let alone bettered. 
If the transfer proposition had been explained impartially and constructively, as per 
COBS 19.1.6 in the regulators handbook, then Mr Ts apparent desire to have 
growth, competitive charging, flexibility at retirement and professional management 
were all already provided by the scheme.
It was NTMs responsibility to demonstrate to Mr T that the transfer was in his best 
interests, but it hadnt fulfilled this requirement here. COBS 9.2.6 said that if a firm 
couldnt obtain the necessary information to assess suitability, it shouldnt make a 
personal recommendation to the client, but NTM didnt undertake a full review of the 
option to transfer to the BSPS 2.
Mr T may have been concerned about the future of the BSPS, but it was NTMs 
responsibility to manage those concerns and provide a balanced view of the 
available options.
Even if BSPS 2 wasnt ultimately deemed viable, many of the important guarantees 
would remain in the PPF.
One of the recorded objectives was for Mr T to be able to retire early, but he was 46 
at the time of the advice, and couldnt have accessed his benefits before age 55. And 
so, with around ten years to go until retirement was even possible, Mr Ts views on 
this could change radically in the intervening period.
There was no real exploration or assessment of Mr Ts surplus income, and how this 
was being used, and his likely income and expenditure in retirement  or why his 
income need by that point would exceed his current expenditure.
Suitable advice would have been to wait until Mr T was nearer retirement to make 
any decision about transferring, if indeed this was required. But it was in any case 
likely that Mr T wouldnt have needed to access his defined benefits before age 65 if 
hed been properly advised.
Although the death benefits would have been formatted in a different way, with any 
remaining pension fund paid as a lump sum, Mr T had no health issues which would 
mean that death benefits would have been of concern at that point. And the financial 
needs of Mr T should have been given prominence over any legacy for his 
dependants. There had in any case been no review of actual need in this regard  
just a quotation for an alternative whole of life policy based on the transfer amount.
If flexibility of income remained a priority for Mr T as he approached retirement age, 
then he could have factored in his GPP benefits, which would likely have meant that 
he wouldnt ever need to consider transferring his defined benefits.
Although some of the advantages and disadvantages of transferring were set out in 
the suitability report, disclosing risks and product features wouldnt render unsuitable 
advice suitable.The FCA had also commented on the timing of the provision of a suitability report in 
COBS 9.4, saying that this needed to be provided in good time before the transfer 
was effected.
But the application form for the PPP was dated 16 October 2017, which preceded the 
suitably report (dated 17 October 2017), and the illustration which wasnt issued until 
17 November 2017. And so it seemed that the decision to transfer had been made 
before full advice was formally delivered, in breach of COBS 9.4.
There was simply no need for Mr T to take on the investment risk associated with 
transferring out, and he would have benefitted from increases in deferment had he 
opted for either the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
The investigator recommended that NTM undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr T
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ts pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr T, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that NTM should pay Mr T £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
the matter would have caused him due to the realisation that hes lost out on valuable 
guaranteed benefits.
Mr T agreed with the investigators findings. NTM said that it intended to respond, but has 
submitted no further comments to date.
As no further response from the business was received, the (new) investigator informed both 
parties that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator then informed NTM that hed enquired of Mr T as to whether, if the 
complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the 
existing basis, or to await the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress 
calculations.
Mr T confirmed that hed like any redress calculation to be conducted on the basis of the 
existing guidance.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require NTM to use the 
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr T.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint, they should let him
know by 6 June 2023. In response, Mr T confirmed that he was happy with the prospect of 
the BSPS-specific redress calculator being used.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time NTM advised Mr T were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like NTM, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, NTM 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ts 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of NTMs advice to Mr T in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
NTMs rationale for transferring
Mr T wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and NTM was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, NTM could be confident that he would be acting 
upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr T and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the FCAs guidance 
was that the starting assumption for an assessment of Mr Ts options was that a transfer 
would be unsuitable, unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests 
in order to meet specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr T would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
NTM obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ts objectives from a financial perspective.The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless 
have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.4% pa. And the growth rates used in the TVAS to illustrate the benefits 
which might be payable from a PPP (with the effects of inflations removed) were 1.67% 
(low), 4.67% (mid) and 7.67% (high).
The critical yields to age 65, at 7.39% and then 12.22% to age 55 (and likely somewhere 
approaching this for age 57), therefore comfortably exceeded both the discount (or growth) 
rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the mid growth rate used by the pension 
provider  which might perhaps be a reasonable assumption for an average risk investor.
The above critical yields were calculated on the basis of the BSPS benefits, rather than the 
BSPS 2 benefits. The critical yields to match those which would be produced by the PPF at 
age 65 were 4.42% pa, and 8.69% pa to age 55. 
Given what was known about the proposed BSPS 2 and Mr Ts own projected benefits, I 
think it ought to have been possible to produce critical yields for that proposed successor 
scheme as well. But in the absence of those, I think that assuming critical yields somewhere 
between those for the BSPS and the PPF wouldnt be unreasonable in estimating those 
which might be required for the BSPS 2. But these would still have been higher than the 
growth rate which would reasonably have been projected for an investor such as Mr T.
NTM itself said it considered the critical yields to likely be unachievable, and I agree - I think 
its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year on year, for the 
number of years that Mr T had until he reached either early or normal retirement age. And as 
a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance 
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ts best 
interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial 
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr T would be relinquishing.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that NTM did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as NTM will be aware, 
and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice 
suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this also 
wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. NTM needed to be satisfied, before 
providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment 
risk was a suitable course of action for Mr T.As Ive said above, NTMs reasoning for the recommended transfer, despite the likely 
inability of the transferred benefits to match those which would have been produced by the 
scheme, was that Mr T required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances, 
objectives, and concerns about his employer and the pension scheme. And so Ive given this 
argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr T may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
I also think its quite possible that Mr T had an average risk rating, given his age and 
number of years to retirement  although I have also noted the lower risk classification as 
well. But I think theres also the wider issue about Mr Ts capacity to take financial risks with 
his pension funds which is pertinent to the overall suitability of what was recommended here. 
The investigator concluded that Mr T had some capacity for loss in view of his disposable 
income, but given his paucity of other assets and outstanding debts, he didnt think that this 
was significant, such that he could afford to place his defined benefits at risk. 
And Im inclined to agree. Mr T had joined the replacement defined contribution scheme, and 
so would likely have accrued a reasonable amount of money purchase benefits given the 
overall contribution rate (if he remained with the same employer) by retirement. But other 
than the state pension which wouldnt be payable until age 67, the defined benefits accrued 
through the BSPS were still likely to have been his main source of guaranteed income. 
Through transferring, Mr T was effectively putting a lot of his eggs in one money purchase 
basket. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them would therefore have had an 
impact on his financial security in retirement.
But I also dont think Mr T in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of 
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr T would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. 
But other than concerns around the employer and associated scheme, which Ill address 
further below, its unclear as to why Mr T would have wanted or needed such flexibility at the 
cost of such valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk associated with the 
transfer, and bearing in mind his average attitude to risk and apparent lack of any similar 
historical investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with his 
pension income.
Ive also thought about whether Mr T could meet his objectives of retiring early whilst also 
retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And in my 
consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr T to take tax free cash 
from the BSPS 2 or PPF without also starting to take an income. 
But as noted above, by age 65, Mr T would have accrued around 19 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme, or 11 years by age 57. Given the likely value of 
this separate pot of money on the basis of the employer and employee contribution rates, 
this could be used to plug any gaps between him starting to take flexible benefits and his 
OPS/state pension beginning. Its possible that he could have relied on the proceeds of his 
defined contributions plan for flexible access to pension benefits, from whatever age after 
57, and then taken guaranteed benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when 
needed. Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years 
left to age 65  although I would say that I dont think the actual income requirement was 
demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could in any case reasonably have been 
known with any certainty given his distance from retirement - Mr T could then have begun to 
take the scheme benefits early if needed.
Mr T would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income (or lump sum
withdrawals if he later decided he wanted them) through the defined contribution accrual, 
until the point that he either needed, or chose, to begin taking benefits from either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF. And so any need for flexibility of income could have been addressed in this 
way.
Mr T may then have been in the fortunate position of receiving an income which was higher 
than his actual needs, especially when the state pension began, but he could have simply 
reinvested any excess as he saw fit, or, to provide a legacy for his child or extended family, 
immediately gift it away to avoid it being subject to inheritance tax.
NTM has suggested that Mr T was willing to accept the trade-off between a secure income 
and risk to achieve his objectives. As Ive said above, although Mr T didnt have any 
particular financial experience, I think he may have understood the principle of risk/reward, 
and risk warnings were provided by NTM. 
But as Ive noted above, Mr T was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution 
scheme, and given the likely accumulation of funds in that scheme, compared against the 
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme retirement age, around 19 
years of his pension accrual at age 65 (or 11 at age 57) would likely be derived of the 
defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr T would already by necessity have been taking 
investment risk through the replacement scheme.
In light of this, and given that in the 28 years up to that point Mr T had been accruing defined 
benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value and shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which 
was loosely defined around the apparent desire for early retirement and concerns around the 
employer/scheme. 
And on that particular note, as with others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr T 
would have been concerned about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But 
Mr Ts concerns around this should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that 
there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or 
concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the 
professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing 
an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the
employer, even if Mr T distrusted it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which 
had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the 
necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and 
in fact by the point of the Time to Choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than 
not to be a viable alternative. 
There were still conditions which still needed to be met for the BSPS 2 to be established, but 
when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF 
without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I think its reasonable to say 
that all indications were to the contrary.I also have concerns around the way in which the situation at that time was portrayed to Mr 
T. At several points in the recommendation report, the lack of employer underpinning was 
mentioned, but this wouldnt by the point of advice have meant that Mr Ts pension benefits 
were in peril, with the fallback position being that, even if the BSPS 2 couldnt be formed, 
they would be transferred into the PPF. 
And again, the loss of the guarantee from the employer was mentioned, but the benefits 
(albeit in a slightly reduced form) would have been guaranteed even in the PPF. 
Although the benefits of the PPF were mentioned in a later part of the report, I think Mr Ts 
concerns would have been reinforced by much of the language used, rather than mitigated. 
And as Ive said above, I think by the time of the advice, the formation of the BSPS 2 was 
the more likely of the possible outcomes.
As Ive said above, the prospect of Mr Ts accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had 
receded. But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided 
him with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he 
did in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
And so I think that, had Mr Ts concerns been better managed, the seeming key driver for 
having control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
Mr T therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits 
at that point. The prospect of Mr Ts accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had receded. 
But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with 
valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did in 
fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
Mr Ts plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 11 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 57. Any flexibility requirements could 
have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ts retirement  and Mr T would have 
been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if needed.
There may have been lower CETVs offered in the future if gilt yields and other market 
factors changed, but for the reasons given, I think that Mr T could have achieved a degree of 
flexibility with his pension benefits without needing to transfer at all. And even if he did 
ultimately decide that flexi access drawdown was his preferred option  and again, this could 
have been established closer to his actual retirement age  Mr T or his adviser could then 
assess at that point whether the transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was 
sufficient reason for Mr T to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
NTM said in the suitability report that the different format of the death benefits was appealing 
to Mr T. And its fair to say that, if Mr T remained single, the death benefits offered by the 
transfer would likely be more beneficial to Mr Ts child and/or his extended family. 
But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ts benefits. Firstly, he 
had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to 
not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of time, 
were of concern at that point. The second is that accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals 
retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy for children who are likely to no longer be 
dependent by that point. The recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Ts 
best interests rather than those of his then dependent child (who would in any case receive a 
dependants pension from the scheme until leaving full time education), or extended family. 
And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the 
extended family, this cannot be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. The desire 
to leave a legacy to a child or extended family members cannot reasonably have subjugated 
Mr Ts own personal requirement to benefit from his accrued pension benefits. The wish to 
leave any such legacy should have been properly weighed against the guaranteed benefits 
Mr T was relinquishing, and NTM should have advised him that his own financial benefit took 
priority here.
There was also no suggestion as to why a lump sum, beyond the death in service lump sum 
payment which would be paid if he remained in the same employment, would have been 
important to Mr Ts child or extended family in the event of his death. I therefore think that it 
was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave some kind of financial 
legacy, but not essential, and certainly not of sufficient importance to justify Mr T 
compromising the security of his own financial future.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ts child or 
extended family by way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to 
transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr T personally. 
What should NTM have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ts decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr T. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr T to make any decision
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of NTM to
explain to Mr T why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Ts scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have 
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point 
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be 
successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr T was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr T, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - possible early retirement 
was in any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the
scenario of entry into the PPF.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ts
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr T to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 46.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ts concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future
pension which would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon 
investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise 
have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, should Mr Ts relationship circumstances change in the 
future, albeit in a different format from those available from the PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the mid band
growth rate set out by the pension provider. And Id reiterate that I think it was unlikely
to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits, given Mr Ts
recorded risk attitude.
Taking account of Mr Ts circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his objectives 
and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF, my view is that NTM should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr T would have followed that advice and not
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr T, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ts recorded attitude to risk 
and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required 
to match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a 
comprehensive and balanced portrayal of Mr Ts options and the future benefits available 
from both the BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 
19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr T were available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of
scheme benefits which would have been available to him. 
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Ts recorded (if not in fact lower) 
attitude to risk with regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely 
corresponding investment returns, it was unlikely (as also indicated by NTM), albeit I 
acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor 
scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, 
NTM would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring 
wasnt in Mr Ts best interests.Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In terms of the option Mr T would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted that 
there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ts pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. My understanding is that Mr T was in the process of divorcing at the time 
of the advice, and I cant see that it was recorded that he envisaged remarrying in the 
foreseeable future, and so I dont think this particular enhancement over the PPF benefits 
would have had much resonance for Mr T at that time.
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
One of Mr Ts recorded objectives was the ability to retire early. And so this would have been 
a point which required careful consideration when weighing up whether he should opt for the 
BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move into the PPF.
But for the reasons set out above, even if Mr T envisaged retiring early, I think its likely that, 
properly advised, he could have accessed his defined contribution scheme benefits to make 
up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined 
benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age. The 
advantages of early retirement through the PPF wouldnt therefore have applied.
And so, for the reasons given, my view is that its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes.
I therefore consider that Mr T would most likely have remained in the occupational pension 
scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given. And as Ive set out 
above, given the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr T 
would take his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined 
above, of accessing his accrued defined contributions flexibly if required.
NTM Financial Services Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
NTM Financial Services Ltd should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.Mr T hasnt yet retired, and my understanding is that he has no plans to do so early at 
present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, NTM Financial Services Ltd should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts NTM Financial Services Ltds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented,
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require NTM Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr T the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on NTM Financial Services Ltd.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on NTM Financial Services Ltd. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr T could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
As with the investigator, my view is that this matter will have caused Mr T a not 
inconsiderable amount of concern about his security in retirement. As such, I agree that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mr T £300 in respect of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct NTM Financial Services Ltd to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman