DRN-4510922
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with several aspects of the service that shes received from Salary
Finance Limited (SFL).
What happened
In July 2021, Miss B successfully applied to SFL for a personal loan. The loan amount was
£18,400 to be repaid over 60 months at £462.44 per month.
In June 2022, Miss B noticed that her online account was missing loan payments that shed
made earlier that year. Miss B contacted SFL about this and they confirmed that the loan
payments werent showing on her account at that time but said that when they were applied
to the account they would do so retrospectively, so that Miss B wasnt adversely affected.
Miss B asked SFL to provide an accurate account statement to her which showed all the
payments that shed made.
Several weeks passed without SFL providing the accurate account statement to Miss B. This
led Miss B to request an early settlement figure from SFL. But SFL didnt provide an early
settlement figure to Miss B and still didnt provide an accurate account statement to her
either. Miss B wasnt happy about this, and she was concerned that SFL were administering
her loan incorrectly. So, in July 2022, she raised a complaint.
SFL responded to Miss B in September 2022 and confirmed that the account statement
shed received in June 2022 hadnt included several payments shed made earlier in 2022
because there had been a delay in applying those payments to her account. SFL apologised
to Miss B for this for this and confirmed that the payments had now been credited to her
account. And SFL made a payment of £50 to Miss B for any trouble or upset she may have
incurred. Miss B wasnt satisfied with SFLs response, especially as she still hadnt received
an accurate statement for her loan. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that SFL hadnt provided the
standard of service to Miss B that they reasonably should have. And so, in February 2023,
they recommended that SFL provide an accurate account statement and settlement figure to
Miss B as a matter of urgency and pay her a further £100 as compensation for the trouble
and upset shed incurred.
SFL accepted the recommendations put forwards by our investigator. But by the end of May
2023, they still hadnt provided an accurate statement or a settlement figure to Miss B. So, 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 October 2023 as follows:
When Miss B referred her complaint to this service, she said that she felt that because SFL
had failed to provide an account statement or settlement figure to her within a reasonable
amount of time that SFL had failed to adhere to the terms of the loan agreement such that
the loan was legally unenforceable.
This service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead,
this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant
law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on
determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial
perspective, after taking all the factors and circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
This means that it isnt within my remit to comment on whether SFL can or cant legally
enforce the loan agreement. If Miss B still wants a decision on this point, she would need to
obtain one through a Court of Law  although I note that this appears to be a moot point,
given that the loan has now been settled. However, I can comment on whether I feel that
SFL have administered Miss Bs loan in a fair manner.
It's my understanding that in July 2023, SFL did provide a full accurate loan statement and a
settlement figure to Miss B  who then paid that amount to SFL to settle the loan. And it
appears that this statement does include the payments from early 2022 that Miss B had
made but which werent initially showing on her account, and that those payments have
been applied retrospectively from the correct dates as SFL had promised they would be.
As such, it seems to me from the loan statement and settlement figure information that SFL
have provided to this service, that SFL have administered the loan fairly and correctly from a
loan balance and settlement figure amount point of view.
But it remains the case that Miss B first asked SFL for an accurate loan statement in June
2022, and for a settlement figure in July 2022  but only received these from SFL in July
2023. And by any reasonable standard, that is poor service.
I note from the loan statement that SFL stopped charging interest on the loan in July 2022,
as a response to the ongoing service issues that Miss B had encountered up to that time.
This means that Miss B made eleven loan payments  from August 2022 to June 2023  on
an interest free basis, such that the full £462.44 payment was used to reduce the capital
balance of the loan. And given that in the months immediately preceding August 2022 the
interest share of the £462.44 payments was approximately £250  with roughly £210 being
applied to reduce the capital balance outstanding  it seems clear to me that Miss B has
benefitted considerably from SFLs decision to stop charging interest on the loan.
This is important, because while I do feel that Miss B has incurred a degree of frustration
and inconvenience here surrounding the poor service shes received from SFL, I also feel
that SFL acting to stop charging interest on the loan has been of significant financial benefit
to Miss B and should be taken into consideration.
When our investigator issued their view on this complaint in February 2023, they
recommended that SFL should provide an accurate account statement and a settlement
figure to Miss B and that SFL should pay a further £100 compensation to her, in addition to
the £50 that theyd already paid. And SFL accepted the recommendation of our investigator
at that time.
However, it took SFL a further five months to provide the documents to Miss B as it agreed
to do in February 2023. And in consideration of this ongoing delay, and the upset and trouble
its caused Miss B, my provisional decision here is that SFL must increase their payment of
further compensation to Miss B from £100 to £200.I had initially considered a greater award of further compensation here. But Ive taken
account of the general framework this service uses when assessing compensation amounts
 further details of which can be found on this services website. And Im mindful, as per my
discussion above, of the significant financial benefit that SFL have already provided to
Miss B here, by not charging interest on this account from August 2022 onwards. And in
consideration of these points, I feel that further compensation of £200 is a fair amount.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision letter and put forward an argument as to why 
she didnt feel the outcome Id provisionally instructed was fair. This led me to issue a 
second provisional decision, on 6 December 2023, as follows:
Miss B responded to my provisional decision and said that she felt that she hadnt benefited
from not being charged interest on the loan from July 2022 as Id suggested. This was
because shed requested a settlement figure in July 2022 which she would have paid had it
been provided to her when it should have been by SFL. As such, Miss B argues that she
shouldnt have incurred interest on the loan from July 2022 onwards, because it should have
been settled around that time, and that therefore the lack of interest shes paid on the
balance at that time isnt a benefit, but is rather the act of SFL taking corrective action to put
her in the position she should reasonably be in.
I feel that Miss B raises a valid point here. I note that it doesnt necessarily follow that a loan
will be settled by an account holder who requests a settlement figure. But in this instance,
given that a primary aspect of Miss Bs complaint is that she was unable to settle the loan, I
feel its more likely than not that Miss B would have settled the loan in July 2022, had a
settlement figure been provided to her by SFL at that time as she requested.
Consequently, my position on this point has changed, and I now feel that the argument that I
put forwards in my provisional decision above that Miss B has benefited financially from the
interest only period provided by SFL since July 2022 is invalid. Furthermore, I now feel that
Miss B has incurred a degree of upset and frustration resulting from SFLs failure to facilitate
the settlement of her loan in a reasonable timeframe that she shouldnt have had to incur,
and for which I feel she should fairly be compensated for.
When deciding on compensation awards for distress and inconvenience, this service
considers the impact that the events in question have had on the affected party. And in this
instance, Miss B has evidenced that she suffers with anxiety and attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and has explained how the events under consideration here
impacted her adversely because of these conditions. And this includes that Miss B was
continuously troubled by not being able to settle the loan as she wanted to.
Miss B has also explained that she made SFL aware of the effect of their not providing a
loan settlement figure to her on her mental health. SFL have no record of Miss B ever
disclosing her anxiety or ADHD to them. However, regardless of whether Miss B did or did
not give details of her mental health to SFL or not, I feel that the previously described impact
on Miss B of SFL not providing the loan settlement figure to her remains.
Accordingly, in consideration of the prolonged length of time that SFL didnt provide a loan
settlement figure to Miss B, and in consideration of the significant impact of SFLs actions on
Miss B because of her mental health conditions, my new position here is that Ill be
provisionally upholding this complaint in Miss Bs favour and instructing SFL to pay a further
£650 to Miss B as compensation for the worry and anxiety shes unfairly had to incur.
In arriving at this compensation amount Ive considered the impact of the events in questionon Miss B, as previously explained, as well as the general framework which this service uses
when assessing compensation amounts  details of which can be found on this services
website. And it should be noted here that my intention is that Miss B should receive a total of
£750 compensation, taking into account the £100 that she has already received.
This final point is important because Miss B has explained that she never received the £50
compensation that SFL initially offered her, such that she has only received £100
compensation form SFL to date. If Miss B is incorrect in this assertion, and if SFL can
demonstrate that they did pay the £50 compensation they initially offered to her (so that they
have paid £150 in total to date) then my provisional instruction is that SFL must only pay a
further £600 to Miss B  so that she receives a total of £750 compensation.
It would be expected that SFL would evidence this point in response to this provisional
decision within the timeframe given below. If no such evidence is received, I will proceed on
the basis that Miss B has only received £100 compensation to date.
Both Miss B and SFL responded to my second provisional decision and confirmed that they 
were happy to accept it. SFL also demonstrated that they had paid £150 to Miss B to date, 
which was paid as a single payment to Miss Bs bank account on 23 March 2023.
As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Miss Bs favour on the basis outlined 
above. And I therefore confirm that my final decision here is that I do uphold this complaint in 
Miss Bs favour on that basis accordingly. This includes that SFL must make a further 
payment of £600 to Miss B, in addition to the £150 theyve already paid.
Putting things right
SFL must make a payment of £600 to Miss B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Salary Finance Limited on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman