DRN-3775629
The complaint
Miss Y complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
her claim for an escape of water.
What happened
Miss Y made a claim to RSA under her home insurance policy in June 2021. The claim was 
for an escape of water. RSA appointed its surveyors to visit the property and assess the 
damage. Following this, a settlement was put forward but Miss Y was unhappy with it. 
The damage was then re-assessed and a schedule of works was compiled. RSA made a 
final offer to cash settle the claim, but Miss Y still didnt agree, saying there were things 
missing from the schedule. She also thought the service RSA had provided had been poor 
and that itd caused delays in handling the claim. So she made a complaint.
RSA said in its response that regarding the settlement amount, it didnt agree it was liable for 
everything Miss Y had said was missing from the schedule of works, but agreed to pay a 
contribution towards the cost of the kitchen units. It also acknowledged that delays had 
occurred and offered Miss Y £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. It didnt uphold several other aspects of Miss Ys complaint.
Miss Y didnt agree with RSAs response. She said RSA had been dishonest in its response, 
that the settlement offer was still unfair, as was RSAs stance in relation to the drying 
process, her alternative accommodation and the overall service provided and delays caused. 
Because Miss Y disagreed with RSA, she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended that the complaint be upheld. She 
said she didnt think it necessary for Miss Y to appoint her own loss assessor and didnt think 
the cost of this should be covered by RSA. But she recommended that RSA cover the costs 
of areas directly affected by the leak.
As Miss Y didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I agree with our investigator that the appointment of a loss assessor was not 
necessary. Miss Y decided to appoint a loss assessor at the end of July for help in 
progressing the claim, but this was only some weeks after the claim was initially 
raised. I can see from the information provided that RSA and its contractors were 
making progress with the claim and investigations were being carried out to amend 
the scope of works, when Miss Y chose to appoint her own loss assessor. Whilst I 
can appreciate and understand the reasons why Miss Y would wish to appoint her 
own loss assessor, and the stressful situation she was in, I consider this was her 
choice and I dont consider it reasonable for RSA to cover the cost of this.
Regarding the damaged worktops, Ive seen a report from the joiner who said some 
damage was caused when removing the dishwasher to gain access to the leak. And 
Ive also seen photographs which support this. So Im persuaded that RSA is liable to 
cover half the cost of new worktops. Ive considered the photos and submissions 
Miss Y has provided, but I still dont consider RSA liable for the full cost of the 
worktops as theres insufficient evidence that all the damage was caused as a direct 
result of the leak or investigations. However, if it transpires that the current worktops 
cannot be refitted, then RSA will need to reconsider their scope and pay for new 
worktops.
Miss Y believes that RSA should contribute towards half the cost of the cornice, 
pelmet and three wall end panels as these were also damaged and form part of a 
matching set. RSA has confirmed that a payment of £250 would be reasonable to 
cover half the cost of these areas, and I consider this a fair offer.
In relation to the broken tiles, Ive seen photographs which evidence the damage 
caused to these. And as our investigator said, the damage to these appears to be 
isolated to around the heating controls, so Im persuaded that these need to be 
replaced and RSA should cover the cost of these.
I also consider the heating controls were damaged as a direct result of the leak. And 
Ive seen an electricians report which supports this, as it confirms that new heating 
controls are necessary and that water had tracked down the thermostat cable into the 
junction box, which could fail in the future if not inspected. RSA should also cover the 
cost of new heating controls and rectify any issues with the junction box.
Miss Y says her oven failed an electrical test and this prolonged her being without 
cooking facilities. However, I dont consider there to be enough evidence to persuade 
me that the oven failed as a direct result of the leak. So I wont be asking RSA to do 
any more in relation to this.
Ive considered whether RSA needs to pay anything further for alternative 
accommodation or as a disturbance allowance. Its paid Miss Y £4000 which it says 
was an interim payment that couldve been used to reinstate the property to make it 
habitable. And it communicated to Miss Ys loss assessor that she was entitled to a 
disturbance allowance in emails Ive seen. So I dont think it needs to do any more, 
as this offer was made clear at the time to Miss Ys loss assessor. If RSA wishes to 
reconsider the amount payable to Miss Y in light of any new evidence provided, then 
it is free to do so.
Regarding drying works at the property, I think its fair for RSA to cover this  but I 
dont consider its acted unfairly or that its not agreed to do this for the last 17 
months, as I can see from the correspondence that this was offered previously, once 
strip out works were complete. So RSA should pay the average of two quotes 
provided by Miss Y to ensure that the property is sufficiently dry, and for any 
disinfection works that are needed. It also needs to sufficiently cover any costs 
directly associated with the drying work, upon receipt of evidence from Miss Y, such 
as electricity costs for the drying equipment, and any other related work which would 
need to be carried out in order for the property to be properly dried.
Miss Y is dissatisfied with the overall handling of her claim, and has mentioned RSA caused unreasonable delays and that there was a lack of responsiveness, among 
other things. Ive considered very carefully everything shes told us about how RSA 
managed the claim as well as all her written communication and the numerous 
photographs shes sent us. RSA has offered Miss Y £250 which I consider a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience in this case, 
so I wont be asking it to further compensate Miss Y. This is in part because I can 
only consider matters up until the final response was issued by RSA to Miss Y on 3 
February 2022. I cannot award compensation for events or poor service after that 
date. For this to be considered, Miss Y would need to submit a new complaint to RSA 
for anything shes unhappy about which took place after 3 February 2022.
Miss Y has raised a number of additional points such as the submissions shes made 
in relation to mould mites at the property and the pest control company costs, issues 
regarding the concrete and concrete screed and further testing. As these are also 
issues which were not considered in RSAs final response letter dated 3 February 
2022, Miss Y will need to raise a new complaint to RSA if she remains unhappy with 
how theyve responded to these issues. I understand Miss Y has raised some issues 
with RSA some four weeks ago and it has yet to respond fully. If RSA fails to respond 
within eight weeks of Miss Y raising these points with it, then she may be able to 
bring a new complaint to this service about those issues, but not about the issues 
covered in this decision.
I appreciate Miss Y would ideally like for me to confirm that all the points shes raised 
will be covered and dealt with under this decision. But that doesnt reflect the informal 
nature of this service, nor would it be possible for me to deal with matters not 
addressed in the final response letter. Its also not for me to compile a schedule of 
work thats now needed. Its for RSA to now put together an updated schedule of all 
the payments due to Miss Y and to reconsider the claim in light of this decision. It 
must also deal promptly with any new complaint Miss Y brings to it, in relation to 
outstanding issues that were not addressed in its final response letter dated 3 
February 2022. I hope this decision, however, goes some way to allowing Miss Y and 
her family to commence work to significantly improve their living conditions.
Putting things right
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must now:
- Cover the cost of the replacement heating controls.
- Cover the cost of replacing the damaged wall tiles.
- Pay 50% towards the cost of the replacement worktops and the remaining four base 
end panels.
- Pay 50% towards the doors only of the remaining base units.
- Pay £250 towards the damaged cornice, pelmet and panels.
- Pay the average of two quotes for drying/disinfecting the property which are to be 
provided by Miss Y once strip out works are complete.
- Complete any other payments already agreed directly with Miss Y or her loss 
assessor.
- Respond promptly and in full to any further complaints Miss Y has raised in relation to issues not covered in this decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman