DRN-1540698
 
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with being asked to pay an excess before First Central Insurance 
Management Limited (First Central) would investigate a claim shed made. Miss D has also 
expressed dissatisfaction at the customer service provided by First Central. 
What happened
Miss Ds car was involved in an incident in June 2019  what she describes as a hit and run. 
Miss D got in touch with First Central to let them know. First Central told Miss D that if she 
wanted her car to be fixed shed need to make a claim on her motor insurance policy and 
pay the excess. 
Miss D didnt want to pay the policy excess. First Central told Miss D that it couldnt waive 
the excess unless it had an acceptance of liability from the third-party driver. They suggested 
that she could contact the third-party insurer directly and also that she could make a subject 
access request (SAR) to the police to access CCTV footage that she says would show the 
incident.
Miss D felt that she shouldnt have to pay an excess as the incident wasnt her fault and that 
First Central were rude to her during their phone calls. Miss D complained to First Central 
about this. First Central didnt change their mind about the excess but it did accept their 
customer service couldve been better and awarded £25 to acknowledge that. 
Miss D remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. When Miss D first got in 
touch with us, she said she was unhappy with what First Central told her about obtaining the 
CCTV footage but since then has said she didnt want to continue that part of her complaint.
Our investigator found, in summary, that First Central werent wrong to tell Miss D that shed 
need to pay the policy excess before theyd get involved in the claim. Whilst he noted that 
First Central had offered Miss D £25 as compensation for how theyd handled things, he 
didnt feel that hed heard any evidence during the phone calls that First Central had been 
rude or didnt listen to her. So he didnt recommend that First Central needed to do anything 
further than it had already offered to do. 
Miss D remained unhappy and the complaint has now been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive included two headings below to answer the two main parts of Miss Ds complaint. 
The excess on her insurance policy 
Firstly, almost all insurance policies will have an excess on them. That is, the first part of 
any claim that a customer must pay. Having carefully considered the terms and conditions of this insurance policy as well as the 
policy schedule, the relevant excess for this policy was £250 and that is the amount First 
Central asked Miss D to pay. Miss D felt that as the incident wasnt her fault she shouldnt 
have to pay any excess and she referred to a previous claim where she says the excess was 
waived by the insurer. 
In this case, I think First Central acted fairly and within the policy terms by asking Miss D to 
pay her policy excess if she wanted to make a claim. If Miss D had a different experience 
with a different business in the past, this doesnt mean First Central were required to do the 
same in this case. So I dont think First Central have treated her unfairly in asking her to pay 
the policy excess to start a claim. 
Until Miss D made a claim and paid the excess, First Central didnt have a responsibility to 
handle the claim or seek to pursue the third party insurer. They also made her aware of what 
she could do to avoid paying an excess - pursuing the claim herself.
Ive also noted that First Central explained to Miss D that, if she made a claim  paying the 
excess - and the third party insurer later admitted fault, that they would try to recover the 
cost of her excess. 
The customer service provided by First Central
Miss D is unhappy with what she says was abrupt and unsupportive behaviour from First 
Central advisers when she spoke to them on the phone. I can understand Miss Ds 
frustration at the messages she was getting from First Central - particularly given what shes 
said about a previous insurer waiving the policy excess when making a claim and her feeling 
that this accident wasnt her fault. 
Having listened to the calls Miss D had with First Central, I cant fairly say that Ive found or 
heard anything to back up Miss Ds recollection of the customer service she says she 
received. 
For example, I think the adviser gave Miss D opportunities to speak and then responded 
appropriately. I recognise that some later frustration was caused by the information First 
Central gave Miss D about obtaining CCTV from the Police. But the information First Central 
gave about how to get the CCTV footage wasnt wrong. 
First Central offered Miss D £25 for how the call on 17 July 2019 was handled and Im not 
directing First Central to do anything further. 
Having carefully considered everything, although I understand this isnt the outcome that 
Miss D wanted, I dont uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman