DRN-4330992
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund her after she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mrs S is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mrs S throughout this decision.
Mrs S says that in October 2022 she received a message from a recruiter discussing a part 
time role with a company Ill refer to as T in this decision that involved reviewing popular 
tourist destinations. Mrs S wasnt looking for a new job but worked in the travel industry and 
thought she could make connections that would help her. After this, Mrs S received 
messages from someone who said shed been given Mrs S details by the recruiter. This 
person explained that Mrs S would receive commission for completing tasks but needed to 
make payments to unlock the commission, which would in turn lead to more tasks being 
unlocked.
Mrs S was told shed be paid in cryptocurrency and that she needed to open an account with 
Wise to withdraw funds. She could track progress on a portal. 
I have set out below the payments Mrs S made:
Payment number Date Amount Recipient
1 03/11/22 £5,000 1
2 03/11/22 £3,610 2
3 04/11/22 £6,284 3
4 05/11/22 £6,000 1
Total £20,894
Part way through Mrs Ss interactions with T, T changed its name to a well-known review 
platform. 
Mrs S became concerned when she was asked for more money and was advised to use 
credit. She contacted the genuine review company, which told her shed been scammed. 
Mrs S reported what had happened to Wise on 22 November 2022. 
Wise referred to its terms of use agreement and said that it is for the sender of funds to 
ensure the legitimacy of a recipient and that it cant get involved in disputes between 
senders and recipients. Wise went on to say that it didnt consider the transactions Mrs S 
made to be unusual, particularly given that the account was new. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint initially asked Wise to refund 50% of all 
payments. This was largely because the payments Mrs S was making didnt align with the 
chosen account opening purpose  contributing to savings. In response to the view, Wise 
provided evidence to show it had previously provided incorrect information and the account 
was opened to invest. Wise also said it should have intervened when the £6,000 payment 
was made and offered to refund Mrs S 50% of the final £6,000 payment. 
The investigator issued a second view in which he said Wise should refund 50% of the last 
payment. He said that the first £5,000 wasnt unusual for an EMI account as large transfers 
are often made from such accounts and, as the account wasnt being used to save, a 
transfer to a third party wasnt unusual. The investigator also didnt think payments two and 
three were unusual, and neither was the pattern of crediting the account before making a 
transfer. But the investigator agreed with Wise that the final payment was unusual, and that 
intervention would have made a difference so asked Wise to refund 50% of this payment. He 
didnt ask Wise to reimburse in full as he explained in his first view that Mrs S had 
contributed to her loss.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators revised findings and so her complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. In summary, she said:
- The first payment of £5,000 should have triggered an intervention from Wise given its 
value. Mrs S then made a further payment meaning that shed transferred £8,610 in a 
short timeframe to two new payees  which certainly required intervention from Wise.
- Mrs S opened a new account with Wise to make the scam payments. It is common 
knowledge within the industry that new accounts pose a greater risk of fraud, 
particularly as many victims are being asked to open accounts with electronic money 
institutions (EMIs) like Wise. 
- EMIs should react to new fraud trends and intervene when unusual payments are 
made. Mrs S representative referred to a previous published decision. 
- If questions had been asked the scam would quickly have been uncovered as Mrs S 
was making cryptocurrency payments for a job. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mrs S was the victim of a scam. I can understand why she wants to do all 
she can to recover the money she lost. But I can only direct Wise to refund Mrs S loss if it 
can fairly and reasonably be held responsible. 
It is accepted that Mrs S authorised the scam payments from her Wise account. So, 
although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs S is presumed liable for 
her loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received Wises obligation is to follow the instructions 
that she provides.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank or money transfer platform like Wise to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be if a payment instruction is 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the account. In such 
circumstances Id expect Wise to intervene and ask more questions about the intended 
transaction before processing it.
Im mindful Mrs S didnt have an existing relationship with Wise and that the only 
transactions on the account related to the scam. This means that Wise didnt have an 
understanding of Mrs S normal spending patterns to compare the transactions with. Ive seen evidence to confirm that when she opened the account, Mrs S told Wise the 
account had been opened for investment purposes. She then made payments to individuals. 
Whilst we know that Mrs S made these payments to buy cryptocurrency using a peer to peer 
platform, there was nothing to indicate to Wise that this was why Mrs S was making 
transfers. The transfers appeared to be to named individuals. 
Generally speaking, when making a payment relating to an investment, an individual would 
pay a company or a cryptocurrency exchange. As Mrs S was paying an individual its 
arguable that Wise should have provided some form of on-screen warning when she made 
the first payment. Im not persuaded such a warning would have uncovered the job scam 
Mrs S was falling victim to though. The job scam is unusual, and Im not persuaded Wise 
would have a warning that covered buying cryptocurrency to get paid commission for 
reviewing holidays/attractions. So, I dont consider an on-screen warning, which is as far as I 
consider Wise might have gone, would have made any difference. 
I think similar considerations would apply to the second and third payments and that at this 
stage the pattern of payments wasnt so unusual that Wise needed to do anything more than 
provide on-screen warnings. Mrs S was paying three new payees and doing so isnt 
uncommon when a new account is opened. Theres a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. If all payments such as the ones Mrs S made were stopped while 
further enquiries were made, many legitimate payments would be stopped which would 
cause significant disruption and delay. 
By the time Mrs S made the final payment of £6,000 I agree that Wise ought reasonably to 
have done more though. She had made some significant payments and an unusual pattern 
of payments had emerged. Im satisfied that had Wise asked Mrs S for some more 
information about the reason for the payment and how she found out about it the scam 
would have been uncovered and Mrs S further loss prevented. Paying money in respect of a 
job opportunity in itself is a serious red flag. 
After considering Mrs Ss own actions I agree with the investigator that she should only 
receive 50% of the final payment. The whole basis of the scam wasnt plausible. Mrs S was 
being asked to buy and transfer cryptocurrency in order to get paid commission. She was 
also being asked to provide what can only be described as fake reviews to earn money. Both 
of these factors are highly irregular and ought reasonably to have led Mrs S to be very 
cautious about the legitimacy of the scheme. And Mrs S didnt receive a contract or other 
paperwork as Id expect. Also, the website addresses provided to Mrs S changed a number 
of times and werent genuine. 
Mrs S has brought a decision of another ombudsman to my attention in support of her belief 
that Wise should have asked questions about the first £5,000 payment. Im required to 
consider the individual facts of this case and reach a decision on them. 
For completeness, the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this case.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Mrs S loss, I cant reasonably ask Wise to refund her in 
full. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated I require Wise Payments Limited to:
- Pay Mrs S £3,000
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple from the 5 November 
2022 to the date of settlement.
If Wise Payments Limited considers they are required by HM Revenue and Customs to take 
off income tax from the 8% simple interest award, they should tell Mrs S how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman