DRN-3045165
The complaint
Mrs G has raised a number of complaints about the poor service she received from National 
Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest). Mrs G believes Natwest should have provided better 
support to her when made aware of her disability  and when her insurer no longer offered 
Mrs G cover for home insurance. Natwest introduced the insurer to Mrs G. 
Mrs G complains that an alternative policy offered through NatWest is unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Ms G lives with a disability following an injury which affects her cognitively. In September 
2019 Ms G contacted Natwest to raise concerns about the service she received while trying 
to discuss her insurance needs. A series of further complaints followed which Natwest 
responded to between January 2020 and September 2020. 
Although some of Ms Gs complaints were brought to us outside of the timeframe Natwest 
gave, Natwest has given this service its consent to look at all of Ms Gs complaints. 
My decision addresses all but one of the complaints Ms G raised during this period. This 
service is separately dealing with a complaint Ms G made about the sale of a package bank 
account to her. 
Our investigator thought that overall Natwest had acted reasonably. So she didnt ask 
Natwest to do any more. 
Ms G didnt agree. She hasnt provided any new information. So Ive set out each complaint 
in my findings with my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Natwest has done enough to resolve Ms Gs complaints. Ill explain 
why. 
Branch staff, disability training and Natwests banking system
In September 2019 Ms G wrote to her local branch of Natwest to raise concerns that 
members of staff at the branch failed to understand her needs. Ms G felt there was a lack of 
training for staff.
Ms G explained that she provided a card describing her disability  but a member of staff 
only took a copy of one side of the card which didnt provide a description for their records. 
Ms G said she found it difficult to bring up the card and so not having it recorded properly 
caused some distress. 
Ms G is unhappy that although she provided the letter explaining her concerns to the branch, 
it wasnt acknowledged by their branch manager and instead passed to a complaints 
department. Ms G felt a courtesy call from the branch manager would have been appropriate 
instead. 
Ms G says she felt Natwests banking module lacked the ability to tailor to individual needs 
such as Ms Gs and those customers who are vulnerable. 
I appreciate Ms G has general concerns around staff training and how this would better 
enable staff to help Ms G and other vulnerable customers. I can see that Natwest did provide 
feedback to the branch involved. 
NatWest confirmed they are working on providing support to vulnerable customers and are 
currently working on developing specialised teams to provide further support. Since Ms G 
raised this complaint, Natwest has given Ms G a single dedicated contact number to call, 
which she is very pleased with. 
I understand Ms G felt uncomfortable having to explain the cognitive difficulties she faces. 
Its not clear when Ms G became aware of when Natwest had copied only one side of the 
card: whether this was while she was visiting the branch  or at a later date. 
I do think its reasonable for a customer to let a bank know of any disability so that it can put 
steps in place to provide support. So I can appreciate the frustration Ms G must have 
experienced when she provided her disability card to NatWest, to ensure it had the 
information it required to understand her disability - and NatWest didnt take the appropriate 
level of care to ensure it had the necessary information on file. Especially given the fact Ms 
G finds it difficult to discuss her disability. I agree that more care should have been taken at 
this point by NatWest. However, I am satisfied that Natwest acknowledged its poor service in 
its reply dated 13 January 2020 to her complaint in September 2019 where it offered Ms G 
£150 compensation for the poor service she received. 
Having considered the impact Ms G experienced, I feel £150 is fair and reasonable (despite 
Ms G explaining she didnt want to be compensated for the error) and in line with what I 
would have suggested if NatWest hadnt already done so. I say this because, while it did 
cause Ms G further issues, inconvenience and a degree of distress, I think its reasonable for 
a customer to let a bank know of any disability so that it can put steps in place to provide 
support. I can see feedback has been provided and NatWest has explained what 
precautions and measures it is putting in place to prevent this from happening in future. 
I can understand why Ms G would have preferred for Natwest to have given her a courtesy 
call when it received her letter  but I cant criticise it for not doing so. I think it correctly 
passed Ms Gs concerns to the department which deals with a customers expression of 
dissatisfaction. And here, her letter was acknowledged by Natwest.
Ms G is unhappy with the way her complaint was dealt with and the delays caused as she 
didnt receive a reply until January 2020. As our investigator explained, this service isnt able 
to look at all complaints brought to us. We are able to look at complaints which are defined 
as a regulated activity set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. Complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity and so I havent commented on the way her complaint was handled by 
Natwest. 
Natwests offer for Ms G to bring somebody to an appointmentMs G provided a copy of a letter she received from NatWest in January 2020 ahead of an 
appointment at a branch. Natwest acknowledged Ms Gs preference for a morning 
appointment. Natwest wrote:
..to ensure our staff are aware of the disabilities you have; so that they take their time and 
ensure you fully understand the information being provided. I would also suggest if possible, 
you take a third party with you to any appointments; this can be a family or a friend.
I understand Ms G was unhappy with this comment in Natwests letter. I think Natwests 
suggestion for Ms G to bring somebody with her was with the intention of providing 
additional support and choices for Ms G. I cant say that Natwest acted unreasonably toward 
Ms G by making this suggestion.
Communication
When Ms G discovered that  having had her jewellery revalued  her contents insurer 
wasnt able to continue to provide cover. As a result, Ms G spent time speaking to several 
advisors at Natwest by phone. This was difficult and challenging for Ms G and she wanted to 
have a single point of contact. 
Natwest explained that it wasnt possible to assign a single point of contact  but that it had 
made sure its notes reflected how its agents should communicate with Ms G when she 
called to take into account her needs. Natwest said it believed it could provide a better 
service to Ms G by having an agent respond to her query at the time, rather than wait for a 
particular agent who might be out of the office or unavailable to respond  and cause a 
delay. 
Natwest introduced Ms G to the insurer of her home contents policy a number of years ago.  
I appreciate that Ms G is unhappy that Natwest wasnt able to help with her home contents 
insurance policy when it became apparent that she was underinsured. As a result, Ms Gs 
insurer said it would no longer be able to provide insurance at renewal in 2019. 
But I think Natwest did try to help. Natwest explained to Ms G that it couldnt overrule any 
decision made by the underwriter of the policy not to provide insurance cover for Ms G. This 
is something each underwriter decides depending on their appetite for risk and is outside of 
NatWests control. I understand Ms G contacted the underwriter to raise a complaint with 
them. And I can see that Natwest passed Ms Gs concerns directly to the underwriter on her 
behalf. Natwest provided Ms G with details of an alternative policy with an insurer - but Ms G 
was unhappy with the cost. Natwest explained to Ms G that she could look for alternative 
insurance independently. 
I know Ms G wanted Natwest to deal with her concerns around no longer having contents 
insurance cover. But I think Natwest acted reasonably in passing Ms Gs concerns to the 
correct business and offering alternative cover. 
I think Natwest tried to assist Ms G. It updated its records to make all agents aware of Ms 
Gs communication preferences. I think it has acted reasonably in ensuring it provides Ms G 
with a tailored service to meet her communication needs. 
What Natwest did to resolve Ms Gs complaints
Natwest offered Ms G £150 for providing a poor service when it failed to copy both sides of 
her injury card when she brought it to her local branch  and for failing to respond to her 
concerns as quickly as it should have between September 2019 and January 2020. Although 
it had promptly updated its records to no longer send Ms G marketing material, it didnt explain that this would take a couple of months to happen. So Ms G was understandably 
upset when she continued to receive marketing material after shed asked Natwest not to 
send any. 
Ms G has told us that a compensation award isnt what she wants  but for Natwest to 
properly understand her needs and meet them when she is in contact with them. 
When things go wrong, we look at what a business did to put things right. While I realise Ms 
G would prefer not to receive a monetary compensation award, I think Natwest has made a 
fair offer to put things right. I think the compensation offer of £150 is reasonable to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience its poor service caused Ms G. 
I cant comment on whether Ms G was discriminated against as its outside this services 
jurisdictional remit and only a court of law can make a finding like that. However, I can 
consider whether I think NatWest has treated Ms G fairly and reasonably. In this instance, I 
agree NatWest could have, at times taken more care to ensure it had the information it 
required to understand Ms Gs disability. But NatWest has acknowledged this and made an 
award. And while I realised Ms G will be very disappointed, this is in line with what I would 
have recommended. As such, I wont be asking NatWest to anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ms G 
can let Natwest know if she wishes to accept their offer of compensation of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman