DRN-1514171
The complaint
Mr G complains about a guarantor loan provided to him by TFS Loans Limited (TFS) which 
he says was unaffordable. 
What happened
TFS provided Mr G with a loan of £10,000 on 12 January 2018. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if he failed to make his repayments. The 
interest rate was 21.9% (39.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 60 monthly repayments 
of £349. If Mr G made each payment when it was due, hed pay £20,940 in total. The loan 
hasnt yet been repaid.
Mr G said that at the time of taking out this loan he was in a terrible cycle of debt and was 
heavily reliant on high interest short term loans as well as guarantor loans. Mr G was in a 
desperate situation and was dependant on such credit to get through each month. He would 
have expected TFS, given the value of the loan and his very obvious dependency on high 
interest credit, to scrutinise his income, outgoings and current debt much more closely. TFS 
would have seen from his credit report that he was in a great deal of debt and his records 
showed a number of late payments and defaults. Mr G was never asked to provide any 
supporting documentation (such as bank statements) which again would have easily 
highlighted his ever growing debt problem. He would borrow from one lender to pay the next 
and would repeat this on a weekly/monthly basis. Mr G said that the continual stress and 
worry as to how he would meet the repayment obligations has been awful. With a family 
member acting as a guarantor (who would not have been able to afford the repayments had 
he defaulted) he always made sure he had enough to meet the repayment to TFS at 
whatever cost (i.e. borrowing from elsewhere - other loans, friends or family) and cutting 
back on essential living.
In its final response letter, TFS concluded that it wasnt upholding Mr Gs complaint. It 
provided details about the information provided to it by Mr G. The lender said that it had 
assessed the affordability of the loan using the information Mr G had provided to it and the 
information on his credit file and it had no reason to believe that the loan was not affordable 
for Mr G. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said that 
TFS should have carried out better checks and that proportionate checks in this case 
wouldve included TFS requesting evidence to verify the figures Mr G provided to it. The 
adjudicator had reviewed Mr Gs bank statements to see what better checks would have 
suggested. She noted that Mr Gs income was a little over £3,400 and that he had regular 
total expenses of £1,877. He was also borrowing from short term lenders and his statements 
showed a significant number of gambling transactions. The adjudicator concluded that TFS 
should have known from better checks that further lending was unlikely to be sustainable for 
Mr G. So, TFS shouldnt have agreed to lend Mr G this loan.
TFS responded to ask for confirmation of Mr Gs income from October to December 2017 
and for a breakdown of Mr Gs regular expenses. 
The adjudicator responded to say that Mr Gs income for November 2017 was £3,429 and 
his income for December 2017 was also £3,429. Mr G's living costs which included rent, 
utilities, food and transportation was around £1,000. His regular monthly commitments 
included loans that he held at the time as well as credit card payments.
TFS responded to ask for a breakdown of these figures which the adjudicator provided. After 
reviewing this, the lender said that it was clear that based on Mr G's income and his regular 
commitments and living costs, that its loan was affordable to him. It said that gambling 
related activities, was a "discretionary expense", which could be reduced. TFS noted that 
Mr G had never missed a payment on his account in the two years he had been a customer 
and it believed this further demonstrated that Mr G was able to manage his discretionary 
expenditure. Mr G hadnt disclosed the amount he was spending on gambling related 
activities, so this could not be included within its underwriting or affordability assessment.
TFS also said that it had verified Mr Gs net monthly income using an income verification 
product from a credit reference agency. It also said that the adjudicator had referred to       
Mr G having over £24,000 in outstanding credit. This wasnt correct as it didnt allow for the 
fact that an existing loan was to be repaid with its loan and that another account was 
showing the full balance payable over the full term, including future interest, rather than the 
true capital balance.
Mr G responded to say that if TFS had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, he 
is sure they would have seen the terrible financial position that he was in, and the level of his 
gambling at the time.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When TFS lent to Mr G the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Mr G could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr G. So even in this case 
where Mr G had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if he couldnt, this didnt 
absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Mr G could meet his repayments without 
undue difficulty.
In general, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been 
more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Gs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
- Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
As set out above, TFS gathered some information from Mr G about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Mr G declared his monthly income as £5,870 and his total regular monthly expenditure 
(including TFSs loan repayment of £349) was shown as £2,562.10. Mr G had declared his 
existing loan repayments as £747.  Mr G also said that he was single with no dependents 
and didnt have a car. He said that he wanted to use the loan for debt consolidation to 
reduce the interest he was paying on another guarantor loan. The balance on that loan was 
£9,180 and he was paying £427 a month on that loan. He was also using TFSs loan to 
contribute around £1,500 towards repairing a leak in the roof of his rented property. TFS 
calculated Mr Gs disposable income as £3,307.90 after the loan repayment.
Ive also reviewed TFSs credit report. TFS would have been aware from this that Mr G had 
a total credit balance of £25,876 outstanding. The report showed that Mr G had three 
defaulted accounts. These were all defaulted in 2012. Two had been repaid but one account 
for £375 remained unpaid. I dont think these defaults ought to have caused TFS additional 
concerns in view of their age. And I dont think it was unreasonable for TFS to be more 
interested in Mr Gs more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the 
loan was affordable.
The credit report also showed that Mr G had 18 active accounts. I note that Mr G had 
borrowed two high cost credit loans in around the past six months totalling around £24,600. 
In addition, in the eight months prior to taking out TFSs loan hed borrowed six loans which 
appeared to be short term loans, although they were not described as such. Most of these 
had been taken out very shortly after repaying the previous one.  This suggests that Mr G 
needed to borrow in order to fill a hole in his finances that was made by making a loan 
repayment which isnt a sustainable form of borrowing. Mr G had also taken out a credit card around three months previously and had made two cash advances totalling £341 around two 
months previously. 
I think the amount and extent of Mr Gs recent borrowing ought to have caused TFS 
concerns. I also think it might have been concerned as to why someone with such a large 
proportion of available income (according to his declared income and expenses) would need 
to borrow so much expensive credit so recently. And, I think TFS ought to have been 
concerned about Mr Gs ability to repay its loan out of his usual means, without borrowing, 
as it didnt appear he was managing to do so with his existing debt. 
I also dont think TFS treated Mr G fairly when it agreed to lend to him based on the 
information it would have seen on its credit checks because this showed it was likely that 
agreeing more credit for him would simply add to his debt levels, notwithstanding that Mr G 
had said that TFSs loan was being used to repay an outstanding loan. And given the 
amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I think TFS 
should reasonably have taken steps to build a clearer picture about Mr Gs finances before 
lending to him in order to satisfy itself that Mr G could sustainably repay the loan over a 60 
months period.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did TFS make a 
fair lending decision when it provided Mr G with a loan? 
Even though I think that TFS shouldve carried out better checks at the time, it doesnt 
automatically follow that TFS was wrong to provide Mr G with a loan.
Mr G has provided us with his credit report and his bank statements at the time he applied 
for this loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that TFS should have done. 
But I think looking at these gives me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. 
Had it sought some verification of Mr Gs spending, I think TFS wouldve been in a better 
position to understand Mr Gs financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
I note that TFS said that it had verified Mr Gs income with a credit reference agency. But his 
bank statements show that his monthly income was around £3,430 and so substantially less 
than hed declared to TFS.
Ive also seen on the credit report and bank statements that in the two weeks prior to 
borrowing TFSs loan, Mr G had taken out four short term loans totalling £3,100. Hed repaid 
eight short term loans in the previous three weeks. He also had another high cost credit loan 
for £5,000 which hed taken out four months earlier. This suggests that he was reliant on 
short term lending and other high cost credit. As Mr G was borrowing a significant amount of 
short term loans each month just to fund his existing expenditure and credit commitments, I 
think there was a very real prospect that Mr G would need to borrow again in order to repay 
his new loan and that would likely have a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
In addition to this, Mr G had spent more than his income (around £4,130) on gambling in the 
month prior to TFSs loan.  His spending on gambling was frequent enough throughout that 
month that it was more likely than not that it would continue in the same pattern and posed a 
risk to Mr G being able to repay the loan sustainably. In these circumstances, I dont think 
that TFS would have lent if it knew this, and I think it ought to have known this if it had made 
better checks. And in these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable for TFS to conclude 
that Mr G could simply reduce his gambling expenditure to allow him to afford the loan 
repayments.
So, I think if TFS had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely 
it would have discovered Mr Gs relatively substantial expenditure on gambling and the full extent of Mr Gs financial commitments. I think TFS should reasonably have realised that   
Mr G was over committed financially and that he was having difficulty managing his finances. 
So, its clear that further checks wouldnt have provided the assurance TFS needed.
I think TFS ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr G wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay his loan. So, it should reasonably have concluded that it treated  
Mr G unfairly when it agreed to lend to him. So, I think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld, 
and that TFS should put things right as follows: 
Putting things right 
TFS should put things right for Mr G as follows.
- TFS needs to ensure that Mr G only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In 
other words, he should not pay any interest or charges for this loan. So, TFS 
should remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the account from when it 
was opened.
- Treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan.
- If this results in Mr G having made overpayments, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
- If an outstanding principal balance remains then TFS should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr G, bearing in mind its obligation to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
- Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file as a result of the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give  
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If TFS intends 
to use the refunds to reduce an amount Mr G owes, it must do this after tax.
   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I  
order TFS Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman