DRN-3334968
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the outcome of her complaint, following a claim against Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for 
some allegedly mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
Miss L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). The parties are 
familiar with the background to this complaint, so I dont intend to set it out in detail here. In 
summary, Miss L bought a solar panel system from a supplier, C, that she says told her the 
panels would be self-funding. Theres been conflicting evidence over what period C told Miss 
L that the panels would pay for themselves. The CMC has now accepted that it was likely to 
have been 10 years, not the five years that it originally said to Tesco.
Tesco didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint as it didnt think there was sufficient evidence that C 
had made any misrepresentations. Our investigator also didnt think Miss Ls complaint 
should be upheld. His investigation concluded that the period Miss L was told was more 
likely than not 10 years. And hed calculated that the panels would be self-funding in just 
over 11 years. Given the performance of solar panel systems is variable  and depends on 
the weather - he thought this was within a reasonable margin of error. So, Miss L had not 
suffered a loss. The panels had performed in accordance with the representations made.
The CMC didnt agree and said that if the panels didnt repay for themselves in anything less 
than 10 years, then Miss L was due a refund, however small. As no agreement could be 
reached, the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss L but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Our investigator has set out his reasons for not upholding this complaint in his 
correspondence with the CMC, most of which I agree with. So, I wont be setting that out in 
detail again in this decision. Suffice to say, I too have found that the representation made 
was that the panels would pay for themselves over 10 years. That was the length of the loan 
that Miss L was going to take out before she decided to pay for the panels on her Tesco 
credit card, with the balance in cash.
The CMC has accepted that if the panels are to be self-funding within 10 years, then Tesco 
has no liability under Section 75 of the Act. It also doesnt appear to have pursued the unfair 
relationship arguments that it originally raised in its claim to Tesco under Section 140A of the 
Act. For the avoidance of doubt though, I havent found there to be any unfair relationship 
here.
Ive calculated the benefit of the panels to Miss L. But unlike our investigator, I do think the 
panels will pay for themselves within the 10-year period that C told Miss L  9 years and 9 
months to be precise. The performance of the panels has been greater than was predicted 
by C, as well as that which was stated on the MCS certificate  3,284 kWh a year. By my 
calculation, based on the Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) statements, the average yearly generation was 
3,778 kWh. And Miss L got FIT and export payments of £637 in return.
Using the same assumptions as our investigator, to which the CMC hasnt objected, if Miss L 
used 37% of the electricity generated and paid 18 pence per kWh, she will have saved 
£251.61 in the first year. So that means if the performance and consumption remain similar, 
the £8,659 cost of the panels will be self-funded in 9.74 years.
C predicted that Miss L would receive an income of £844 a year from the panels. In that first 
year, using the above assumptions, she made just over £888. So, Cs predictions were 
pretty much right. As I dont have Miss Ls electricity bills, those assumptions might of course 
not be entirely correct. And she could have used more or less than what Ive predicted, 
depending on how much time she spends at home during the day and hence how much 
electricity she uses whilst the panels are generating. But in the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, the assumptions Ive used here arent, I think, unreasonable.
Its also important to remember that the 18 pence a unit of electricity that Ive used could 
now be quite an under-estimate. Electricity prices have been soaring of late. And in April this 
year, the energy price cap is increasing to 28 pence a unit from the current 21p. So, Miss Ls 
savings going forward could be even higher. 
Miss L should benefit from these panels and the FIT payments for many years to come. FIT 
is paid for 20 years and the panels are generally expected to last for at least 25 years. There 
may be some slight degradation in performance over time, which I note the CMC says Miss 
L wasnt told about at the time. But if true, I dont consider this to be an omission that would 
likely have resulted in Miss L not going ahead with the purchase anyway.
The CMC has also said that theres no evidence that Miss L has the 10-year warranty that 
she was told shed get on the solar inverter. But I havent been told that anything has gone 
wrong with the inverter yet that would require a claim to be made on a warranty. C is now in 
liquidation. So, if there are any problems with the inverter in due course, then thats 
something that Miss L will have to raise with Tesco at the time. Theres not sufficient 
evidence here for me to find that C misrepresented any warranty to Miss L. 
In summary, therefore, Ive not found that Miss L has suffered any loss here for which I could 
require that Tesco compensate her. The panels appear likely to pay for themselves within 10 
years - as C said they would. And Ive found no other reason why the complaint should be 
upheld.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman