DRN-3252781
The complaint
The executor, Mrs R on behalf of the estate of Mr P, complains that West End Garage 
(Honda) Limited (West End Garage) irresponsibly approved a hire purchase agreement for 
Mr P.
What happened
The late Mr P had been a customer of West End Garage for over 20 years. In July 2019, he 
acquired a brand-new car with a hire purchase agreement. The cash price of the car was 
£38,404 and Mr P traded in his then current vehicle as a deposit, for a sum of £11,000 as 
well as a £3,000 deposit contribution, giving a total deposit of £14,000. Mr P was to make 37 
monthly repayments of £263.02 and a final payment of £18,795.43.
Sadly, Mr P died in February 2020. Mrs R as his executor, spoke with the garage as the 
vehicle has been left as a legacy in Mr Ps will. The garage met with Mrs R and agreed to 
buy back the vehicle. A settlement figure was reached, the finance settled, and the balance 
paid to the estate via the solicitors.
Mrs R then raised a complaint as the executor of the estate. She said she felt the finance 
agreement had been mis-sold and/or mis represented to Mr P. She said he was vulnerable 
and would never have entered into such an agreement if he had realised the amount of 
interest he would have had to pay. He would simply have paid cash for the car. She also 
says West End Garage was aware the vehicle would have been a legacy in his will, and as a 
result of the finance the legacy failed. She further complained that West End Garage 
disclosed details of the settlement to a third party and in doing so breached its 
responsibilities under GDPR.  Although the vehicle has been returned and a settlement 
figure reached, Mrs R asks to be compensated for the failure of the legacy.
West End Garage refutes all of the points raised in complaint by Mrs R. It says it had dealt 
with Mr P as a customer for over 20 years. Although elderly he did not present as vulnerable 
and he had previously held exactly the same car finance arrangement on another vehicle. It 
met with Mrs R and reached a settlement figure in good faith and only after doing so does it 
say Mrs R raised any complaint about the way I which it dealt with Mr P.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs R. He didnt find any evidence that Mr P was 
vulnerable or that West End Garage had any reasons to suspect he was vulnerable. He also 
looked at a previous finance agreement Mr P entered into which was very similar to this 
agreement and as such he wasnt persuaded Mr P had no experience of finance agreements 
or that he wouldnt have understood the agreement. With regards to the legacy, he found 
there was nothing to prevent Mr P leaving the vehicle as a legacy and it wasnt West End 
Garages role or responsibility to give any legal advice on such a decision. Taking all this into 
account the investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs R disagreed. She said she feels strongly that West Garage took advantage of an elderly 
gentleman and provided unsuitable finance agreements resulting in Mr P paying thousands 
of pounds of interest unnecessarily. She does not seek compensation but asks for West End 
Garage and Honda Finance to be held accountable for what she sees as unfair practice. She 
feels in failing to uphold this complaint the financial ombudsman service has failed in its 
remit to protect customers. She asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information afresh and Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R. Please allow me to 
explain why.
Firstly, may I offer my condolences on the loss of Mr P. I can understand this is a difficult 
time. Mrs R has provided a copy of Mr Ps will and I can see he wished to leave any car he 
may own to his grandson. So, it is entirely understandable that they would have hoped this 
would be a legacy without issue.
In deciding this complaint, Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs R and by West End Garage. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority nor is it to act as a consumer champion. This service is an alternative to the courts, 
it looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer (or their representative) and a 
business.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
In order to find that theres been a mis-sale, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a 
misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a 
consumer to enter into a contract and Im afraid I havent found any evidence to suggest this 
was the case.
I have looked carefully at the agreement Mr P entered into. Whilst I accept, he was elderly, 
he had a relationship with West End Garage and had previously entered into another very 
similar agreement. In terms of vulnerability, the definition isnt confined to just have an 
existing condition such as dementia but equally vulnerability isnt presumed just because of 
age alone. So, I can see Mr P had experience of a similar arrangement, he may well have 
had the cash to buy the vehicle previously but chose a finance agreement instead, that isnt unusual or a necessary indicator that he didnt understand the agreement. It seems to be a 
choice he had made previously and decided upon again on this occasion.
Im aware that Mr P made large payments towards the vehicle finance effectively overpaying 
it considerably. But as Mrs R points out he had the cash to do so and wasnt penalised for 
doing so. There could have been a multitude of reasons behind the decision to overpay but 
theres no evidence available in the file to say why he chose to take that course of action or 
that he didnt understand the terms of the agreement.
In terms of the legacy, it also wouldnt have prevented him from leaving the vehicle as a 
legacy in his will, but again there is no evidence to show this was discussed prior to the sale. 
Even if it had been, it wasnt West End Garages responsibility to give legal advice to Mr P, 
he would have needed to seek legal advice.
Similarly, when Mrs R asked for West End Garage to buy the vehicle back and settle the 
finance providing the balance to the estate, that was a decision she should have sought 
legal advice on prior to doing so. In my view, it isnt fair or reasonable to assign that 
responsibility to West End Garage.
West End Garage has accepted it disclosed information inadvertently to a third party. It says 
the individual identified themselves as a solicitor and it assumed this was in connection with 
the estate. This was clearly an error and it should have checked the identity of the caller and 
its authority to act for the estate, but I agree with the investigator in that I dont think this 
warrants compensation to Mrs R. I also havent seen any evidence that the disclosure of the 
settlement figure caused Mr Ps estate a financial loss. Indeed, the balance after settlement 
was paid to the estate as I understand it, so I cant make a compensatory award to the 
estate.
I appreciate this was not the outcome Mrs R hoped for, but after considering all the available 
evidence Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman