DRN-2519684
The complaint
Mr S complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limited (Cabot) had harassed him in pursuit of payment of a debt, that he believes 
it has proved its the legal owner of.
What happened
In November 2006 Mr S took out a loan with a company I'll call L for the purposes of this 
decision. As repayments of this loan were not maintained a default notice was applied to the 
accounts in November 2009.  At some point L appointed a debt recovery agent (DR) to work 
with Mr S on its behalf. A payment arrangement of £2 per month was agreed on.
In February 2017 L sold the outstanding debt of £4514.29 to Cabot, with Cabot taking over 
all responsibility for the debt from 24 March 2017. L sent Mr S a Notice of Assignment (NOA) 
letter on 24 of March 2017 letting him know that Cabot now owned the debt. Cabot also sent 
Mr S a NOA letter on 27 March 2017 letting him know that the existing payment arrangement 
he had in place with DR would continue and that DR would still be managing the debt on its 
behalf.
In January 2020 Cabot wrote to Mr S to let him know it would be taking back the 
management of his account from DR. In the letter it confirmed it was happy to keep the 
current arrangement in place but asked Mr S to contact it so that it could set the payments 
up be paid directly to Cabot instead of DR.
From this point Mr S disputed the debt is owned by Cabot, hello and has asked it to provide 
him with proof of its ownership. Cabot provided Mr S with a copy of the signed credit 
agreement for the original loan along with a statement of accounts and terms and conditions.
Mr S remained of the opinion that this didn't prove Cabot's ownership of the debt and asked 
it to provide him with a copy of the deed of assignment (DOA). In its final response Cabot 
declined to do this explaining to Mr S that the DOA contained commercially sensitive 
information and it had no obligation to provide it to him.
Aside from proving the legal ownership of the debt Mr S also asked Cabot to stop contacting 
him regarding it and asked them to remove all phone numbers, it holds for him, from its 
records.
Cabot confirmed Mr S' phone numbers had been removed from its dialling system and that it 
would contact him on his preferred method of email, where it could, when updating him 
about his account. It also said, should it not be able to contact him via his preferred method it 
reserved the right to reinstate the use of his phone numbers as it had a legitimate reason to 
contact him.
Mr S felt this was unreasonable and Cabot pursuing him was causing undue stress and 
worry and this was detrimental to his mental health and amounted to harassment. So, he 
brought his complaint to our service  in that complaint he said he would be prepared to set 
up a payment plan with Cabot if it shows it owns the debt. 
The investigator didn't uphold Mr S' complaint, in summary he said:
Cabot didn't need to provide the DOA as it was only obliged to provide the 
documents it had already, and so was satisfied owned the debt and Mr L owes it.
Cabot hasn't acted unreasonably in pursuing Mr S for the debt.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator's findings, he felt the investigator had focused his 
findings only on the legality of the debt, but for him the complaint was more about the 
harassment he had experienced from Cabot. The matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, 
I have to let Mr S know that I've reached the same outcome here as the investigator and a 
broadly the same reasons, I'll explain.
Before I go into the specific details of Mr S' complaint I think it would be useful here to point 
out there are rules and guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that Cabot 
have to follow here. Those rules are called I have considered the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) and can be found on the FCA website.
As I see it there are two issues for me to consider here, firstly does Cabot legitimately own 
the debt and if so, does Mr S owe it. Secondly, do I consider Cabot's actions in contacting 
and pursuing Mr S for the debt harassment. 
Ownership of the debt:
I understand Mr S believes that in order for Cabot to show it legitimately owns the debt, for 
the loan Mr S took from L in 2006, it needs to provide him with the DOA. But CONC says 
that when a lender in this case L sells a debt to another firm in this case Cabot the customer 
in this case Mr S must be given notice of the assignment as soon as reasonably possible.
Cabot has provided copies of the NOA's sent to Mr S from L on 24 March 2017 and from 
Cabot itself on 27 March 2017, as such I'm satisfied it complied with this rule, to show it is 
now the legal owner of the debt.
The DOA document is an agreement between L and Cabot that likely contains commercially 
sensitive information, so while I understand Mr S' desire to see the document I don't believe 
it's something Cabot need to share with him in order to prove it owns the debt.
Mr S has never disputed taking the loan with L, and until January 2020 had a repayment 
agreement of £2 per month which he was maintaining and has said he would rearrange if 
Cabot proved its ownership. So, it follows I'm satisfied Mr S owes the debt and that Cabot 
own it and have the right to pursue it.
Harassment:As Cabot owns the debt, as established above, and so has a legitimate reason to make 
contact with Mr S regarding it.  CONC 7.4.1 says a firm must provide the customer with 
information on the amount of any arrears and the balance owing on a debt. Given this I think 
it is reasonable to expect that Cabot will have to contact Mr S regarding this debt, despite 
him not wanting it to. But it must do so in a reasonable manner, without applying undue 
pressure to him.
With this in mind Ive considered the contact that Cabot has made with Mr S since it 
purchased the debt from L in 2017.
Cabots first contact with Mr S was the notice of assignment letter it sent on 27 March 2017, 
it never made any further contact with Mr S until January 2020 as the account was being
managed by DR.
When it decided to bring the account back in the house it wrote to Mr S on 10 January 2020 
asking him to make contact so that you could arrange for payments to now be made directly 
to it. Aside from these two documents I haven't seen any other correspondence in regard to 
Cabot pursuing Mr S for the debt. 
There has been correspondence back and forth between Cabot and Mr S regarding a 
subject access request that he made. As well as correspondence regarding proof of 
ownership and the subsequent service complaints that Mr S made. When Mr S brought his 
complaint to this service, he made Cabot aware and they placed a hold on his account for 60 
days. the end of that 60 days it wrote to him again letting him know it had yet to receive 
contact from this service, it asked him to provide evidence that the matter was being looked 
into. It placed a hold on the account for a further 30 days. It has since extended the hold until 
my final decision is issued.
Cabot has confirmed it has not added Mr S phone numbers back to its dialling system and 
will continue to communicate with him via email where possible as he has requested.
Mr S has said he is found contact with Cabot stressful and worrying and detrimental to his 
health, I've seen evidence that Cabot has let Mr S know that it has a sensitive support team 
that specialises in helping customers that are experiencing difficulties with their health 
finances.
Take into account all of the above, I can't fairly say that the contact from Cabot has been 
unreasonable, excessive or that Cabot has applied any undue pressure to Mr S. And while I 
recognise that being in a financially difficult position is stressful, and possibly more so for Mr 
S due to his own health, I can't say has done anything wrong here in pursuing Mr S for the 
debt. In order to help Mr S with this, I would suggest he makes use of Cabots sensitive 
support team in finding a way forward.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Cabot can do for him.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman