DRN-3602984
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In February 2015, Mrs G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mrs G decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In February 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Gs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs G to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding, because the benefits through feed-in tariff income 
and electricity bill savings would cover not only the purchase price but also the 
finance costs. 
The CMC also said Mrs G was in a debt management plan at the time she purchased the 
system and applied for the loan. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs G or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mrs G and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mrs G was told the system would be self-funding and she relied on this information in 
deciding to proceed with the purchase. 
She was in a debt management plan and would not have been looking to increase 
her outgoings. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs G could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs G and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs G says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these , along with Mrs Gs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mrs Gs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.On balance Im satisfied that Mrs G was told that the cost of the system was £9,350.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,350.00. The monthly payment was £101.35. The total 
amount of credit is £9,350.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£18,243.00.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mrs Gs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,350.00, it would 
cost Mrs G more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mrs G has said that she was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the Mrs Gs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to 
decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs G could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs G could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £461.95, which results in an average monthly income of £38.49. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £101.35. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs G could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £221.10 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs G the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£911.05. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for part of the 
year.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs G entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £101.34. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £101.34, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs G could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mrs G wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mrs Gs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs G that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs G was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mrs G could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs G that the system would pay for itself by 
year 14, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs G. I have looked at Mrs Gs FIT statements and Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mrs G hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2004 to 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs G 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs G entered into the 
contract.
Ive thought about what the CMC has said about Mrs G being in a debt management plan. 
But Mrs G has not provided anything to evidence this beyond her testimony. Shawbrook did 
a credit check at the time of the loan application. It noted some historic financial difficulties, 
but it did not appear that Mrs G was in a debt management plan at the time and Shawbrook 
had no concerns about the affordability of the loan for Mrs G at that time. So, it appears that 
Mrs G was no longer in a debt management plan when she purchased the solar panel 
system. It may be that she is recalling a debt management plan that had been completed 
sometime before she applied for the Shawbrook loan. So, I dont think this is relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs G to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman