DRN-1713770
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Financial Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Mr M says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
Background
We now know that Mr M took out 3 so called payday loans from Mr Lender between April 
2012 and January 2014. We also know that he was allowed to roll-over some of the debts 
which typically involves paying a fee to extend the timescale over which the loan is 
repayable and accruing more interest. 
Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Ms borrowing with Mr Lender, based on the information it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of where loan number 1 was rolled-over for the fourth time  and all lending 
after that point. Mr Lender made an offer to otherwise settle the complaint, but this wasnt 
agreed to by Mr M so Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Ms 
complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
M could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan(s) being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr M could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M including assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that at the 
time all this information showed that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. Ive thought carefully about this and also looked at the overall pattern of 
lending history with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive 
considered whether, at some point, Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans to Mr M. 
Taking account of what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, Ive 
applied it to the circumstances of loan number 1 being initially granted in April 2012. And I 
dont think its clear enough that what Mr Lender would have seen, from its checks at the 
outset, would have suggested loan 1 was unaffordable for Mr M. 
However, as Ive said, despite this being a short-term product with a defined repayment 
date, I note that Mr M quite quickly asked for more time to repay the original - or principle -
loan by rolling it over. This involved him paying a fee to defer paying it off and therefore 
incurring more interest, because the principal loan was outstanding for a longer period. In all 
he asked for this to happen on 11 occasions which means the fees and charges he paid 
amounted to a considerable sum and he was failing to make any real progress in actually 
paying the principal loan off. In short, it meant that a loan designed to be repaid over the 
short-term was extended out, so that it took Mr M a year to completely pay it off. 
Ive taken into account that rolling over loans can be a way for consumers to get their 
finances in order and to make the borrowing flexibly fit their circumstances. But I think from 
the point of roll-over number 4, it should have been obvious to Mr Lender that this consumer 
was experiencing financial difficulties. Theres no evidence Mr Lender did anything different 
to check whether this was the case and I think this lack of diligence contributed further to Mr 
Ms money problems by adding substantial fees and charges. Our experience of short-term 
lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty managing their money in this way are 
less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan. With this information, I dont think Mr 
Lender ought to have permitted him the fourth roll-over or indeed any loans from that point 
on. It wasnt responsible to do so.
By loan number 2 onwards, Mr Lender should have been well aware of Mr Ms financial 
difficulties and he was, in this second case, asking to borrow an even higher amount than for 
his first loan which he obviously had struggled to pay back. For these reasons Mr Lender 
shouldnt have lent him any more money from this point onwards. And in addition to this, 
from the point of loan number 3, there was a clear pattern of repeated lending evident in my view and an obvious dependency on high-interest, short-term lending evidenced by this, Mr 
Ms third continuous loan, without a meaningful break, over some 21 months. So Im also 
upholding Mr Ms complaint in respect of loan 3 as Mr Lender repeatedly lent to Mr M in an 
unsustainable manner because:
this loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; 
and
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for the consumer, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid from the point of loan 1 (at the fourth roll-
over) -to- loan number 3 inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3* and treat any payments 
Mr M made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ms loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr M effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Mr Lender should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
if reworking Mr Ms loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Mr Lender can use the total refund for any other outstanding loans to offset this. And 
if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind Mr Lender that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr M for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans 1 
and 2;
the number of loans taken from loan 3 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about loan 3 should be completely removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
If any of the debts were sold then Mr Lender must attempt buy back the debt or 
otherwise ensure the above is strictly complied with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. *Loan 3 appears 
outstanding.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint and I direct PDL Financial Limited to put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision 17 July 2020.
 
Appendix 
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments at 
outsetOriginal 
Loan 
AmountRollovers
1 10/04/2012 03/04/2013 1 £350.00 11
2 08/04/2013 31/01/2014 1 £450.00 7
3 31/01/2014 Outstanding 1 £700.00 1
 
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman