DRN-2405786
The complaint
Mr C complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) provided him with a loan which he 
says was unaffordable.
What happened
TFS provided Mr C with a loan as follows:
Loan No: Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 09/01/2019 £8,500 60 months £296.65
Mr C complained that the loan was unaffordable and he felt that TFS would have realised 
this if it had checked properly before providing the loan. He told us that he was in a spiral of 
debt and that he wasnt making sensible financial decisions when he took out this loan as 
he was in the grip of debt problems and borrowing to pay his existing debt. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and she set 
out the steps she said TFS should take to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that during the application 
process it had no indication that the information Mr C was providing was inaccurate and it 
invited our investigator to listen to the conversation it had with Mr C regarding the defaults 
shown on his credit report and his financial situation generally. After doing this, our 
investigator said this hadnt changed her view and so TFS has requested an ombudsman 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator and Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did TFS then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
TFS asked Mr C about his income and expenditure. TFS did a check to verify Mr Cs income 
and was satisfied that he had been receiving his declared income of £2,600.00 into his bank 
account on a regular basis. 
After asking about expenditure and allowing for the monthly repayment he would be making 
for this loan, and also adding a buffer of £125 to cover any unforeseen spending or 
reduction in income, TFS worked out that Mr C would have disposable income of £58.20.
I've taken into account what TFS has said about how it calculated Mr Cs disposable 
income before it agreed to lend to him  and I've carefully listened to the call recording 
when it asked Mr C about his spending. And, like the investigator, I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr C based on the information it had 
gathered.
I say this because when I look through the credit search TFS carried out for this loan, I 
can see that it shows Mr C was already having serious problems managing his 
finances. TFS saw that Mr C had recent defaults on unsecured loans within the 
previous three months as follows: 
25 Oct 2018  balance £4,651 
Oct 2018 - balance £9,310 
30 Nov 2018 -balance £3,084 
In addition, its credit checks showed he had a defaulted credit card account from May 
2018 with an account balance just under its £1500 credit limit. He had also defaulted 
on an account held with a bank in October 2018  the balance on that account showed 
as £4,651.
There were other older defaults as well but these items are the main ones that I think 
shouldve been of concern to TFS. 
Mr C also had other unsecured loans - including a loan with an outstanding balance of 
£5,636 which he had taken out just a couple of months earlier in November 2018. 
Mr C told TFS that an unsecured loan that he had started in April 2018 should now be 
clear. TFS could also see an overdraft of around £1,600 on another bank account that 
Mr C wasnt really able to tell TFS very much about beyond saying that he had thought 
it was being paid. TFS made allowance for Mr C spending on his defaulted accounts 
and his other loan commitments. But I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about 
what this credit history showed about Mr Cs overall financial situation. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mr C wasnt managing to 
repay his debt  this had resulted in defaulted accounts, showing that he was having 
serious problems managing his finances whilst at the same time he appeared to be 
relying on new credit recently obtained. I think this was enough for TFS to have 
realised that Mr Cs loan application reflected his reliance on this sort of expensive 
credit and it was unlikely that Mr C could repay further credit sustainably without 
experiencing more adverse consequences.
I've carefully listened to the call recording TFS seems to have relied on when making its 
lending decision. Mr C explained his money problems were due to his wife having taken time 
off work. He said she had now returned to paid employment and was earning around £900 
each month so that his future financial situation would be significantly better and he could 
afford this extra borrowing. But I think its fair to say that TFS hadnt seen anything in the 
checks it did or in the information it gathered that showed it could depend on Mr Cs 
assurances about his future finances. I think it was clear that his use of high cost credit and 
some of his money problems pre-dated the period when he said his wife had given up paid 
work. And in any event, the likelihood of Mrs Cs earnings continuing for the next five years 
without interruption seems to me uncertain. 
I dont think, based on what TFS had in front of it, it saw enough to reasonably be satisfied 
that Mr C was going to be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. And in 
making its lending decision, TFS essentially relied on Mr Cs assurances that his 
circumstances were very different to when those problems occurred .. without any 
evidence that this was the case in reality. And I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, the amount borrowed, 
the total repayment and the length of the loan (five years) leads me to think, on balance, that 
TFS should have carried out a complete review of Mr Cs finances and checked what he had 
told it.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr C which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Mr Cs overall financial situation at the time  and Im aware that TFS has 
seen this information also during the course of dealing with this complaint and commented 
on it in its final response letter sent to Mr C. 
I think if TFS had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen the 
information broadly confirming (as it has said) the expenditure information it had gathered 
but nothing to reassure it that this loan was likely to be sustainably affordable over the loan 
term  unless Mr Cs financial situation did indeed improve. 
And despite what Mr C had told TFS to the contrary during the loan application process, TFS 
wouldve likely realised that Mr C was already in a debt management plan when he applied 
for this loan. 
So I dont think TFS shouldve provided this loan. 
As Mr C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. 
So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. With this in mind, TFS should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr C bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons set out above and require TFS Loans Limited to 
put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman