DRN-1600388
The complaint
Ms L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) failed to carry out a full trace and 
access assessment following an escape of water, leading to more water damage the 
following year.
What happened
Ms L had buildings and contents insurance with Ageas. She noticed water damage to her 
kitchen ceiling and reported it to Ageas. The builder working in her home at the time cut a 
hole in the ceiling to trace the leak and found it was coming from the bathroom above.
Ageas sent a Loss Adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage. After completing some tests the LA 
identified that the water was coming through failed sealant around the shower tray. Both the 
LA and Ms Ls builder noted that the joists were rotting because of long term water damage. 
Ageas declined the claim because the damage was caused by wear and tear.
A year later, Ms L experienced another leak coming through the ceiling in the same area. 
She reported it to her new insurer and its LA identified the leak was coming from the shower 
in the bathroom above. A second LA, attending for a separate claim, also looked and both 
LAs agreed that the shower fitting was the cause of the leak. They also noted that the joists 
were so rotten that they had become dangerous. 
Ms Ls new insurer declined her claim for repairs to the joists because the damage had been 
caused over time. When Ms L complained the insurer suggested that she claim against 
Ageas for failing to identify the cause of the leak first time round.
Ms L complained to Ageas, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the evidence supported 
Ageass view that the damage was due to wear and tear and caused over time.
Ms L didnt agree. She said an independent builder who repaired her bathroom floor said the 
rotten joists were caused by water leaking onto them for around two years. The builder also 
said the sealant was in good repair, but the shower fittings had been leaking. Therefore, Ms 
L thinks Ageas failed to properly identify the cause of the leak the previous year.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will disappoint Ms L, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
My understanding of Ms Ls complaint is that she thinks Ageas didnt identify the true cause 
of the first leak in her bathroom. Because it said the leak was due to failed sealant, she 
doesnt think it went far enough to check there was no other cause. When she experienced 
another leak coming through the ceiling in the same place, identified to be from the shower 
fitting, her claim was declined by her new insurer. Its reason for declining was that the water 
damage had been there for a long time and that was evident from the rotten joists. So, Ms L 
thinks that Ageas should cover the cost of repairs now because it didnt do a thorough job 
the year before.
My role here is not to decide whether Ms Ls new insurer should cover her most recent 
claim. Its for me to decide whether Ageas dealt with her first claim fairly. If it did, then any 
subsequent issues Ms L has are not Ageass responsibility. 
Ive looked at the photos of Ms Ls bathroom and the floor underneath the shower tray. Ive 
also considered the views of the LA and the builder who was working at Ms Ls home at the 
time of the first leak, along with Ms Ls own account of events. The evidence tells me that 
tests were carried out which showed that when water was running directly into the shower 
tray there was no leaking below it. This means that the water was running through the 
shower fitting and drains properly and suggests that there was no fault there.
When the shower was directed at the wall, water leaked from underneath the tray and onto 
the joists. That test shows that the water was running down the wall and escaping between 
the tiles and sealant. The LA concluded that the sealant was the cause of the leak and water 
damage to the joists and kitchen ceiling.
Ms Ls policy doesnt cover water damage caused as a result of failed sealant. So, based on 
the tests carried out and in line with the policy, Ageas declined Ms Ls claim. While Ms L 
thinks Ageas didnt complete a full trace and access to identify the cause of the leak, the 
available evidence suggests that it completed appropriate tests and reached a fair 
conclusion. 
I think Ms L believes Ageas made an assumption based on a visual inspection of the sealant 
or limited tests, accepting the first evidence it found as the main cause of the leak. So Ive 
looked at the independent report Ms L provided for the second leak to see whether it 
indicates Ageas failed to deal with the first leak properly. Nothing in the report makes me 
think that.
The report concludes that the sealant was in good repair but the shower fitting was leaking. 
It also says the joists were rotten and the damage had been caused over time. Ms L makes 
the point that because the damage was caused over more than two years, it was clearly a 
continuation of the leak Ageas shouldve dealt with. I agree that the joists wouldve continued 
to rot but that doesnt mean it was from the same source. Both the first and second leak 
came from the wall in the shower area and ran underneath the shower tray to cause water 
damage to the joists and ceiling below. But the first leak was due to water running between 
the failed sealant and the tiles, and the second leak was due to the water running behind the 
wall and under the shower tray because of the faulty shower fitting. The tests carried out by 
each insurer demonstrated this.
The problem Ms L has is that her policy with Ageas didnt cover her for failed sealant. But I 
think its likely that her new insurer doesnt cover her for damage caused over time which 
she was aware of. The joists were damaged over time, Ms L knew that, and I dont think 
thats in dispute. If they had been repaired or replaced after the first leak, then any 
subsequent leak wouldve been causing new damage and may have been covered. But my 
concern here is whether Ageas failed to do something it shouldve done and based on the 
information Ive seen, I dont think it did.I can understand that Ms L must feel frustrated with the situation she is now in, seemingly 
not covered for leaks by either insurer. But in response to her complaint about Ageas, I cant 
reasonably conclude that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman