DRN-3084020
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice given in 2007 by Parker Kelly Financial Services Ltd (Parker 
Kelly) to transfer the value preserved benefits in former employers pension schemes to his 
personal pension plan (PPP). 
What happened
 
In 2007 Parker Kelly advised Mr B to transfer the value of his benefits held in his former 
employers pension schemes to his existing PPP (set up some years earlier on Parker 
Kellys advice). No copy of any recommendation letter has been produced but Ive seen 
other documentation including a letter from Parker Kelly dated 9 November 2007 to Mr B 
which included the following:
TT Group Pension Scheme
With reference to the above, we have now received the revised Transfer values from 
Mercers. Following our analysis of the Critical Yield, we now feel a transfer is viable and
have obtained quotes from a number or providers.
Mr B was asked to contact Parker Kellys adviser. 
Mercer Limited (the administrator of the TT Group (1993) Pension Scheme) had written to 
Parker Kelly on 1 November 2007 (in response to Parker Kellys letter of 2 October 2007) 
with transfer out details, including transfer values of £25,559 and £18,245 guaranteed until 
31 January 2008. 
I understand that Mr B had originally been a member of the Plessey Pension Fund. That 
scheme closed in 1991 and members accrued benefits were transferred to the GEC Plan 
and members joined that Plan for future service benefits. Mr B left the GEC Plan in 
November 1991. The Plan wrote to him on 10 December 1991 with details of his deferred 
pension, based on, in total, eight years pensionable service. Mr B had a further period of 
membership of the GEC Plan/AEI Wire and Cables Pension Plan between 7 April 1993 to 17 
March 2000. 
 
On 26 November 2007 Mr B applied to transfer his deferred benefits to his PPP. A pension 
transfer analysis was completed on 25 January 2008. It showed, amongst other things, the 
critical yield (the annual rate of growth required to provide equivalent benefits to those 
offered by the ceding scheme if the transfer value was invested in a PPP) at normal 
retirement age (NRA) and Mr Bs selected retirement age (SRA) of 60. And the projected 
benefits at NRA and SRA from the ceding scheme and the PPP were compared. There was 
also a comparison of death benefits, before and after retirement. 
In respect of the transfer value of £18,245, the critical yield at NRA was 8.9%. And 10% at 
SRA. At that age the projected yearly pension from the ceding scheme was £1,987, 
compared to a personal pension illustrated to provide £1,312 per year (mid-rate). For the 
transfer value of £25,559, the critical yield at NRA was 7.4% and 8.9% at SRA. The 
projected yearly pension from the ceding scheme was £1,953, compared to a personal 
pension illustrated at £1,495 per year (mid-rate). 
A transfer value of £43,804 was paid by the TT Group (1993) Pension Scheme to Mr Bs 
PPP provider on 29 January 2008. 
Mr B complained in July 2019 to Parker Kelly about the advice hed been given in 2007 to 
transfer. Parker Kelly responded to Mr B on 19 September 2019 and didnt uphold his 
complaint. Parker Kelly said a transfer had first been considered in 2002 at Mr Bs request. 
Parker Kelly told Mr B that it wasnt in his best interests at that time. The transfer reviewed 
again in 2003 and still not considered suitable. Parker Kelly kept it under review and in 2007 
the critical yield  the investment return needed on the transfer value to match the defined 
benefits being given up  meant a transfer was considered to be in Mr Bs best interests. Mr 
B still had the option of using his PPP to purchase an annuity to provide an income for life.
Parker Kelly also said that Mr B had complained too late. One of my ombudsman colleagues 
considered that. He issued a jurisdiction decision on 6 May 2021. For the reasons he set out 
he said Mr Bs complaint had been made in time.
One of our investigators then considered the merits of Mr Bs complaint.  He issued his view 
on 5 August 2021. He said there was limited contemporaneous evidence so hed based his 
view on what details were available and some earlier and later documentation relating to 
advice from Parker Kelly to Mr B. 
The investigator concluded that the advice to transfer was unsuitable. In summary his 
findings were: 
At the time, Mr B was self employed and earning between £15,000 and £20,000 pa. 
Hed been making monthly contributions to the PPP. In November 2007 the PPP was 
worth £9,067.26.
Guidance from the regulator said that a firm should start by assuming that a transfer 
from a defined benefits occupational pension scheme wont be suitable. 
Without any recommendation letter setting out why, in Mr Bs case, a transfer was 
recommended, the investigator had looked at the financial viability of the transfer, 
Parker Kelly having highlighted the critical yield as being a sufficient reason to 
recommend the transfers. The critical yields for retirement at 60 were 10% and 8.9%. 
That averaged out as 9.35%, using the proportion of the overall transfer value. 
At the time the regulator was publishing discount rates for use in loss assessments. 
The relevant discount rate was 6.5% pa for fifteen years to Mr Bs retirement (age 
60). And the regulators upper, middle and lower projection rates were 9%, 7% and 
5% pa respectively. 
Mr B, a medium risk investor, was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value as a result of transferring. He was transferring 14.5 years service. He 
had some capacity for loss but the benefits he transferred were his main retirement 
provision. For the transfers to be appropriate, there needed to be a reasonable 
prospect that Mr B would be better off as a result. But it seemed likely that hed be 
worse off instead. 
No reason why the transfer might have been appropriate had been put forward. 
Given it seemed that Mr B would receive a lower pension as a result of transferring, 
the recommendation to transfer was unsuitable. 
Parker Kelly said (its email sent on 20 August 2021) that it was seeing if it could retrieve 
some documents from storage that may have details of the personal recommendation. It said it didnt agree with the investigators view as it believed there was enough evidence to 
show that Mr B was aware he was giving up guaranteed benefits. 
The investigator emailed Parker Kelly on 31 August 2021 asking if any additional files had 
been located or when Parker Kelly anticipated being able to provide anything else. We didnt 
hear back and on 3 October 2021 the investigator wrote to the parties saying that the 
complaint would be reviewed by an ombudsman whod make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive mentioned above, one of my colleagues considered earlier if Mr Bs complaint had 
been made in time. Were required to keep jurisdiction under review until we issue a final 
decision. Ive done that. And I agree with my colleague and the reasons he gave as to why 
Mr Bs complaint hasnt been made too late. Although Mr Bs complaint wasnt made within 
the primary six year period, it was made within three years of when Mr B became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
As to the merits, theres a lack of contemporaneous evidence. In particular neither Mr B nor 
Parker Kelly has been able to produce a copy of the suitability letter which wouldve been 
issued in connection with the transfers. But I think I can fairly determine the complaint on the 
basis of such evidence as is available. 
I agree with the investigator and the reasons he gave as to why the complaint should 
succeed. I dont have much to add. 
As the investigator noted, COB 19.1.6G said (at the time Mr B was advised to transfer): 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
Like the investigator, Ive focused on the financial viability of the transfer. I accept that isnt 
the only consideration. In some cases, an individuals circumstances and particular needs 
and objectives may mean a transfer is justified, even if its unlikely to result in improved 
benefits at retirement. An example might be where someone has serious health issues. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that was the case here. 
In certain circumstances, improved death benefits may be important. I note, in its final 
response letter, Parker Kelly said, that following its analysis of the critical yield, it had 
become apparent that a transfer was then viable and, as discussed with Mr B, due to the 
death benefits offered by the alternative provider, it was agreed hed proceed with a transfer. 
Improved death benefits may have been a consideration. But the main aim of pension 
savings is to provide an income in retirement. When asked, most investors will say theyd 
want family or others to benefit in the event of their death. But thats usually a secondary 
consideration and not a reason in itself for transferring. Id agree with the investigator that (in 
the majority of cases at least) a transfer will only be justified if theres a reasonable chance 
that it will result in improved retirement benefits. Against that background the critical yield  the rate of return required to match the benefits 
being given up  is an important consideration. It helps put into context the level of risk that 
transferring entails. And the likelihood or otherwise of the investor being better off as a 
result. 
The critical yields for retirement at 60 were 10% and 8.9%, which averaged out as 9.35%, 
using the proportion of the overall transfer value. The investigator referred to the regulators 
discount rate being 6.5% in Mr Bs case. Firms werent required to take that into account. 
But I think it does give an indication as to the degree of investment risk that the transfer 
carried. And whether it was likely that a medium risk investor such as Mr B could achieve 
that sort of return just to match the benefits being given up. The investigator also said that, at 
the time, the regulators standard nominal rates of return for pension projections were 9%, 
7% and 5%. Again, I think that indicates that the required level of return, just to match the 
benefits being given up, was unlikely to be achieved. 
I also agree with the investigator that Mr B only had a limited capacity for loss. He had some 
other pension savings and time to add to those further. But the benefits he transferred 
represented the bulk of his retirement provision at the time. I dont think he should have been 
advised to transfer unless there was a reasonable prospect hed be better off as a result. I 
cant see that was the case. 
I note that Parker Kelly was seeking additional evidence. Nothing was forthcoming and I 
assume that Parker Kelly was unable to find anything relevant. Further, and in any event, it 
wouldnt make any difference to my decision  which centres on if a transfer was suitable - if 
Parker Kelly could demonstrate that Mr B was aware that, if he transferred, hed be giving up 
guaranteed benefits in return for those that were dependent on investment returns. 
Mr B may have said, in making his complaint, that he hadnt been made aware that he was 
giving up pensions that would be paid for the rest of his life. I note, in an earlier report, 
Parker Kelly set out that Mr Bs preserved benefits in his former employers scheme meant 
he was entitled to a guaranteed pension at retirement (age 65) and that in deferment 
(between leaving his former employers scheme and age 65) his benefits would be increased 
at the rate set out. 
But, even if it had been made clear to Mr B that, if he transferred, hed be giving up a 
guaranteed pension payable for life, it would still be for Parker Kelly to show the advice to 
transfer was suitable. 
We consider suitability overall. We dont approach a complaint about suitability just by 
looking at the reasons put forward by the consumer as to why advice given may not have 
been suitable. We look into all the circumstances of the particular case. Further, and in any 
event Mr Bs complaint was put more widely  hed also said that Parker Kelly should have 
left his company pensions and their benefits alone. 
I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests to give up the guaranteed benefits. The critical 
yields meant that there was a significant risk hed be worse off and his income in retirement 
would be lower. The advice to transfer wasnt suitable. 
Parker Kelly had been Mr Bs adviser for some time. I think if Parker Kelly had advised him 
against transferring Mr B wouldve retained his benefits in his former employers scheme. It 
seems that Mr B had accepted earlier advice from Parker Kelly that he shouldnt transfer.
 
I agree with what the investigator said about how Parker Kelly should redress Mr B. Ive set it 
out again, adjusted to reflect the fact that Im now issuing a final decision. Putting things right
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he 
would have remained in his former employers schemes. 
Parker Kelly should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the 
decision. 
Parker Kelly Financial Services Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Bs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Parker Kelly receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Parker Kelly to pay Mr B.
It's possible that data gathering for a SERPs adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
In addition, Parker Kelly should pay Mr B £300 for the upset hes been caused.   
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Parker Kelly Financial Services Ltd must redress Mr B as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman