DRN-3486713
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated him unfairly when he called to
question transactions on his account.
What happened
Mr C called Barclays on 23 March 2021 to question why payments made from his debit card
to TFL were not showing as a pending transaction on his account. He was concerned that
the money would be collected late and that he might incur fees because of this.
He was unhappy with the response provided by the adviser and asked that a complaint be
raised. This resulted in the call needing to be transferred and Mr C needed to speak to a
number of different people at Barclays to both raise his complaint about the transactions and
banking app, and about the service he received when asking for help with his questions on
this.
Barclays looked at Mr Cs complaint and said it was sorry he had cause for complaint. It
explained how TFL requests payments and when, this showed there could be a delay in
transactions being requested from accounts but not that there was an error with Barclays
system.
It said it had listened to the call on 23 March and subsequent calls to discuss this one.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong during these. But it offered £25.00 to Mr C
as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint and didnt think Barclays needed to do anything
else. She felt the service could have been better when the call was made but that the
resolution of £25.00 was broadly fair. And she said, because complaint handling isnt a
regulated activity, she couldnt comment on this part of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C disagreed. He felt the service provided by Barclays wasnt good enough and it treated
him unfairly when he called on 23 March 2021. He said he has a number of mental health 
conditions which Barclays should have noted on its system and it should take account of
these and adjust its communication to help him. It failed to do this and triggered Mr C to
suffer with his mental health and so he doesnt think £25.00 is a fair resolution.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2020. I explained that Id listened 
to the call Mr C had when he first spoke with Barclays about his card and the transaction 
with TFL not showing and that I felt the service provided wasnt good enough. And that this 
resulted in distress and inconvenience to Mr C. I said I was planning on asking Barclays to 
increase the award it offered from £25.00 to £150.00.
Both Barclays and Mr C have responded to say they accept my provisional findings so I see 
no reason to depart from these now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered this complaint, I think Barclays need to do something to put things right.
Mr C appears to accept the reasons for the delay in payments showing in his banking app
when using TFL and the explanation provided on this within the response to the complaint
seems fair. So I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong here or that there was an
error with Mr Cs account. 
However, Ive listened to the call made on 23 March 2021 with Barclays and I dont think the
service provided was acceptable or demonstrated that Mr C was treated fairly. I say this as I
think its clear the agent, even once directed specifically by Mr C to his mental health
conditions and the fact that these should be flagged on Barclays internal screens, failed to
take account of this with his communication.
I can see Barclays made a note of these conditions in April 2019 after Mr C gave his
permission for this to be recorded, so I think its fair to expect this flag should have been in
place and the knowledge there that Mr C is vulnerable. Mr C made a simple request when
he wasnt happy with the response provided about the banking app, he asked for a
complaint to be raised. The agent instead of doing this, attempted a number of times to try
and explain again why there was no error and what Mr C was complaining about wasnt
needed. This was despite Mr C giving a warning about his conditions and it being clear how
he was becoming more and more upset as the call went on.
I think its fair to say that the handling of this call left Mr C distressed and hes said it took
sometime to get over this. I dont think £25.00 as a gesture of goodwill is sufficient to
compensate for this and feel a more appropriate level is £150.00.
So I think Barclays should increase its offer by £125.00 and to pay Mr C £150.00
for the distress and upset caused during the call on 23 March 2021.
I understand Mr C is also unhappy with the service he received when the complaint was
dealt with. Im afraid complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity so I cant comment on
these aspects of his complaint. But for the reasons explained above, I think Barclays has
done something wrong and needs to put this right.
Putting things right
Barclays needs to pay Mr C £150.00 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused 
through the poor service of its call with him in March 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman