DRN-3355863
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) hasnt written-off a loan which was taken 
out in her name.
Whats happened?
Miss H says she met a person, who Ill refer to as S for the remainder of this decision. S 
asked her if she was able to receive funds from some of his business clients and pay them 
out to his other clients.
Miss H agreed to help. She provided her account details to S and started to receive funds 
into her account. This included a payment for £5,000 in the middle of June 2019  which 
Miss H paid out of her account as she says she was instructed to do. But shortly after that, 
she began to lose contact with S. She says that she then started to receive letters from loan 
companies and she realised that the payments she thought had come from S clients were 
actually loans which had been taken out in her name  including a £5,000 loan from Bamboo 
(the loan) which funded the £5,000 payment she received and subsequently moved on in 
June 2019, referred to above.
Miss H raised a fraud claim with Bamboo in September 2019  explaining that shed been 
the victim of a scam and that the loan hadnt been taken out by her.
Bamboo investigated Miss Hs claim but decided to hold her liable for the loan. Unhappy with 
Bamboos response, Miss H brought a complaint to our Service. She said:
She met S in person, and he was extremely charming and persuasive during her 
initial interactions with him. However, he became more intimidating as time went on.
S misled her about what the money coming into her account was for. S told her this 
was his money  and whilst the money looked like loans, that wasnt the case.
Shes adamant she didnt apply for the loan.
Bamboo told us:
The loan was applied for at the beginning of June 2019. Quotes for different amounts 
were provided before the applicant proceeded with asking for a £5,000 loan to be 
repaid over 48 months. The purpose of the loan was for a holiday.
After its lending criteria had been met, two emails were sent to the email address it 
had been given. In addition to this, and in order to verify the telephone number 
provided on the application, a five-digit number was sent via text which needed to be 
input on the loan application. This process was completed only minutes after the 
initial application had been processed.
Around 12 hours later, Miss Hs genuine card details were added to the system as a 
repayment vehicle and the loan agreement was signed digitally. The funds were 
scheduled to be paid into Miss Hs bank account a few days later.
Around a week later, Bamboo received a call from someone identifying themselves 
as Miss H. The caller said: No money has come through to my account, but the first 
set of direct debits has gone out. Bamboo then received a call the following day from 
someone identifying themselves as Miss H. The caller said: I am supposed to get a 
loan from you guys on the first, but nothing has come through yet. Bamboo believes 
the person in the calls was Miss H and it says this shows she had an awareness that 
the loan had been taken out.
Bamboo didnt hear from Miss H anymore until the end of September 2019. Shortly 
after the loan had been approved in June 2019, a welcome letter was sent to her 
home address. In addition to this, after the first loan repayment was declined at the 
beginning of July 2019, another letter was sent to her address. In the event that 
Miss H hadnt consented to the loan or wasnt aware of it, it would have expected her 
to report the matter much sooner.
Bamboo concluded that Miss H ought to have been aware of the loan, and she 
knowingly transferred the £5,000 to a third-party. As a result, it did not agree to   
write-off the loan. But it said it would remove all interest and charges relating to the 
loan, leaving Miss H with just the capital balance (£5,000) to repay. It also said that it 
would consider putting a sustainably affordable repayment plan in place upon receipt 
of Miss Hs income and expenditure details.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator reviewed Miss Hs complaint. He was satisfied Miss H had been the victim 
of a scam and that she hadnt applied for the loan herself. In addition to this, he said there 
was no indication that Miss H personally benefitted from the loan. So, our investigator felt 
that it would be reasonable for Bamboo to write-off the loan.
Miss H accepted our investigators findings, but Bamboo disagreed for the following reasons:
Whilst it accepted Miss H may have been the victim of a scam, it still thought she 
ought to have known the loan had been taken out in her name.
It said it is possible that Miss H did benefit financially from the loan.
It isnt fair to hold Bamboo liable for Miss Hs actions. It provided what appeared to be 
a genuine loan.
Bamboo asked for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman  so the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 3 February 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also seen the evidence and 
arguments provided in Miss Hs other complaint of a similar nature. Having done so, Im 
inclined to reach a different outcome to that of our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Miss H knew about the loan. Looking at everything, 
I think its most likely that she either applied for the loan herself or was complicit with this 
activity. I say this because:
Miss H has provided a copy of a welcome letter she received from Bamboo at the 
beginning of June 2019. The letter describes Miss H as a customer of Bamboo, talks about the loan and sets-out the loan repayment schedule. Bamboo says it also wrote 
to Miss H after she missed the first loan repayment in July 2019 and, as she received 
the welcome letter, I think its likely that she received this second letter too. But she 
doesnt appear to have raised any concerns with Bamboo upon receipt of these 
letters as I might have expected her to do if shed received communication about a 
loan account in her name which she had no knowledge of, and S had told her the 
funds shed received into her account belonged to him and did not come from a loan.
Ive listened to one of the calls made to Bamboo chasing the loan funds and Ive 
listened to some of the calls Miss H has had with our Service. It appears to me that 
its the same caller. In addition to this, Ive seen text messages in which S instructs 
Miss H to get in touch with Bamboo, sent at around the same time that the calls 
chasing the loan funds were made. And Miss H has told us that S made her call 
Bamboo as the money hadnt been released. Considering everything, I think its most 
likely that Miss H made the calls to Bamboo. And Im not persuaded that she was 
reasonably convinced by a cover story that the funds sent to her account were S 
when she was making calls to Bamboo to chase the loan funds.
The loan was credited to Miss Hs bank account. The reference for the credit was 
Bamboo Limited. Given this reference, plus the welcome letter Miss H had already 
received from Bamboo by this point, I dont think it was reasonable for her to believe 
the credit was not a loan.
I can see that two other loans (with other providers) were taken out in Miss Hs name 
before the disputed Bamboo loan. These other loans credited her bank account at 
the end of May 2019. Miss H has sent us a copy of a welcome letter which she 
received from one of the other loan providers  roughly two weeks before the 
Bamboo loan funds credited her account. I have to question why these other credits 
and letter confirming a loan had been taken out in her name didnt raise additional 
concerns when it came to the later Bamboo loan, especially because Miss H says S 
told her the money was his.
Ive thought about the explanation Miss H was provided with by S for the £5,000 credit to her 
account. But taking all of the points above into account, Im not persuaded that this 
explanation was at all plausible and I think its unlikely that Miss H was taken in by it. I think 
it's more likely that Miss H did know a loan had been taken out in her name, and that it 
wasnt S own money that had been transferred to her account. I accept there may have 
been other factors which influenced Miss H into moving the Bamboo loan funds on to S, but 
this isnt enough to say she should no longer be responsible for the loan itself  especially 
given all the reasons set out above.
I note Bamboo has agreed to waive any interest and charges on the loan, and I think this is 
reasonable on this occasion. But I see no reason to say it would be unfair for Bamboo to 
request Miss H repays the outstanding capital amount. However, if Miss H believes she may 
have difficulties in repaying the loan, then she should tell Bamboo, and Bamboo should 
assess her income and expenditure and put an affordable repayment plan in place until the 
capital has been repaid in full.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party put forward any further evidence for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings and conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman