DRN-1665095
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Allianz Insurance Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Ms A. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1991 alongside a store credit account. Ms A 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account. Our adjudicator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Ms A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The card application form, which Ms A apparently filled in and signed, does set out the PPI 
as a choice, which you make by ticking a box. Ms A has said it was made clear to her that 
she would not get the credit account unless she took the PPI. However, especially as this 
took place about 29 years ago, I cant be sure how well Ms A has remembered the details of 
what happened. And, where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, it would not be fair for that other person to have to prove that they didnt 
do that thing  instead the burden of proof is on the person making the claim. I realise it 
would be very difficult for Ms A to bring further supporting evidence, but I dont have strong 
enough evidence to say Allianz didnt give Ms A a fair choice.
It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms As 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Ms A to decide whether it was suitable.
However, Allianz did need to give Ms A clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have good evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Ms A. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But, in Ms As circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. (This 
is assuming she was given a true choice, which I accept she says didnt happen.) I say this 
because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also, if she had savings or other means of help to pay her living expenses, she could have 
kept those in reserve for longer. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed 
potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a difference to 
whether or not Ms A took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms As complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman