DRN-3755588
The complaint
Mr M has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) wont meet the costs he paid 
to replace his gas boiler. Mr M held a Homecare agreement with BGIL. 
What happened
Mr M held a HomeCare agreement with BGIL. In March 2021 a technician attended to 
inspect Mr Ms boiler as he reported finding rainwater was leaking into the boiler from the 
flue above. 
The technician didnt report any fault with the boiler - or any leak that was coming from it. 
Mr M contacted BGIL again and in March 2021 a technician attended. The technician 
reported that the leak was coming from an external source which wasnt covered (under the 
agreement) and the leak wasnt due to a faulty boiler. 
In July 2021 Mr M raised a complaint with BGIL. He said the second technician accepted 
that rainwater was coming into the boiler. So Mr M wanted BGIL to explain why it wasnt 
responsible for repairing the issue. He asked BGIL to contact him to discuss constructive 
ways to fix the problem. 
In August 2021 BGIL replied to Mr Ms complaint. However, it didnt address Mr Ms 
concerns clearly. It apologised for the poor service it had provided and delay responding to 
his complaint and said it would pay him £70 compensation. 
In September 2021 Mr M replied to BGIL and asked it to clarify its response on 26 August 
2021 as to why BGIL didnt agree to fix the problem. 
Mr M didnt receive a reply and he said in October 2021 he decided to replace the boiler at 
his own cost. Mr M says the flue was updated to accommodate the replaced boiler. 
In December 2021 Mr M raised a further complaint: in summary he was unhappy that BGIL 
hadnt answered his first complaint - and it had failed to send the compensation payment it 
promised of £70. 
In January 2022 BGIL apologised to Mr M. It sent a payment for £70. It said it would make 
further enquiries about his complaint. 
Notes provided by BGIL show that an internal discussion took place where it was suggested 
a further visit to assess the flue and whether it was a repair covered under the agreement 
could be arranged. However, as Mr M had arranged for the boiler and flue- to be updated - 
this was no longer an option. 
In April 2022 BGIL responded to Mr Ms complaints. It said the technicians who visited in 
March and June 2021 found no evidence of a leak from the flue - and that Mr M had 
confirmed roof repairs were being carried out directly above the area where the leak was 
occurring. 
It said that the agreement says BGIL should be given the opportunity to assess the condition 
of a boiler before it is replaced to decide whether a repair could be done. But as Mr M had 
replaced the boiler, this opportunity has passed. BGIL said it therefore wasnt responsible for 
the full costs to replace the boiler as it was in working order when the technicians attended 
to check it. 
But due to the time it had taken and the inconvenience caused, BGIL said the estimated 
costs to replace or repair the flue if it was covered under the policy would have been £600. 
So BGIL said it would pay Mr M £600. It said it wouldnt meet the full costs to replace the 
boiler. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator agreed that 
BGILs first response to Mr Ms complaint wasnt clear. But the crux of the issue was that 
BGIL wasnt responsible for reimbursing Mr M for the costs he paid to replace the boiler - as 
it wasnt given the opportunity to check it when Mr M said it was faulty.
Mr M didnt agree, In summary he says:
He didnt have an open flue, but a balanced flue at the time when the rainwater was leaking 
into the boiler. 
He doesnt see any relevance in the roof repair works being carried out at the same time as 
the leak was occurring.
Water entered the boiler from the flue, penetrated the boiler and leaked onto the floor.
He doesnt see the relevance of the agreement condition for BGIL to be given the 
opportunity to assess the boiler to see if it could be repaired before he decided to replace it. 
He never asked BGIL to replace the boiler. He is seeking the cost of replacing the boiler - 
not because hes entitled to that cost as a policy benefit - but because hes entitled to 
damages naturally flowing from BGILs failure to repair the boiler; which he believes it was 
obliged to do under the policy.
He had a faulty boiler which was potentially dangerous which despite repeated requests 
BGIL refused to do anything about. So in the end in desperation he paid for the boiler to be 
replaced. Mr M wants BGIL to pay him the difference between the £600 and the full costs he 
paid to do this. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr M that BGILs response to his complaint in August 2021 inadequately 
addresses the concerns he raised. It isnt clear what or why it paid him compensation of £70. 
Ive looked at the agreement in place - and Ive considered what Mr M has said about the 
boiler. 
There seems to be one main difference between an open flue and a balanced flue - which 
Mr M says he had with the boiler he had replaced. The difference is that a balanced flue has 
an opening for air from outside to come into the home. With this in mind, I dont think the 
difference changes the outcome as BGIL made its decision on the basis Mr M had an open 
flue. 
The agreement provides a diagram showing the parts of the home that are covered and the 
parts that arent are in white. An open flue is in white on the diagram - and therefore not 
covered for repair or replacement under the agreement. 
The key section of the agreement says:
Whats covered
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and: its less than seven years old; or
 its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product; or
 it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your annual 
service within every period of agreement
 customers need to contact us if a third party has deemed a replacement is 
necessary before they replace it. We require the opportunity to assess and determine 
if a repair can be made before a replacement or a contribution to a replacement is 
provided
 A replacement of the gas supply pipe and the controls that make your boiler work
if we cant repair them 
 A replacement of the room sealed flue up to one metre in length and the flue 
terminal if we cant repair it
The job sheets and notes provided by BGIL show that on both occasions when they 
assessed the boiler, they found no leak coming from the boiler, but commented that the leak 
was coming from an area not covered under the agreement. 
The agreement says it will provide cover for repair or replacement of a room sealed flue. 
From the information provided by Mr M and BGIL, this isnt where the rainwater was leaking 
from. 
The boiler was in working condition when the technicians attended. Ive looked at the video 
Mr M provided - and I can see that rainwater was leaking into the boiler and I can 
understand his concerns about that. But as the boiler was in working order - and the leak 
wasnt coming from a part that was covered under the agreement - I dont think BGIL is 
responsible for the costs of replacing the boiler and flue. 
Mr M says the following condition is irrelevant; customers need to contact us if a third party 
has deemed a replacement is necessary before they replace it. We require the opportunity to 
assess and determine if a repair can be made before a replacement or a contribution to a 
replacement is provided
But I dont agree. I think it is relevant as the agreement clearly says BGIL will not contribute 
toward the costs of a replacement boiler unless these conditions have been met. Ive seen 
no evidence that the boiler was faulty when Mr M replaced it.
However, BGIL has agreed as a gesture of goodwill to pay Mr M £600 toward the costs of 
the boiler as this is what it says it would have cost it had it repaired or replaced the flue. And 
it paid Mr M £70 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is fair 
as it failed to provide a clear response to Mr Ms complaint and it failed to respond in a timely 
manner to his correspondence in September and December 2021. 
Taking everything into account, I think BGIL has provided some poor service in the way it 
communicated with Mr M, but it has done enough to resolve Mr Ms complaint. So Im not 
asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman