DRN-3784847
The complaint
Mr P complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a replacement account card.
What happened
Mr P says he experienced a number of problems obtaining a new account card following the 
expiry of his existing card in May 2020. He says the new card did not arrive and he made 
visits to a local HSBC branch about the issue. Mr P says he wanted the new account card 
during the pandemic and says HSBC has unfairly told him he now needs to apply for a new 
account card. He would like a replacement card and an explanation for what has taken 
place.
HSBC accepts it made a number of mistakes and has apologised. It says it didnt order a 
new account card as it should have but says due to the passage of time was reasonably 
entitled to ask Mr P to apply for a new account card.  HSBC has offered £200 compensation 
and says the account was last used in 2018.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought HSBC had acted fairly by 
apologising and offering to pay an appropriate compensation amount. The investigator 
thought it up to HSBC to decide on its new account card policy and thought the account 
hadnt been used since 2018 in any event.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and in summary says he would like to know the reasons why 
the mistakes took place. He would like a guarantee that a new application would be 
approved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that HSBC made a series of mistakes that are well known to the 
parties and accepted by it. There is no need for me to repeat them, but I accept Mr P was 
caused distress and inconvenience. I have no doubt Mr P was also caused frustration in not 
receiving the new account card.
I appreciate Mr P would like to know the exact reasons why the mistakes took place. But it is 
not our role to require a business to provide a complainant with such information. Im 
satisfied that HSBC has fairly explained that it made a number of mistakes and has fairly 
apologised for what took place. Im also satisfied that HSBC has offered a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £200. I dont think Mr P suffered any real financial loss 
as a result of what took place and dont think the impact on him was significant enough to 
justify further compensation. I say that as I think there was a large time gap between Mr P 
complaining to HSBC in branch about what took place and that he hadnt used the account 
since 2018.
I also appreciate Mr P would like a guarantee from HSBC that any new account application 
would be approved. I am sorry to disappoint Mr P, but Im satisfied that its up to HSBC to 
decide with whom it has a business relationship and up to it to decide what its lending 
criteria is. It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC to approve a new account application from 
Mr P.
Overall, I accept HSBC made mistakes but its fairly apologised and offered appropriate 
compensation. I will leave it to Mr P to decide if he wishes to accept that compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer. Mr Ps acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman