DRN-2538574
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him incorrect information when he asked about 
making an overpayment to his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr A has a mortgage with Lloyds. In December 2018 he took a ten-year fixed interest rate on 
the mortgage. The mortgage allowed overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance 
each calendar year, without an early repayment charge (ERC) being incurred, while the fixed 
rate was in place.
In August 2020 Mr A called Lloyds about making an overpayment to his mortgage. Mr A 
asked Lloyds how much he was able to repay without incurring a fee. He was told he could 
repay £7,581.98. Mr A then proceeded to pay that amount to the mortgage.
Mr A was subsequently charged a partial ERC of £429.17  deducted from the overpayment 
he made. As a result, he complained to Lloyds.
It turned out Mr A had already used his overpayment allowance for the year, having made an 
overpayment of £7,581.97 in January 2020. Lloyds acknowledged its representative 
shouldve noticed this and the information which had been provided to Mr A over the phone 
was incorrect. To put things, it offered to return the overpayment to Mr A, which would mean 
the ERC was cancelled. It also offered him £75 for the upset caused by the initial error and 
how the complaint was subsequently handled.
Mr A initially indicated hed like the second overpayment to remain on the account and for 
Lloyds to waive the ERC. Lloyds did not agree to this.
Mr A then agreed to the return of the overpayment. This was on 13 October 2020. Lloyds 
indicated the refund would take 5-7 working days, but this wasnt completed until 27 October 
2020 (10 working days from when the redress was agreed).
Mr A raised a further complaint that this delay prevented him from investing in shares he 
otherwise would have, at a more beneficial trading position. He has also said he is unhappy 
with how the contractual monthly repayments have been recalculated since the refund  
saying Lloyds had been rude when discussing this and had initially refused to do so.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He felt that what Lloyds had already 
done to resolve matters was fair. He felt it was fair that Lloyds had refunded the 
overpayment, and it wouldnt have been fair on it to simply waive the ERC but allow the 
overpayment to remain. He noted that the contractual monthly repayment had been adjusted 
back to the level it was before the issue occurred. And he didnt think Lloyds had been rude 
when discussing this or the complaint in general. He acknowledged that Lloyds did take 
slightly longer than it said it would to refund the overpayment. But he wasnt satisfied that 
this had caused a loss. So, he didnt feel it needed to take any further action.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. As 
a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has acknowledged that when Mr A called to discuss making an overpayment in 
August 2020, he was incorrectly told he was able to do so without incurring a fee. Its 
operative shouldve noted that Mr A had already utilised his overpayment allowance in 
January 2020. So, it accepts an error was made.
Ive thought about what the fair way to address this is. But I think what Lloyds suggested was 
reasonable. I can see Mr A called Lloyds shortly after the issue had been discovered and the 
ERC charged and that Lloyds offered, straight away, to refund the overpayment, which in 
turn would cancel the ERC. That put Mr A in the position he wouldve been in had the August 
overpayment not been made, so I think this was fair. I dont think it would be reasonable for 
Lloyds to be required to have accepted the second overpayment to the account and waive 
the ERC, as that was not something Mr A was ever entitled to. So, I think what Lloyds 
suggested to put things right was fair.
Mr A was also unhappy with how the contractual monthly repayment would be recalculated 
following this refund  something he seems to have raised after finally agreeing to the refund 
on 13 October 2020. From the information available to me though I dont think Lloyds acted 
unfairly. I havent seen anything that leads me to think Lloyds refused to consider a 
recalculation. In fact, I think it was clear that this would take place. It was just initially unable 
to say if the recalculated monthly repayment would be exactly as before  as the account 
had benefitted from being overpaid for several weeks before the refund was agreed by Mr A 
and processed. And I dont think that Lloyds was rude or dismissive when discussing this 
with Mr A. Lloyds has provided evidence that the contractual monthly repayment has been 
recalculated and did return to the level it was before the issue occurred. So, I dont think it 
needs to take any further action in respect of this.
When Mr A told Lloyds on 13 October 2020 that hed like the overpayment to be refunded, it 
did indicate this would be completed within 5-7 working days. But I can see it in fact took 10 
working days  longer than Mr A was told, but not in my view particularly unreasonable. Mr A 
has said he has lost out as a result as he intended to invest these funds and missed the 
opportunity to do so due to this delay. 
Mr A hasnt provided details of the investment he intended to make, so weve seen no 
evidence of a potential financial loss. And I cant see that this was mentioned to Lloyds, 
other than on the day before the funds were returned when he chased them for an update. In 
any event I dont think itd be reasonable to ask Lloyds to provide any compensation for this. 
While there was a delay in the refund being processed, Im also conscious that Lloyds in fact 
proposed refunding the overpayment, over a month before Mr A agreed to this. So, if hed 
intended to utilise the funds as he said, he had the opportunity to ask for this money back 
significantly sooner. But Mr A chose not to. With that all of this in mind I dont think I can 
reasonably say that this delay caused a loss, so I dont think Lloyds needs to do more.
Mr A has raised issue with how Lloyds has handled matters throughout his complaint. Hes 
said he thinks Lloyds has been rude. Based on the information available to me I think Lloyds 
has acted professionally. There were times that Mr A was likely unhappy with the information 
being given to him, But I dont think Lloyds has been rude or discourteous. Lloyds did 
acknowledge that call backs were not carried out as requested by the initial complaint 
handler and so paid Mr A £75 for the upset caused by the overall service provided not being of the standard it would like. Taking everything into account I think this was fair and I dont 
think Lloyds needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint as I feel the actions already 
taken by Lloyds to remedy matters are fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman