DRN-4332443
The complaint
Ms V complains about how Morgan Clark Ltd handled her claim on her home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms V had a home insurance policy to cover the property she lives in. In January 2022 there 
was an escape of water at her home and she made a claim. 
However she was unhappy with how her insurers contractors were dealing with the claim. 
So in February 2022, she appointed her own loss assessor to take over the management of 
it  Morgan Clark.
Morgan Clark suggested a contractor to carry out the required repairs, Ill refer to them as 
B. Over the months that followed, B carried out the repairs and Ms Vs insurer made 
payment for these as invoices were presented. Final payment for the claim was issued by 
the insurer on 10 October 2022.
Ms V was unhappy with the standard of work B had carried out and how theyd treated her. 
In particular:
The replacement laminate flooring B laid had a bounce to it and other flooring experts 
who inspected it said the sub-floor should have been levelled before it was laid.
B damaged two blinds while they were carrying out the work.
Ms V heard B talking about her paint choice in a disrespectful way and admitting they 
hadnt primed the walls correctly before painting them.
B had cut the architraves too short and there was now a gap between them and the 
flooring so they needed to be replaced.
When Ms V turned the heating on again after the work she found her radiators 
werent working and required a power flush before they would work again.
Ms V felt B had been generally unhelpful and taken a long time to address her 
concerns when she raised them.
She made a complaint and while Morgan Clark didnt uphold it, it offered £2,500 towards
getting the flooring rectified as a gesture of goodwill. Unhappy with this Ms V brought her
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She
thought Morgan Clark should relay the flooring and level the underfloor before doing so. She
said Ms V should source two quotes for the required work and it will choose one to pay.
Ms V didnt agree with our investigators outcome. She said shed find it hard to know where
to source contractors from. And she didnt think our investigator had considered the impact
Bs poor service had had on her. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman.
On 14 August 2023 I issued a provisional decision, which stated as follows:
Our jurisdiction
Before I consider the merits, I need to be clear about what I can and cant look at as part of
this complaint. Firstly, this service can only consider complaints about businesses carrying
out activities that are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). A loss assessor
can carry out the regulated activity of assisting in the administration and performance of a
contract of insurance.
However this can only be carried out while the claim is in the process of being considered
and settled. Once the claim is settled by the insurer, then the contract of insurance has been
fulfilled, which means any activity the loss assessor carried out after this point isnt
considered a regulated activity. Therefore this service only has the jurisdiction to consider a
loss assessors actions up until the claim is settled. In this case the insurer has confirmed it
issued the final cash settlement for the claim on 10 October 2022. So I can only consider
Morgan Clarks actions up until this date.
Having reviewed the timeline of events, it appears that most of the errors and omissions that
Ms V has complained about happened before the final payment was issued by the insurer.
So I can consider most of her complaint. However when it comes to considering the impact
of Morgan Clarks actions, I wont be able to consider any further actions past this date.
Repairs
While Ms V has been unhappy with a number of repairs carried out by B, it seems the only
issue that remains outstanding is the flooring.
There have been two expert reports carried out to comment on the flooring and both have
concluded that in order to achieve a good finish, the sub-flooring should have been levelled.
So Im persuaded that this is the reason why Ms Vs floor is bouncing.
I note Morgan Clarks comments that the sub-floor hasnt been damaged by the insured 
peril, and instead this was a pre-existing issue with the sub-floor. And I dont disagree.
However when contractors carry out a repair, this service would expect this to be both
effective and long lasting. And we understand that sometimes, in order to achieve this,
additional work needs to be completed that wouldnt be covered under the insurance policy.
And we will sometimes consider it fair and reasonable for a contractor to carry out this work
so that the repair is of a good standard.
I think this applies here. While I agree levelling the sub-floor isnt work that was required as a
result of the insured peril. Based on the two reports on file, its clear that it is required in
order for the floor to be effectively re-laid. I therefore think Morgan Clark should cover the
cost of this on top of relaying the floor.
Ms V has said she may find it hard to find a contractor who will carry out the work on the
floor, as she doesnt have any contacts in this area. I agree this would be more difficult for
her.
Morgan Clark will likely have a number of different contacts who would be able to complete
this work. And while I appreciate its comments about only introducing Ms V to B, ultimately ittook on the project management of the claim and repairs. And these have been carried out
poorly. So I think it fair that Morgan Clark take responsibility for ensuring an appropriate fix.
I therefore think the fairest resolution is for Morgan Clark to select two contractors other
than B  to lift the flooring, level the sub-floor and relay it to a good standard. Ms V can then
choose which of the two she would like to complete the work.
If Ms V is uncomfortable with Morgan Clark appointing a contractor then she can choose to
appoint her own to quote for the work. And Morgan Clark should pay the amount on receipt
of a quote for the work. However this should be Ms Vs choice.
There is some disagreement about whether the flooring should be laid up to the kitchen units
or under them. As Im not an expert in this area, it isnt for me to decide what method should
be used. Instead the appointed contractor should determine what the most appropriate
method would be, that will produce an effective and long-lasting repair.
Service
From looking at the correspondence provided, I can see that this has been a very difficult
claim for Ms V. She originally appointed Morgan Clark because shed been unhappy with her
insurers handling of the claim. And once she did, things didnt go smoothly.
There has been a number of bits of the repairs that have had to be redone  including the
flooring, painting and changes to the architraves. And during the work her blinds have been
damaged and had to be replaced. I can see Ms V has reported this poor work as it has
happened, but Morgan Clark havent always been proactive in getting the issues resolved
promptly. And it has taken many emails from Ms V to resolve things.
Further, Ms V has explained that she captured footage of B talking in a disrespectful way
about her paint choices and admitting they hadnt done enough to prime the surface before
painting. This would have been particularly distressing during an already stressful claim.
Ms V has explained that she suffers from depression and has found the claim difficult to
manage. So I understand the impact of Morgan Clark and Bs poor handling has been
greater because of this.
Due to this, Im minded to direct Morgan Clark to pay Ms V £500 compensation to apologise 
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused due to the poor handling and service up
until 10 October 2022.
Response to my provisional decision
Morgan Clark responded to my provisional decision to say that while it didnt agree that it 
should cover the cost of levelling the flooring, in order to not delay matters further it would 
accept my provisional findings.
Ms V responded to confirm she also accepted the decision. And would like to obtain her own 
quote for the work, rather than ask Morgan Clark to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted the outcome laid out in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from this. While Ms V has indicated that she wishes to obtain her own 
quotes, I have still included both options, as I did in my provisional decision, in case she changes her mind. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Vs complaint and direct Morgan Clark Ltd to resolve 
the complaint as follows:
At Ms Vs selection, Morgan Clark should either carry out, or pay for taking up the 
flooring, levelling the subfloor and relaying the floor. Ms V should choose which of the 
following options she is comfortable with and Morgan Clark should settle the claim 
based on her selection:
Either
Morgan Clark selects two contractors to carry out the work and Ms V chooses which 
of the two she would prefer.
or
Ms V appoints her own contractor to quote for the work and Morgan Clark pays Ms V 
for this, on receipt of proof of the cost.
The contractor appointed to carry out the work should decide whether the floor 
should be laid up to or under the kitchen units, based on what will produce an 
effective and long lasting repair.
Morgan Clark should pay Ms V £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman