DRN-2541723
The complaint
Mr B complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B acquired a second-hand car costing £6,844 funded by a hire purchase 
agreement. It was some nine years old and had covered 107,785 miles. Within a few weeks 
Mr B noticed a fault and the dealer advised him to take it to VAT registered garage to be 
repaired. It repaired the cylinder 3 coil pack.
Shortly after that Mr B had further problems and took the car for a diagnostic test. This 
showed the cylinders were misfiring. Mr B complained to Oodle and it arranged for the car to 
be subjected to an independent inspection. This confirmed the car was still misfiring and said 
it may be due to misfuelling and a faulty coil pack. It said that would not be an uncommon 
fault given the cars mileage. The inspector said electrical faults can occur suddenly but 
couldnt give a definitive opinion. He concluded: 
The fault may be an unsuccessful repair in the vehicle's history if the same cylinder has failed 
again or the new fault has developed within 500 miles and may be the responsibility of the 
repairing agent.
The car was taken to a main dealer which could not identify the fault and put the juddering 
down to a buckled wheel. I also note that Mr B had further diagnostic done on 25 March 
2020 which confirmed a misfire in cylinder 3. 
Oodle rejected Mr Bs complaint and so he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. He concluded that 
the weight of evidence pointed to the car having been faulty at the point of sale and 
recommended rejection.
Oodle didnt agree and set out the events as it understood them. It noted the independent 
report was inconclusive, but subsequently the main dealer was unable to find a fault after 
extensive testing. It didnt believe rejection was merited in the light of this finding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Oodle is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I would say at the outset that the car was relatively elderly and had covered a significant 
mileage. As such it would be expected to suffer from wear and tear and from a wide potential 
range of faults. But that does not mean that all faults are simply due to wear and tear.
The fault first came to light within the first 30 days after the sale and it was open to Mr B to 
have rejected it at that point. However, the dealer offered to have it repaired and asked Mr B 
to arrange this. He did as he was advised by the dealer and had the repairs carried out at a 
suitable garage.
Apart from the main dealer all subsequent reports into the car have confirmed that the 
engine continued to misfire. So, we have an independent report commissioned by Oodle and 
two other reports obtained by Mr B which confirm the engine continued to misfire after it had 
been repaired. It would appear the main dealers conclusions are an outlier and the broad 
consensus is that the car continued to misfire.
Given Mr B didnt seek rejection within 30 days I need to consider what was required of the 
dealer and its entitlement to one opportunity to effect a repair. When Mr B notified it of the 
problem it asked him to choose a garage to make the repair. He did so and I consider this 
was the one opportunity the dealer was allowed.
It is clear the car had the same problem after this repair. The independent inspector has said 
the continuing problems could be due to a failed repair or a new fault occurred within 500 
miles.  I consider that on the balance of probabilities that the former explanation is most 
likely. 
The situation is that within a matter of weeks after the sale the car developed a fault and 
despite the repair the same issue continues to affect the car. I think it reasonable to 
conclude there was an inherent fault and the one repair allowed did not solve the problem 
and so I consider it only fair that Mr B be allowed to reject they car.
Putting things right
Mr B should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Oodle Financial Services Limited 
to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr Brefund the initial cost of repairs with Audi (£104) and add 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
refund the cost of the repairs of £180 and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
refund the cost of the unauthorised repairs by Audi (£414) and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
refund the cost of the final diagnostic (£60) and add 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
refund all payments made from December 2019 to present and add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. This is to reflect the time 
Mr B didnt have use of his or a courtesy vehicle.
Redress Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused through multiple trips 
to various locations and unreasonable delays in arranging an inspection
ensure this is correctly reflected in Mr Bs credit profile. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman