DRN-2726131
The complaint
Miss W complains that Madison CF UK Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss W was accepted for a Madison credit card. She was given a credit limit of £250. She
has complained to Madison as she says they shouldnt have accepted her credit card
application as she had previously defaulted on a loan with them and other companies. She
says this shows Madison were irresponsibly lending to her.
Madison rejected her complaint as they based their decision to lend on information Miss W
provided them such as her occupation, income and expenditure as well as information from
other sources such as her credit file. Madison said that Miss W confirmed this information
was correct and said it was her responsibility to ensure the information given was accurate
and that she could afford repayments.
Miss W wasnt satisfied with the outcome of her complaint and brought it to our service. As
Miss W had asked for any interest on her credit card and loan to be refunded our
investigator clarified that the complaint was about the credit card only as this is the subject of
the original complaint that Madison had irresponsibly lent to her.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. The investigator said that reasonable and
proportionate checks had been carried out. The investigator also said that the application,
which Miss W completed, showed a disposable income of £850 per month. Given that the
credit limit was £250 and never changed, then on the information given by Miss W the
payments should have been affordable.
The investigator added that no interest is charged on the card and no late/over-limit fees.
There is a cost of £8 a month for the credit card. Based on the minimum payment the
monthly payment requested would tend to be between £15-£25 per month.
Miss W disagreed with the investigators view. She said there were defaults on her credit file
which she still hasnt paid off and said that she wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an
Ombudsman.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to make credit available to Miss W, Madison needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well the consumer's
personal circumstances.
Ive seen that Miss Ws credit card agreement set out that the credit limit was £250. And the
minimum monthly repayment was 1% of the remaining balance shown on the statement plus
a monthly subscription fee of £8. The minimum payment would be a minimum of £15 a
month (even if the 1% of the remaining balance + subscription fee is lower than £15).
Interest is not payable on a Madison credit card. Madison has provided a copy of the
application Miss W completed when she applied for the credit card and the results Madison
obtained from a credit search they also did.
Within the application, I can see that Miss W said that she was single and renting. She was
full-time employed earning £1,600 per month. She also declared her regular commitments 
which included payments to existing credit facilities, to be £750 in total. This suggests that
Miss W had a disposable income of around £850 per month. This would indicate Miss W had
enough disposable income to meet the repayments due on a credit card with a limit of £250.
Ive carefully considered whether the information that Madison gathered at the time should
reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I think that they should have. I say
this as although Miss W had supplied her income and expenditure it is not generally
sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by Miss W without
independent evidence.
The information on the credit file also showed that Miss W had nearly £15,000 worth of debt
at the time of the application. £13,000 of this was not in the form of credit cards or loans and
a lot of this accounted for overdrafts, which couldve been removed at any time by the bank.
The credit file also showed that Miss W had defaulted six times in the last 36 months,
including a default on a loan with Madison themselves. The information on the application
form does not correlate to the information on Miss Ws credit file so I would expect Madison
to complete further enquiries when faced with this. But this isnt the end of the matter.
If Madison had asked further questions or sought further information from Miss W Im
satisfied they would have still reached the same outcome and accepted Miss Ws
application. I say this as the minimum repayment of the credit card (£15 a month) wouldnt
have had much of an impact on Miss Ws outgoings  it represents less than 1% of her
income.
Madison were satisfied Miss W could afford the card even if she had previous defaults and
one was with them. The credit limit on her Madison credit card stayed the same from when
the account was opened. Miss Ws credit file also showed she wasnt using all of the
available credit that was available to her with her other borrowing so this also would be a
positive factor for Madison.
Ive taken into account the point raised by Miss W of how Madison gave credit when she has
a history of defaults. But Madison will have seen no new defaults registered in the 12 months
prior to the point of application. So while these would have been visible to Madison, they
may show Miss W had been improving her finances. These factors wouldnt on their own
suggest that Miss W would necessarily struggle with payments she would need to make
towards her Madison credit card.
Madison also say they work with people with less than a perfect credit history to give them a
helping hand. So the fact Miss W did have adverse credit data wouldnt exclude Madison
from accepting her application. And in considering all of these factors I think that was a
decision Madison reached fairly in the circumstances. So it follows I wont be asking
Madison to take any further action.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Madison said they had nothing further to add and accept the decision. Miss W said 
her response to the decision remains the same as previously advised.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about Miss Ws previous comments as her response to the provisional 
decision remained the same as she had previously advised. As there was no further 
information given from Miss W I can only reiterate to Miss W what I said in my provisional 
decision - Ive taken into account the point raised by Miss W of how Madison gave credit 
when she has a history of defaults. But Madison will have seen no new defaults registered in 
the 12 months prior to the point of application. So while these would have been visible to 
Madison, they may show Miss W had been improving her finances. These factors wouldnt 
on their own suggest that Miss W would necessarily struggle with payments she would need 
to make towards her Madison credit card.
Madison also say they work with people with less than a perfect credit history to give them a
helping hand. So the fact Miss W did have adverse credit data wouldnt exclude Madison
from accepting her application.
In summary, Miss Ws response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Miss W will be 
disappointed, but I hope she understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman