DRN-3364488
The complaint
Mr L complains that Society of Lloyds hasnt settled a claim under his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr L held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which covered him between 
1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020. The insurer was a Lloyds underwriter.
Mr L had booked a trip abroad in August 2019 to take place between 16 January and 
4 April 2020. Mr L departed on his trip as planned.
But on 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a 
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel. Shortly after this, on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK 
citizens abroad to return home. Following this, the airline cancelled Mr Ls return flight.
Mr L bought a new return flight with another airline, and he returned to the UK on 
28 March 2020  so, he returned earlier than intended. Mr L received a refund from the 
original airline for the unused cost of his ticket, but he made a claim to Lloyds for the 
additional cost he incurred in having to buy a new return flight. Mr L says Lloyds should pay 
his claim because flight cancellation due to an accident is covered  which he says the 
outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic was.
Lloyds declined Mr Ls claim. It said that the reason for the claim wasnt an insured event 
under the policy. It didnt think Covid-19 met the policy definition of an accident, and it said 
this part of the policy didnt intend to cover this situation as it wasnt specifically listed. 
Lloyds also thought an exclusion applied in the circumstances of Mr Ls claim. Unhappy with 
Lloyds response, Mr L brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he didnt think Lloyds had acted 
unreasonably by saying that the Covid-19 pandemic wasnt an accident as per the policy 
definition. He was persuaded by Lloyds reasoning for this. 
So, while our investigator didnt think Lloyds had fairly relied on a policy exclusion, he didnt 
think it had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining the claim because the reason for the 
claim wasnt covered under the policy terms.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive looked through 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy.
Mr L returned to the UK earlier than intended  that means his trip was curtailed. His policy 
provides cover in the event of curtailment in certain situations. The one thats in dispute here 
says the following:
the cancellation or delayed departure for 24 hours or more of an aircraft, sea vessel or other 
publicly licensed form of passenger transport in which you had previously booked to travel, 
resulting from any of the following contingencies: strike, industrial action, fire, flood, 
earthquake, landslide, avalanche, volcanic eruption, adverse weather conditions and 
accident or mechanical breakdown provided always that such contingency had not 
occurred, commenced or been announced before the booking was made in respect of the 
flight voyage or journey thus affected.
The policy defines an accident as a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific event which 
occurs at an identifiable time and place during the period of insurance.
The cancellation email from the airline says the flight was cancelled in light of current health 
concerns globally. Mr L says his claim resulted from the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, 
which he says originated from an identifiable place at an identifiable time during the period of 
insurance. Lloyds, on the other hand, doesnt consider the Covid-19 pandemic to occur at 
an identifiable time and place; Lloyds says its ongoing, worldwide and wide-reaching.
Ive thought carefully about the policy terms, and what both sides have said. Im also mindful 
of an internationally accepted definition of a pandemic which is an epidemic occurring 
worldwide, or over a very large area, crossing international boundaries and usually affecting 
a large number of people.
Having considered everything, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
saying the Covid-19 pandemic doesnt meet the policy definition of an accident, for the 
reasons set out above. Additionally, I dont think the term in dispute is something thats 
intended to cover a situation like this. It lists specific situations that are covered but a 
pandemic, or an epidemic, isnt a specific, listed event here. Taking everything into account, 
I dont think the reason for Mr Ls claim is a specific, listed insured event under the policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong when it 
declined his claim. This is because the claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
his policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
Lloyds to accept his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 Renja Anderson
Ombudsman