DRN-4002248
The complaint
Mrs D complains of branch closures, poor service and inappropriate changes to terms and 
conditions of her account by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs D says that her local branch was closed with no consideration of the consequences 
especially mobility problems. She says that she and her disabled husband find it difficult to 
get to other branches and they dont all have a counter service. Mrs D says the customers 
are now crowding into the remaining branches, there arent enough staff and the waiting 
times to be served are too long. She says the parking at the branch she now tries to use is 
less available and more expensive. Mrs D says the alternative Lloyds offered of a service at 
her local Post Office is not suitable either.
Mrs D is also concerned about the fairness of some proposed terms and conditions being 
introduced into Lloyds accounts.
Lloyds says it consulted with community representatives before closing Mrs Ds local branch. 
It says it apologises for the poor service Mrs D received in her new branch location and it 
was probably because she was in there during a peak period or there were customers with 
complex issues.
Lloyds says it is not currently planning to change the terms and conditions of Mrs Ds 
account but will give her notice if it proposes to do so later.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has provided evidence that it consulted with community representatives before 
closing Mrs Ds local branch and considered the consequences for its customers. This is in 
line with the FCAs guidance on what a bank should do if it proposes such a closure. And in 
my view Lloyds is entitled to make a commercial decision about how many branches it has 
and where they are located. So, while I can understand Mrs D and her husband being very 
unhappy about having to travel to another location which she says is much more difficult to 
get to, is very busy, has poorer parking, and is more expensive for them, I cant say that 
Lloyds has done anything wrong in closing her local branch.
I see that Mrs D had to wait a long time on a recent visit to the branch she now has to use. 
and again I understand how this must affect her. In my view, any banks branches can get 
busy during certain periods if one or more customers raise more complex issues that need 
addressing. It is of course not in Lloyds own interests to have customers waiting a long time 
as they run the risk of losing business. Lloyds has apologised to Mrs D for the wait she had, 
and I think this is an appropriate response. So again, I cant say that Lloyds has done 
anything wrong in having occasions where customers have longer waiting times.
Mrs D says that Lloyds has failed to make reasonable adjustments for her husband to use 
the new branch through it being less accessible to them and having longer waiting times and 
she says it should provide more staff. In other words, Lloyds has failed to make reasonable 
adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when 
deciding this complaint  given its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this case based 
on whats fair and reasonable. If Mrs D wants a decision that Lloyds has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, then shed need to go to court.
I see that Lloyds was starting to communicate about a change to its account terms and 
conditions which was of concern to Mrs D. I can see why she might have been concerned, 
but I note that Lloyds now says it is not intending to continue with that change. And if it 
decides to do so later, it has said it will inform her. She can then choose not to use the 
account if she doesnt want to. If she feels that Lloyds account changes were somehow 
illegal or inappropriate, this would be a matter to be raised with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) which is the regulator rather than with this service. So, at this time, I cant 
say Lloyds has done anything wrong.
For completeness, I note that Mrs D has complained about Lloyds complaint handling. Our 
investigator has explained that complaint handling isnt a specifically regulated activity under 
our rules. But in looking at the overall service Lloyds has provided here, I havent seen that 
Lloyds has acted unfairly in how its dealt with her complaint.
In conclusion I think that Lloyds could help Mrs D as its customer by explaining better why it 
has done what it has done and help her to use its services in the best way possible. But I 
dont think it has done anything wrong in this matter.
So, although I know Mrs D will be disappointed, in my view, within my powers, I can see no 
reason to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman