DRN-1734640
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined their claim for storm 
damage under their building insurance policy for the collapse of their wall.
What happened
Mr E told AXA that several metres of garden wall had suddenly collapsed on 27 November 
2019. He said it took AXA until 2 December to send a loss adjuster and following his report 
the claim was declined as the collapse was deemed to be due to wear and tear. Mr E said 
this was incorrect and the collapse was due to the sudden build-up of water.
Mr E said there was rain on the evening of 27 November and ground water flows which 
impacted the wall with sudden hydrostatic pressure. He said local geological conditions 
allowed free draining and AXAs own survey shows the catastrophic failure caused by 
increased hydrostatic pressure - given the sudden nature of the collapse. 
AXA appointed a loss adjuster and its surveyor reported that there was no insured peril 
involved. He said the wall collapsed due to the build-up of a problem over time. Mr E said 
this wasnt supported by the evidence and the incident should be covered by the policy. 
AXA didnt change its decision and Mr and Mrs E complained. AXA said the damage wasnt 
the result of storm conditions. It said the policy requires: 
 Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) which are equivalent to storm force 
10 on the Beaufort Scale.
 Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour.
 Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours.
 Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
AXA apologised for poor communications from the loss adjusters and paid Mr and Mrs E 
£150 compensation for the stress this caused them. But AXA said the failure of the wall was 
due to wear and tear and this is excluded by the policy:
We will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense caused by:
1. Gradual deterioration / maintenance. Wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or 
the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, 
maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with AXAs response and said his photos after the incident showed 
chalk bedrock and vegetation, which AXAs building inspector initially said had caused the 
incident. Mr E said AXA was wrong as there were two named, concurrent storms. He said 
there had been very high rainfall in the area during September. He said this was consistent 
with AXAs definition of a storm although the rain didnt have an immediate effect.
Mr E said no concerns were raised about the wall by a surveyor who looked at the condition 
of their property separate from the claim. He said a survey several years before had only 
highlighted very minor repointing required for the wall and thered been maintenance work in 
2018 and it had weep holes to facilitate drainage. He said AXA hadnt taken this into account 
in maintaining the collapse as a "wear and tear" failure over time. 
Mr E also asked AXA to consider his claim under the ground movement part of his policy, 
which includes Landslip. AXA said landslip is damage resulting from a sudden movement of 
soil on a slope. It said his wall gave way and allowed a movement of soil rather than the 
other way round. AXA said that in any event the policy excludes damage from landslip to 
boundary or garden walls unless the home is damaged at the same time by the same cause.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the weather conditions 
need to meet the policy definition of storm, but those she had seen and Mr Es report from 
seven miles away show rainfall of insufficient intensity to be categorised as a storm.  She 
said as a consequence, it was reasonable for AXA to decline the storm damage claim. The 
investigator said AXAs loss adjuster explained that the collapse of the wall was caused by 
hydrostatic pressure which is a gradually operating cause, which is excluded by the policy. 
She said Mr Es evidence hadnt shown the wall was damaged by an insured peril. 
Mr E disagreed. He said there were two storms in the weeks before the damage. He said 
this, combined with the bedrock flow rates, property location at the foot of a valley and 
information contradicting the loss adjuster that hydrostatic pressure is a sudden process, 
meant AXA should pay their claim. He requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at AXAs decision about Mr and Mrs Es claim to see if it has acted in 
accordance with the terms of the policy and to see if it has treated them fairly. I think that it 
has, and I will explain my reasons for reaching this conclusion.
Mr E said AXA hasnt treated them fairly as theres documentary evidence from 
professionals from when the wall was standing that it was in good condition, with no concern 
from two independent surveyors. And he said AXA hasnt considered the geological 
information hes provided about the bedrock flows of the chalk base and his homes location.   
Mr and Mrs Es policy covers them for storm damage and so it matters as to the presence or 
otherwise of storm conditions when their home was damaged. Unless it can be shown there 
was a storm, a storm claim must fail. And so, the key question here is was there a storm at 
the relevant time? In other words, was a storm the proximate cause of the collapse of the 
wall? If there was no storm there cant have been any damage caused by storm.
The policy sets out what constitutes a storm (see above). Ive looked at the weather records 
for Mr and Mrs Es local area before and when their wall collapsed, and the weather 
information Mr E sent in. This includes news reports about two named storms to which he 
says the wall collapse is linked. However, both of these reports were from September 2019 
and so about two months before the collapse. I can see there was very heavy rainfall during 
September. But the policy covers sudden, and therefore one-off events, not the build-up of a 
problem over time. The weather reports that the investigator and I have seen from Mr and 
Mrs Es home area dont show evidence of conditions that might constitute a storm. 
I have also considered whether it was fair for AXA to decline Mr and Mrs Es claim under the 
Landslip peril in the policy. From the professional reports, Mr and Mrs Es wall is retaining 
and once it collapsed the soil came through the gap from behind. This would indicate that 
the soil movement was the consequence of the collapse of the wall, not the cause of it. Also, the same wear and tear, gradually deterioration clause (see above) applies to Landslip and 
Storm claims.
I have considered Mr Es information about the ground water, chalk flow rates and location of 
his home, but I dont think this is sufficient to prove the collapse resulted from a sudden 
surge of ground water linked to a storm. From the evidence Ive seen, the damage isnt 
consistent with storm and is indicative of the build-up of hydro-static pressure over time, 
which is an ongoing process and not a one-off event as required by the policy.
The purpose of the exclusion clause for wear and tear and gradual deterioration is to ensure 
that maintenance issues are the responsibility of the policyholder rather than the insurer. I 
think it was reasonable from the evidence for AXA to apply this clause to Mr and Mrs Es 
claim.
AXA declined the claim because it couldnt find evidence of damage consistent with an 
insured peril. And I havent found any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Es wall was 
damaged because of the sudden build-up of ground water due to a storm. And so, I find that 
AXA has acted in accordance with the terms of Mr and Mrs Es policy in declining their claim. 
It follows that I think AXAs decision to decline the claim was fair in the circumstances. 
AXA has apologised for the poor communications from its loss adjuster to Mr and Mrs E and 
paid them £150 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman