DRN-4419143
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tymit Ltd irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
On 17 November 2021, Mr Ss credit card was opened by Tymit Ltd with an initial credit 
limit of £1,500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2023, Mr S complained to Tymit Ltd to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Tymit Ltd ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before opening the credit card for 
him. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Tymit Ltd didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 19 October 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why it was my intention not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I set out an extract 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My 
remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Tymit Ltd will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ss complaint is that Tymit Ltd made credit available that was unaffordable. Tymit Ltd 
has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr S provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they also carried out a credit search in Mr Ss 
name to assess Mr Ss level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Tymit Ltd 
decided to agree to the credit limit of £1,500. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the sale.
The Tymit Ltd checks showed that Mr S had a good credit record. Mr S has provided a 
credit report that features some information from the time of the sale. This supports the 
evidence that was available to Tymit Ltd at the time of the lending decision. Mr Ss credit file 
was very clean at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean that Mr Ss 
management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late 
payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was 
made, Mr S was affording his existing credit. And the total amount of credit was not 
immodest in relation to Mr Ss income at that time. And so, Tymit Ltd were not put on notice 
of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information 
that Tymit Ltd had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they 
ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ss expenditure. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Tymit Ltd at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Tymit Ltd acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, 
would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Ss expenditure more 
closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Tymit Ltd provided to Mr S was unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 2 November 2023. Tymit Ltd responded acknowledging receipt of 
my provisional decision. They said they have nothing further to add. Mr S has acknowledged 
receipt of the provisional decision and has not accepted my provisional findings. 
As Mr S has provided his further submission for me to consider before I issue the final 
decision, I am proceeding to my final decision now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has not accepted my provisional findings and has made a further submission for me to 
consider. I have noted the default on Mr Ss credit report. It dates back to 2017 and was 
settled later that same year for a very modest amount. I am not aware if Tymit Ltd were 
aware of that at the time of the lending decision on 17 November 2021 or whether they were 
aware and factored it into their credit decision. 
In any event, the default was some four years before the lending decision and had been 
settled for a very modest amount more than four years before the lending decision was 
made. So, I am not persuaded that this should have been sufficient either to put Tymit Ltd off 
providing Mr S with credit or to have made them conduct more searching enquiries into Mr 
Ss expenditure before providing credit.
Mr S thinks his existing credit utilisation was already too high, such that he thinks Tymit 
Ltd should have avoided adding to it. I must reach my decision using the information that 
was available to Tymit Ltd, or could have been sought by them, at the time they made 
their lending decision. I cannot use hindsight. 
At the time that Tymit Ltd made their lending decision, Mr Ss credit report was showing 
no recent history of anything but well managed credit. And so, I do not think that Tymit Ltd 
were irresponsible to provide further lending to Mr S, taking into account his income and 
existing borrowing at the time. 
Having considered all of the submissions made in this case afresh, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to persuade me that Tymit Ltd should have made more searching 
enquiries into Mr Ss expenditure or to have avoided providing him with the credit they did 
in November 2021.My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman