DRN-2312610
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax plc (Halifax) transferred his money 
to Egypt in US Dollars (USD) rather than pounds sterling (GBP) which meant that he was 
unable to access it when he arrived in Egypt and lost money in the purchase of a property. 
 
What happened
Mr S holds a current account with Halifax. For 7 or 8 years prior to January 2020,  Mr S 
regularly transferred money to his bank account in Egypt. These transfers were always 
made in GBP as his account in Egypt is only able to receive funds in GBP.  
On 24 January 2020 Mr S went into his local branch of Halifax to make a transfer of 
£5029.50 to his account in Egypt. Mr S told us that he asked for the transfer to be made in 
GBP as usual. 
Mr S told us that he was making the transfer as he was travelling to Egypt the following day 
and needed the funds to pay the second half of a deposit on a flat he was purchasing. He 
had paid the first half of the deposit on 1 October 2019, and was required to make the 
second payment by the end of January 2020 or he would lose his deposit. 
On 25 January 2020 Mr S travelled to Egypt as planned. When he arrived, he went to the 
bank to withdraw the transferred funds but was told that they had not been received. 
Mr S rang his Halifax branch on 29 January 2020 and spoke to a member of staff who told 
him to ring the Customer Services line about it. Mr S has said that he could not get through 
to the Customer Services line.  
When Mr S returned to England he went to his local branch of Halifax on 21 February 2020 
to find out why the money had not arrived. He was told that the transfer had been made in 
USD in error. Halifax then made a request on Mr Ss behalf to return the funds from the 
Egyptian bank.  
Mr S told us that as a result of the failure of the transfer, he was unable to make the required 
payment by 31 January 2020 to secure the flat, he lost his deposit of 75000 Egyptian pounds 
(EGP),  wasted an air fare of £395 and did not enjoy his time in Egypt with his family 
because he had no money.  
  
Mr S complained to Halifax and they issued their final response on 3 March 2020. They have 
not upheld the complaint. Halifax said that Mr S would have been asked to check the details 
and consent to the transfer before it was made. The default currency on transfers to Egypt is 
USD. Mr S consented to the transaction by entering his PIN number to complete it. 
Therefore, there was no bank error. 
They also noted that Mr S declined a receipt for the transaction, so he would not have been 
alerted to the transfer being in USD, which would have been on the receipt. 
However, a gesture of goodwill, they have paid £65.00 into Mr Ss account to cover the 
difference between what left and came back to the account, and the £9.50 charge. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ss complaint. He looked at what Halifaxs 
process should have been when making an international payment, and whether they had 
followed that process. He thought that it was likely that Mr S had not been made aware of 
the payment being in USD. This is because Halifaxs process requires them to tell the 
customer about any exchange rate and the conversion. If Halifax had advised Mr S about 
the exchange rate, he would have been alerted to the fact that it was not a GBP transaction, 
and would have changed it.  
However, the investigator did not think he can fairly say that the transfer being sent in the 
wrong currency was solely responsible for the instalment not being paid, and therefore he 
was unable to ask Halifax to cover the lost deposit on the flat. 
The investigator did think that Halifax should have made Mr S aware of the exchange rate 
though, and thought that they had not done enough to recognise the distress and upset 
caused by the mistake. He therefore awarded an additional £100 for trouble and upset.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I think that it is unlikely Mr S would have authorised the international payment if it had been 
properly explained to him that the transfer was in USD. Mr S has always made his transfers 
in GBP and Im satisfied that he would not have authorised a transfer to his account in a 
currency that he knew would not be accepted. 
I note that the international payments process Halifax has provided us with requires the 
customer to be advised of the amount of the transfer, the currency, the total amount being 
debited including any fee, the exchange rate being used and the date. If the member of staff 
had fully advised Mr S in accordance with this process, I think the use of an exchange rate 
for the transfer to USD would have alerted Mr S to the fact that the transfer was not in GBP. I 
therefore think that it is more likely than not that on this occasion the right information was 
not given to Mr S and the transfer was made in USD without him being aware. I note that 
USD is the default currency for transfers to Egypt. However, I note too that Halifax told us 
that Mr S would have had to had to sign for the transfer, although I have not seen this 
document and Mr S may not have noted the exchange rate without it being pointed out to 
him given the regularity with which he made the transfers.    
In all the circumstances I am therefore satisfied that Halifax were at least partly responsible 
for the mistake which caused the transfer to be made in USD and therefore not arrive in Mr 
Ss bank account.   I then have to consider what impact that mistake had on Mr S and how to put him back in the 
position he would have been in if the mistake had not happened.   
Mr S has provided us with a copy of the contract for the purchase of the flat in Egypt. It 
confirms that a first instalment of 75000 EGP was due no later than 31 January 2020 and if 
the payment was not made on time, the deposit of 75000 EGP which was paid on 1 October 
2019 would be forfeited. The total cost of the flat was 600000 EGP with instalments of 
150000 EGP due annually each January until 2023. 
Mr S has also provided us with a letter from the seller of the property confirming that he 
terminated the contract because the payment was not made on 31 January 2020. He says 
that he gave Mr S two weeks grace to sort the funds out, but when they were not paid, the 
agreement was terminated and he retained the deposit paid as per the agreement. 
While I appreciate that losing the deposit on the property will have been distressing for Mr S, 
I cannot fairly say that the banks error directly caused this loss.  
The funds being transferred by international payment were to Mr Ss bank account, not to 
the seller of the property, and I have not seen any evidence which shows that this transfer 
was specifically for the purpose of buying a flat. Mr S did not make the bank aware that this 
was the purpose of the funds or advise them of the importance or urgency of it. 
  
I have not seen any financial evidence of Mr Ss initial payment, nor of his resources in his 
Egyptian Bank account, so I cannot see any direct link between the error of the bank, and 
the inability to make the payment. 
Even if I had been provided with more documentation, I still dont think that I can directly find 
that Mr Ss loss is solely the banks responsibility. 
It was Mr Ss responsibility to fulfil the terms of the flat purchase contract, and to make sure 
that he had sufficient funds to do so. I note that an International Payment takes up to 12 
days to clear according to Halifaxs process, so Mr S was not leaving himself sufficient time 
to ensure a payment cleared. I also think Mr S could have done more to pursue Halifax 
about the payment in the two weeks grace period given by the vendor to sort out the missing 
funds. 
In view of that I cannot ask the bank to refund the 75000 EGP that Mr S has lost. 
However, as I have said above, Im not satisfied that Halifax followed its process when 
completing the transaction and as a result I do think the bank were responsible for the initial 
mistake, which will have caused Mr S worry and upset during his stay in Egypt, not knowing 
where his funds had gone, and how to retrieve them. Halifax have refunded the fee and the 
difference in the funds returned to the account, but they have not made any award for the 
inconvenience caused. 
I agree with the investigator that an additional amount of £100 should be paid to cover any 
inconvenience to Mr S arising from the Halifaxs failure to follow its own process.  My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should make a payment of £100 
to Mr S.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman