DRN-3949013
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a Gold and 
Premier packaged bank account. Their account history is as follows.
Gold account that Mr and Mrs F say was taken out in 1994
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account in July 2008
Mr and Mrs F say they did not request either account, were hoodwinked into the second 
Premier account and did not need the benefits the accounts came with.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the sale of both accounts and they didnt think that Lloyds had 
mis-sold it to them.  Mr and Mrs F disagreed with this and therefore their complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
I should explain that were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to 
the courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place 
more weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up 
all the information were given.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr and 
Mrs F and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Gold account
In relation to the Gold account, given how long ago it was taken out it is not entirely clear 
what benefits the account came with initially. That said from the limited information that we 
do have one of the benefits of the account was access to larger overdraft facilities than were 
available on a standard account and an overdraft usage fee was waived if the account was 
held. From what I can see Mr and Mrs F regularly used a large overdraft facility so I think 
that account was probably taken out by Mr and Mrs F knowing it was optional for the 
financial benefits the account came with. I also should add from Lloyds earliest records it 
does not seem that Mr and Mrs F ever paid a fee for this account.
Premier account 
Mr and Mrs F have explained that Mrs F was pressurised into taking the account and they 
never wanted the account. They have also said after it was sold to them their personal bank 
manager said that they should not have been sold the account and in fact they would ensure 
that they did not pay a fee for this account.
In relation to the sale itself I think that Mrs F would reasonably have been aware that she did 
not have to agree to or indeed sign for the change to the Premier account if she did not wish 
to do so. Whilst I dont doubt the sincerity of Mr and Mrs Fs recollections, I think it more 
likely that Mrs F was explained the financial implications of taking the account and that by 
taking the Premier account Mr and Mrs F would save more money in overdraft interest than 
the cost of the account. And they would get additional benefits not available on the Gold 
account.
To explain, at the time the Premier account was taken out  it cost £25 a month and provided 
Worldwide travel insurance, comprehensive breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and 
home emergency cover. Importantly, it came with a £500 interest free overdraft buffer, with 
preferential rates for overdrafts used above this amount (up to the agreed limit).
I need to consider whether Lloyds recommendation to upgrade to the Premier account was 
reasonable in the circumstances. When considering this, I have taken various factors into 
account, including the fact they had a £10,500 agreed overdraft limit at the time. 
In this instance, the main differences between the Premier account and the Gold account 
(that they already held) was that for £25.00 a month more, they would not pay interest on the 
first £500 of their overdraft, rather than £100 on the Gold account. And they received a 
reduced interest rate on the remainder of their overdraft  which was around 6% less than 
the Gold account charged. Given the size of the overdraft they had, putting aside all of the  
other features of the account, it seems that the additional savings they would receive in 
overdraft interest alone, would potentially outweigh the additional cost of having the Premier 
account at the time the account was taken out.
 
In addition to this, the Premier account offered home emergency cover, which the Gold 
account did not, and better breakdown cover than the Gold account. It also came with travel 
insurance and mobile phone insurance. Mr and Mrs F have explained that they did not need 
the travel insurance or mobile phone insurance as they held this elsewhere. But I can see 
that they went on to use the travel insurance twice after this account was taken out. I note 
that Mr and Mrs F dispute this and say they made only one claim and this was when they 
held the Gold account. However, I have the details of the claims and they happened after the 
Premier account was taken out. I also can see that Mr and Mrs F registered mobile phone 
handsets with the mobile phone insurance provider in February 2014 which suggests that 
they may have been intending to use this cover. Again Mr and Mrs F dispute this and say 
they had their own cover. But Lloyds has provided evidence of the handset models and the 
telephone numbers that the handsets were operated with, and I dont reasonably think that 
they would have gone to the trouble of providing Lloyds with the details of their phones if 
they were not intending to rely on the cover that it provided.
So I think that Lloyds recommending the Premier account was not unreasonable given Mr 
and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it was taken out.
 
I accept that Mr and Mrs F may not have been told everything during the sale, about all of 
the benefits that the account came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr and 
Mrs Fs circumstances, that makes me think they wouldve been put off from agreeing to 
them, had they been given even more information about the benefits that the accounts came 
with.
Mr and Mrs F have said that they were promised by their personal account manager that 
they would receive the Premier account for free forever. I have asked Lloyds for the comments of the member of staff in question. Lloyds has explained that it cannot find the 
member of staff in question and that in any event it is unlikely that a personal account 
manager would recall a conversation that happened almost 14 years ago. I have considered 
what both parties have said and I believe that had Mr and Mrs F been promised the Premier 
account for free they would have queried it earlier than they did especially as they have paid 
this fee for almost the last 14 years. So overall there is not enough for me to say that Mr and 
Mrs F agreed to the account in the belief that they would get the account for free forever.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr and Mrs F may now 
believe, that they feel that the Premier account was mis-sold. But based on what Mr and Mrs 
F has said, alongside all of the available evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more 
likely than not that their Premier account was mis-sold.
 
Finally, I should explain that this decision represents the last stage in our process and there 
is no further recourse to appeal or discuss the merits of this complaint further within this 
service.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman