DRN-3398131
The complaint
O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked and closed its accounts without a 
reason or explanation. O wants compensation of £100,000.
O is represented by their advisers I will refer to as FCA.
What happened
O had accounts with NatWest.
On 24 July 2020 Os account was blocked. It received a Notice to close dated 27 July 2020 
giving O 7 days notice of closure. The account remained blocked.
O says there were £125,000 of client money in the account. The block and sudden closure 
of the account meant O was unable to fulfil its obligations to its client. It suffered loss of 
business and goodwill as well as loss of credit facilities and distress and inconvenience.
O complained to NatWest who said it was entitled to review and close the account. O 
complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed, blocked and subsequently closed 
the accounts. The investigator accepted this would have caused Os directors frustration. He 
didnt think NatWest was obliged to give O a reason for their actions. He didnt think NatWest 
were obliged to pay compensation to O as they hadnt acted unfairly. 
O was unhappy with the view. It said the funds were blocked without notice and the funds 
didnt belong to O but to its clients and therefore the bank shouldnt have blocked and 
withheld the funds from O. O said no evidence was produced by NatWest why the account 
was blocked. It wanted to know who would be held responsible for the loss of trust, revenue 
and the extra charges that it incurred. O referred to a similar case on the FOS website.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Os accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied NatWest were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Os accounts. 
NatWest blocked Os accounts on 24 July 2020. I can see that in blocking the accounts the 
bank was following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant say NatWest was 
unfair. I have also checked if NatWest completed the review in a timely manner and Im 
satisfied they did.
NatWest sent O a notice to close letter dated 27 July 2020.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether NatWest acted fairly in closing Os accounts. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case NatWest closed Os 
accounts without notice. For NatWest to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
O has said that the funds in the account dont belong to O but to clients- I appreciate what O 
is saying here but the banks regulatory obligations are not suspended because the money 
in any given account is client money. So I cant say NatWest acted unfairly when it complied 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Reasons
Whilst O may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, NatWest isnt required 
to give O a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say NatWest has done 
anything wrong by not giving O this information  as much as O would like to know.
Compensation
O has requested compensation of £100,000. I appreciate that O has lost business and 
goodwill as a result of the account block and closure. And Im satisfied that O got access to 
its funds on 20 August 2020. Os representatives have asked who will be liable for these 
losses. I appreciate the frustrations that Os directors have had, but as Ive said NatWest 
acted fairly when they reviewed, blocked and closed the account so I cant hold them liable 
for the losses incurred by O.
FOS case study
Os representatives have mentioned a case study on FOS website where the facts are 
similar. I appreciate that O may feel, because the facts are similar, both cases should have 
the same outcome. However, each case is looked at on the evidence provided by both 
parties. I have considered all the evidence and Im satisfied that NatWest acted correctly in 
the actions it took. I know this will be disappointing to O, but I dont think NatWest have done 
anything wrong and as Ive already said I cant hold them liable for Os losses.
O wants to know what information NatWest relied on to block and close the account. Our 
rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains information about other customers or security information. Some of the information the business has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman