DRN-2771227
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Zenith Insurance plcs (Zenith) decision to settle a third-party claim 
and their lack of communication. Mrs J wants Zenith to recover the costs they have paid out. 
What happened
Mrs J was involved in a collision with a third-party and notified Zenith that an impact 
occurred with ladders on the roof of the third-partys vehicle. A claim was made by the third-
party but Mrs J disputed the amount of damage being claimed. She said she only hit the 
ladders and didnt cause any damage to the third-partys vehicle.   
Zenith settled the claim with the third-party but said they would attempt to recover some of 
the costs. Zenith later decided they had insufficient evidence to prove they werent liable for 
the incident and wouldnt be successful in pursuing recovery of the costs paid. Mrs J 
complained about Zeniths decision and said the claim had an impact on her husbands 
insurance premium as she features as a named driver. Zenith responded and said they are 
entitled to settle a claim on behalf of Mrs J. They didnt uphold the complaint but agreed to 
allow Mrs Js no claims discount to assist with the increased premiums. Zenith did uphold 
Mrs Js complaint about the lack of communication and delays and paid £300 compensation.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs J. She thought there had been a lack of 
communication and delays and felt the £300 paid by Zenith is reasonable. She thought 
Zenith hadnt acted unfairly in deciding not to pursue the third-party for recovery of monies. 
Mrs J disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs J will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The claim 
My starting point is Mrs Js car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says she is covered for damage to a third partys vehicle. It also says, under 
the heading General conditions, We are entitled to take full control of any claim and we 
must be given whatever information and help we need. We can prosecute or defend any 
claim in your name. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Zenith to make a decision on the claim as the policy 
allows them to take such steps.
That said, the reason why they decided against pursuing the third-party for recovery of 
monies paid is because they feel there was insufficient evidence to prove they werent liable. 
So, Ive considered whether Zenith acted fairly and reasonably in taking this view. 
Case notes provided by Zenith show that when Mrs J first reports the incident to them, they 
note that Mrs J was driving and as she turned the corner there was a parked and unattended 
vehicle with ladders on the roof. Mrs J then collided with the ladders. 
Zenith then instruct a vehicle assessment specialist  who Ill refer to as company B  to 
inspect Mrs Js vehicle. The engineer who inspects the vehicle prepares a report which 
notes some damage to the vehicle  which they say is old damage. The report also says 
there are marks and blemishes all around the vehicle. The engineer then says In my 
opinion this vehicle has suffered no damage in the incident The report also says Mrs J 
denies hitting the third-party vehicle but accepts she did hit a ladder being carried on the 
third-party vehicle. 
I can see Zenith write to Mrs J to say they have paid the third-party on a without prejudice 
basis to end any ongoing daily losses, but the money is recoverable at any point. They say 
they have reviewed company Bs report and it seems pretty clear cut to me and I have 
requested clawback of the monies paid. They say they have allowed the no claims discount 
until the money is recovered and the claim can be removed from the claim database. The 
third-party insurer then send Zenith an engineers report which describes the damage to their 
insureds vehicle.     
The third-party insurer challenge company Bs findings. Ive seen that Mrs J continues to 
dispute any damage being caused to the third-party vehicle. Zenith then instruct a loss 
adjuster and claim specialist  who Ill refer to as company Q. They say Mrs J told them the 
third-party vehicle was parked and unattended with a set of ladders secured to the roof. And 
she admits she made contact with the ladders which caused them to slide forward onto the 
bonnet of the third-party vehicle. In a witness statement Mrs J admits fault but says there 
was no damage to either vehicle. The report prepared by company Q also contains photos of 
the third-party vehicle.    
Zenith write to Mrs J to say, based on the evidence they have received from the third-party 
insurer, the damage to the third-party vehicle is consistent with their allegations and its very 
unlikely they will be able to defend the claim. They ask Mrs J to send her footage to 
company Q so it can be reviewed and Zenith can then issue a final stance in the matter. 
Once all information is received, its reviewed by a senior member of staff who decides 
Zenith are unable to recover the monies paid.   
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the damage and the 
claim, and thats what Zenith did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Zenith 
to rely on the experts comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Company Bs 
report supports Mrs Js account of there being no damage to her vehicle. So, I understand 
why Zenith then notify Mrs J that they will attempt to recover the monies they have paid out. 
But I can see the third-party challenge the findings and dont believe the report to be 
conclusive as Mrs Js vehicle has damage around the vehicle. They say its speculative to 
view this as only being pre-existing damage. I think Zenith then take appropriate steps to 
gather further information and also by instructing company Q. I cant see this produces any 
information which Zenith believe would present a strong and persuasive argument to 
challenge liability.     
I think its important for me to point out my role isnt to determine the outcome of the claim - 
that responsibility rests with Zenith. My role is to determine whether Zenith have handled the 
claim fairly and reasonably. 
I think the information Zenith have considered is relevant to carry out an assessment and to 
then form an opinion. So, taking this into account, I cant say Zenith have acted unfairly in 
relying on the evidence presented to them to assess whether there are grounds to pursue recovery of the monies paid out. I can see Mrs J says the report from the third-party 
engineer doesnt comment on how the damage occurred and also queries why the engineer 
wasnt asked to look at whether this damage is consistent with any damage to Mrs Js 
vehicle. While I cant see anything to suggest either of the engineers did carry out such a 
cross-reference assessment, this doesnt persuade me that Zenith have acted unreasonably. 
I say this because they have considered other material information. This includes the 
comments from their own expert, the third-party engineer and Mrs Js own testimony. 
I can see Mrs J strongly denies having collided with the third-party vehicle  and shes 
maintained this position throughout. But its important to note the risk of litigation rests with 
an insurer so they have to carefully consider whether there are merits in proceeding with a 
defence. I do take on board Mrs Js point about there being a supportive report and photos 
and recorded footage provided by her. But, given the challenge by the third-party insurer 
based on there being marks and blemishes all around the vehicle, I can understand why 
Zenith decide to look beyond just company Bs report. And, the fact is, theres no dispute 
that a collision has occurred, its only around whether the third-party vehicle was hit. So, 
Zenith have to consider the likelihood of being able to successfully defend a claim where Mrs 
J accepts a collision did occur. And, for this reason I dont think it was unfair for Zenith to 
decide they didnt have grounds to pursue recovery of monies from the third-party.  
Mrs J has my sympathy as I can see this has been a very upsetting event for her. She feels 
the claim is fraudulent and she has now been left in a position where theres a claim 
recorded against her and shes facing a higher premium. We expect insurers to investigate 
claims fairly and to take into consideration all information which is material. And, for the 
reasons I have mentioned, I think Zenith have. 
 
Communication 
Theres no dispute about this part of the complaint. Zenith accept they got things wrong by 
causing delays in the handling of the claim and the lack of communication with Mrs J. I can 
see Mrs J has had to chase for updates and things have taken longer than they should have. 
I think its right that Zenith should compensate Mrs J for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused. I think the £300 paid to Mrs J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman