DRN-1710562
Complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD 
have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this 
decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered him in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ss store card application gave a brief overview of what PPI was for and its basic cost. It 
had a place Mr S could sign if he wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. 
Mr S signed specifically for PPI, separately to signing his application as a whole. I think his 
form made his choice clear. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Mr S was misled 
into having PPI, nor have I seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time. 
So I think its most likely that AXA made Mr S aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls 
doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so they didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
They did have to give Mr S enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mr S about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr S chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.
The PPI covered Mr S for much longer than his sick pay, and he doesnt seem to have had 
any other protection in case he lost his job. I understand Mr Ss family may have been happy 
to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
policy meant Mr S wouldnt have to ask other people to pay his store card. So the policy 
could have been useful for Mr S in case something went wrong. It was competitively priced 
compared to similar policies given how much it would pay out in a claim, and Ive not seen 
any evidence which shows it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman