DRN-3222157
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way in which Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) handled the end of a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr M entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement for a new car. At 
the end of the three-year term he had the option of keeping the car and taking ownership on 
payment of a lump sum of over £25,000. In the meantime, he made monthly payments, 
taken by direct debit.
Towards the end of the hire purchase period, Mr M indicated that he wanted to make the 
lump sum payment and take ownership of the car. He discussed the options with MBFS 
which indicated that he should make the lump sum payment by direct transfer but keep the 
direct debit instruction in place so that the final monthly payment could be taken. 
In the event, the lump sum payment was requested twice under the direct debit instruction, 
the second time successfully. MBFS admits that this was the result of a manual error on its 
part. The payment was refunded almost immediately. MBFS apologised and offered Mr M 
compensation of £25. Mr M did not accept MBFSs offer and referred the matter to this 
service. He said he wanted £1,000 to settle the complaint. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and recommended that MBFS increase its 
offer to £50, which it agreed to do. Mr M did not accept the investigators view and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute about the facts here, and for that reason I have not felt it necessary to 
set them out in any great detail. Nor is it in dispute that the confusion around the final 
monthly payment and the lump sum payment was the result of an error on the part of MBFS. 
The only issue I have to consider is whether the increased offer of £50  prompted by the 
investigators preliminary assessment  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I have no doubt that Mr M was caused some concern by the confusion over the payments. 
Its clear as well that dealing with the end of the finance agreement took more of his time 
than it should have done. Its right that he should receive some compensation for those 
matters. I also think that the original offer of £25 was not enough in the circumstances. 
MBFS did however acknowledge its mistake and apologised for it promptly. And it took 
action to ensure that Mr M was not left out of pocket. In the circumstances, I do not think that 
a payment of £1,000  which is what Mr M is seeking  would be fair. I agree with the 
investigator that £50 is appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ms complaint in full, Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited should pay him £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman