DRN-3409397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handling and settlement of a 
claim, on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R found a leak coming from their roof into a bathroom. The leak caused 
damaged internally including to the flooring in their home. They contacted UKI to make a 
claim. It sent a surveyor who concluded that the damage to the roof was caused by wear 
and tear. And because of this, UKI wouldnt cover the cost to repair the roof. 
As to the internal damage caused by the leak, UKI said that this would be covered under the 
terms of the policy. But UKI said that it would cover 100% of the damage in the bathroom as 
the damage was caused by the leak. 
Mr and Mrs R said that the flooring was designed and laid continuously, that is, without any 
breaks to other areas in their home. So, they wanted UKI to replace the entire flooring 
(including the undamaged area) to ensure continuity.
UKI refused to cover the full cost of the flooring. It originally offered Mr and Mrs R £515 (less 
an excess of £200) for the repairs. But it increased its offer to include 100% cost of the 
damage in the bathroom and a contribution to the remaining undamaged flooring of 25%.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy by this as they felt that UKI ought to replace the entire floor. 
They also complained that UKI had caused delays and there was poor service. UKI 
accepted this and offered £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But Mr and 
Mrs R were still unhappy and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
concluded that UKI were fair to reject the repairs to the roof, as the damage wasnt covered 
under the policy. She felt that the £150 offered for the poor service, was reasonable. As to 
the flooring, she said that a fair resolution would be for UKI to increase its offer to 50% for 
the undamaged flooring. She also said that UKI should pay 100% of the cost of the repairs to 
the bathroom, as well as the flooring that had been damaged. 
UKI accepted the view, Mr and Mrs R initially accepted the view, but later asked for an 
ombudsman decision. They felt that UKI were not adhering to the recommended outcome, in 
that they sought to give Mr and Mrs R a cash settlement for the work. Whereas, Mr and Mrs 
R wanted UKIs contractors to carry out the repairs. They also said that the quality of the 
flooring that UKI offered, wasnt of the same standard as the original flooring in their home.  
So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this may be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr and Mrs R said that they wanted UKI to carry out the repairs and didnt want UKI to offer 
a cash settlement which it did, following our investigators view. 
UKI has said that its contractor wont carry out the repairs as Mr and Mrs R are liable to pay 
50% of the costs of the undamaged flooring. It did confirm that the quality of the flooring will 
be on a like for like basis, as Mr and Mrs R were concerned that UKI would use an inferior 
quality flooring. 
I think the main issues of this complaint are whether UKI are fair and reasonable to offer a 
cash settlement and whether the quality of the flooring UKI said would be used, is of a lower 
standard than Mr and Mrs Rs original flooring. 
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what UKIs obligations are. Under the 
section entitled How we settle claims, it confirms the following: If the buildings are 
damaged by any of the causes listed in [Section 1], we will either:  repair or rebuild the 
damaged part using our suppliers; pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your 
suppliers; make a cash payment.
Mr and Mrs R havent provided any details of any contractors that they could use. Instead, 
they have requested that UKIs contractors carry out the repairs. UKI has confirmed that its 
contractors wont carry out the repairs. So, under the terms of the policy, it seems that the 
only option available to UKI would be to offer Mr and Mrs R a cash settlement.
During the course of my investigations regarding this complaint, I asked UKI for further 
information about whether it was able to secure the services of an alternative contractor, 
who might be able to carry out the work. It replied that In July 2022, Mr and Mrs R accepted 
a full and final cash settlement. The settlement was derived based on our investigators 
recommendation in her view, which would mean that Mr and Mrs R would be responsible for 
a 50% payment towards the cost of the flooring. The settlement amounted to £5,620.72, 
which was bank transferred to Mr and Mrs R on 12 July 2022. 
Mr and Mrs R were contacted to check that the offer had been made and that they accepted 
the payment. They confirmed acceptance of the payment but said that they felt pressurised 
to accept the cash settlement. 
I asked UKI about this and was provided with an email trail from Mr and Mrs R. That email 
trail showed that it was Mr and Mrs R who initiated the request for the cash settlement, and it 
was upon this request from them, that UKI then paid the cash settlement.  
Having considered the contents of the email trail, I cant agree that there is evidence of 
duress, as it would appear that Mr and Mrs R asked for the settlement and UKI acceded to 
their request. 
In the circumstances, I think the cash settlement is fair and one that I would have ultimately 
recommended. As Mr and Mrs R have now accepted the settlement and UKI has confirmed 
that it could no longer instruct contractors as the cash settlement had been accepted. Im 
satisfied that both parties have entered into a binding settlement agreement and I cant see 
any evidence of duress that would mean that the agreement would need to be set aside. Putting things right
UK Insurance Limited should put matters right, as I direct below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
UK Insurance Limited has made a cash settlement payment of £5,620.72, which has been 
accepted by Mr and Mrs R. And Im satisfied that this is fair, in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman