DRN-3370290
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about a mortgage they hold with Santander UK Plc. They are 
unhappy that their internet banking for the mortgage gave them contained incorrect 
information about overpayments that could be made on the tracker rate products and so they 
delayed taking out a new interest rate product. They stated that had the information been 
correct, they would have moved on to a two-year tracker rate in August 2020. They believe 
they have been disadvantaged by this, as they moved on to a reversion rate for a period and 
by the time they took their new product, the interest rate available was higher.
In addition, Mrs K feels that she was treated poorly and disrespectfully by a particular 
member of Santanders staff and that persons manager. Mr and Mrs K are also unhappy 
that an offer to refund some interest on the mortgage was retracted following Santanders 
investigation of their complaint. 
In settlement of the complaint, Mr and Mrs K want Santander to accept that its mistake cost 
them a more advantageous interest rate product, for Santander to pay all the interest paid on 
the account from August 2020 and give them an interest rate product they could have 
applied for in August 2020.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ks interest rate product was due to expire on 2 December 2020. They began 
making enquiries about replacing it in August 2020.
On 14 August 2020 Mrs K discussed the options available for the mortgage with a mortgage 
adviser. Mrs K explained that shes been looking at the rates available for their mortgage, 
which were based in a loan-to-value (LTV) above 75%. She wanted to know what the 
options would be if the LTV was lowered. It was confirmed that the next rate down was 75% 
LTV and that just over £5,300 would need to be paid off the mortgage balance to reach that 
percentage. Mrs K wanted to look into the rates available for 75% LTV. The adviser gave her 
information about both tracker rates and fixed rates for that LTV  both with and without 
booking fees. Mrs K said that she wanted to think about the information shed been given 
and discuss it with Mr K. It was arranged that the mortgage adviser would call her back later 
that day.
When the mortgage adviser called Mrs K back, Mrs K confirmed that she and Mr K had 
decided that they would reduce the mortgage balance to qualify for the 75% LTV rates and 
wanted the three-year fixed rate with no boking fee. There was some discussion about what 
would happen if Mr and Mrs K decided to move within the three-year product term. Mrs K 
then concluded that a two-year fixed rate might be better for them. The adviser then asked 
some questions about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances. Mrs K confirmed that they while they 
had more in savings than the £5,300 they were proposing to reduce the mortgage balance 
by, they didnt want to pay any more off. When the adviser asked if there was any 
expectation of more lump sums that Mr and Mrs K would want to pay off the mortgage in the 
future, Mrs K confirmed there was not. The conversation then went on to why Mr and Mrs K 
wanted a fixed rate rather than a tracked. Mrs K confirmed that the trackers would be more 
expensive and it was better for them to know what they would be paying. Mrs K also 
explained that she had done some calculations and had worked out that it wasnt cost 
effective to pay a booking fee. The adviser recommended a 1.64% two-year fixed rate with 
no booking fee payable. A product switch offer was sent to Mr and Mrs K. The offer was 
dependant on the LTV being reduced to 75%.
Less than a week later, Mrs K called Santander and spoke to another mortgage adviser. She 
explained that shed had discussions the previous week about reducing the LTV to 75% and 
fixing the interest rate. She asked about the tracker rates available and whether they 
changed based on LTV. The adviser confirmed that if Mrs K took out a two-year tracker at 
the current LTV, she would receive a rate of 1.59% above Bank of England (BoE) base rate. 
At 75% LTV the rate would be 1.39% above BoE base rate. Both would involve paying a 
£999 booking fee. Mrs K said that she would prefer not to pay a fee, and the adviser 
confirmed that the only tracker available without a fee was the lifetime tracker follow-on rate 
of 3.25% above BoE base rate, which her mortgage would revert to automatically if she 
didnt take a new rate. Mrs K was told how much the monthly payment for the two-year 
tracker rate. There was then some discussion about what would happen if Mr and Mrs K 
took a fixed rate and needed to move if one of them lost their job. It was confirmed that the 
only situation the early repayment charge would be waived would be due to the death of one 
of the borrowers. 
Two days later Mrs K called Santander again. She explained that they had received a 
product offer for a two-year fixed rate, but she and Mr K were thinking that they would prefer 
a three-year rate. Mrs K was transferred to a mortgage adviser. The mortgage adviser went 
through the same questions as had been asked the previous week. Mrs K again confirmed 
that they were not expecting any lump sums in the future that they might want to pay off the 
mortgage. She was asked why they wanted a fixed rate. Mrs K confirmed that shed asked 
about trackers and theyd thought about it, but they wanted to know what they would be 
paying going forward. She also confirmed that they wanted the three-year fixed rate to give 
them a bit more time knowing what their payments would be, as it wasnt known what 
interest rates would do. The adviser recommended a three-year 1.64% fixed rate and a 
product offer was sent to Mr and Mrs K. It was dependant on them reducing the mortgage 
balance to the LTV was 75%. 
Subsequently Mr and Mrs K were also sent another product offer. This time Santander didnt 
provide any advice. The offer was for a 1.09% five-year fixed rate. The offer assumed that 
the mortgage balance would be reduced by around £100,000. 
On 26 November 2020 Mrs K called Santander twice. In the first call, which was with the 
person she has said treated her poorly and disrespectfully, Mrs K questioned the information 
contained on her internet banking page. This detailed that no matter whether she took a 
fixed or tracker product, there was an overpayment allowance of 10%. However, shed 
looked at Santanders website and that said that unlimited payments could be made on 
tracker products. She questioned which was right. It was confirmed that unlimited payments 
could be made to a tracker without penalty, but on a fixed rate the maximum was 10%. 
Mrs K explained that they had three properties they were trying to sell by the summer of 
2021 and wanted a product where they wouldnt be penalised for paying lump sums off the 
mortgage. She said that had the internet banking, showing what rates she was eligible for, 
been correct, she and Mr K would have taken the two-year tracker rate two months earlier. 
That would have meant they would have got a lower tracker rate, by about 0.3%. Mrs K went 
on to explain that they were expecting the money from a property sale and wanted to get it 
before taking a new rate.  
Santander told Mrs K that it couldnt give her the earlier product, as it was no longer 
available. However, the issue with internet banking would be reported and they could look at what was available at that time. There was some further discussion and Mrs K indicated that 
she would like Santander to look into what it could do for her, given its mistake. The adviser 
doesnt appear to have behaved inappropriately in this conversation and Mrs K doesnt 
appear to have been concerned about the tone or nature of the discussions at the time. 
Indeed, I note that when she called back later that day she asked to speak to the same 
member of staff.
The second call on that date involved Mrs K asking for some figures for monthly payments, 
assuming lump sum payments were made to reduce the LTV. She was told how much 
needed to be paid to reduce the LTV to 75% and that the two-year tracker rate (involving a 
booking fee) would be 1.69% above BoE base rate. It was also confirmed that just under 
£45,000 would need to be paid off the mortgage to take the mortgage into the lowest LTV 
bracket of 60%. This would allow a two-year tracker rate to be applied at 1.39% above BoE 
base rate. This rate would also involve a booking fee being paid. Mrs K asked to reserve 
both rates, but was told that only one reservation could be made. She opted to reserve the 
lower tracker rate to be applied when she received the money from the property sale. A 
product offer was sent.
Santander took Mrs Ks expression of dissatisfaction with the information she had been 
given as a complaint. It didnt uphold the complaint and highlighted that there had been 
several conversations with both fixed and tracker rate products being discussed. It 
apologised for the incorrect information on its website, but it didnt consider that had 
influenced Mr and Mrs Ks decision about overpayments. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept what Santander had said and it provided a second response to 
the complaint shortly thereafter. It repeated that having listened to the conversations Mrs K 
had with its representatives, it was satisfied that she understood both tracker and fixed rates 
in respect of overpayments and early repayment charges (ERC). Santander didnt consider 
that Mr and Mrs K had been disadvantaged or suffered any distress due to the mistake it had 
made, so no payment was offered. 
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs K reduced their mortgage by enough to move them into the 
60% LTV bracket and accepted the product offer they had been sent in November 2020. The 
two-year tracker was added to their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy with the responses they received from Santander and referred 
the complaint to this service. When doing so, they said that they hadnt made a complaint 
and that Santander had refused them the opportunity to send a formal complaint to it. In 
addition, they expressed concerns about how Santander had investigated the complaint. 
They said that they thought it was unprofessional of Santander to have listened to recordings 
of Mrs Ks discussions with it in order to defeat the complaint. In addition, they alleged that 
Santander had doctored and destroyed evidence in order to reject their complaint.
When the complaint was allocated to one of our investigators he initially explained to 
Mr and Mrs K that the financial services regulator required a financial business to treat any 
written or verbal expression of dissatisfaction as a complaint. As such, when Mrs K had 
expressed concerns in November 2020, Santander had rightly registered it as a complaint. 
Once Santander had done so, it was required to investigate the complaint and issue a final 
response letter, which needed to give referral rights to this service. In addition, he explained 
the scope of our remit, which doesnt include complaint handling.
The investigator then went on to consider the core of the complaint  the mistake contained 
on the Santander website and whether Mr and Mrs K had relied on it to their detriment. He 
wasnt persuaded that Mr and Mrs K had suffered a loss because of the incorrect information 
on the website. He concluded this as when they discussed their needs and requirements of the new product to be attached to their mortgage, they had made it clear that they wanted a 
fixed rate product as they wanted set monthly payments. Theyd also confirmed that they 
werent likely to be able to make overpayments in excess of 10%. While Mr and Mrs K 
appeared to have changed their plans after speaking to Santander in the summer of 2020 
and had decided to sell a second property to reduce their borrowing, that didnt happen until 
sometime later. As such, he didnt think that any incorrect information about tracker rate 
products would have made any difference to their decision-making process in August 2020, 
so he didnt think theyd suffered a loss.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They were particularly unhappy 
that the investigator has said that complaint handling fell outside our remit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with how the complaint was handled. As our 
investigator explained, our rules also set out the matters that we can look at. These being 
regulated activities, payment services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and 
ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities 
carried on in connection with the above. Complaint handling does not fall within any of these 
descriptions and so I wont be commenting on this issue.
I would next confirm that we are impartial and we dont take either sides instructions on how 
we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else and decide when we have enough information on file to 
decide it. 
I note that Mr and Mrs K have said that they believe Santander has doctored evidence; 
specifically one of the call recordings, in order to be able to reject this complaint. I have 
listened to the call recordings from August, November, and December 2020. There is 
nothing in the flow or the content of the discussions detailed in the calls that would indicate 
that they had been altered or edited. So while Mr and Mrs K believe that to be the case, as 
there is no factual evidence that is the case, I will be relying on the contents of the calls as 
being an accurate record of the conversations that took place.
Mr and Mrs K have told us and Santander that they would have taken the two-year tracker 
rate product in August 2020 had the information about it on their internet banking offers been 
correct about the ability to make unlimited overpayments on that product. Thats because 
they were expecting to receive lump sums from the sale of their additional properties, which 
they would want to pay off the mortgage. 
However, that doesnt match with the information the Mrs K gave to Santander in August 
2020. Santander specifically asked Mrs K on two occasions if there was any possibility of 
additional lumpsums becoming available that she and Mrs K would want to pay off the 
mortgage. She answered on both occasions in the negative. I also note that Mr and Mrs K 
didnt want to pay a booking fee, as they didnt think that the amount they would save on the 
available rates would amount to more than the booking fee. Both tracker rate products that 
provided lower rate margins, involved paying a £999 booking fee. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs K said that they thought a tracker rate would cost them more than a 
fixed rate. They also said that they wanted to know what they would be paying each month 
over the term of any product they took out. That requirement would exclude a tracker 
product, as the interest rate chargeable would vary with the BoE base rate. I recognise Mr and Mrs Ks strength of feeling about this matter and that, with hindsight, they 
genuinely believe they would have taken the two-year tracker product in August 2020. 
However, the contemporaneous information from August 2020 indicates that Mr and Mrs K 
werent at that time expecting to sell their other properties and use any equity that released 
to reduce their mortgage. As such, as they didnt at that time want to pay a product fee, and 
wanted to have set monthly payments, I am not persuaded that they would have taken the 
two-year tracker rate at that time if theyd known they could make unlimited overpayments. 
As such, I dont consider that Mr and Mrs K were disadvantaged by the mistake contained in 
the information on their internet banking page about possible new rates.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman