DRN-2425424
The complaint
Mr C says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
 Mr C took out two guarantor loans from TFS as summarised below. He used funds from 
loan 2 to repay loan 1 and I understand there is an outstanding balance on loan 2.
Loan date value, £term, 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 06/12/2016 2500 60 97.73 5863.80
2 01/04/2019 3500 36 169.41 6098.76
Mr C says he had credit problems when he took out loan 1 and was gambling to repay 
debts. And when he applied for loan 2 he was still borrowing to repay other loans hed taken 
out to fund his ongoing gambling issue. He says if TFS had done proper checks it would 
have seen he had money problems - he was missing repayments and starting to default on 
other accounts. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said TFSs checks were 
not proportionate. Better checks would have shown Mr C was having problems managing his 
money and the loans werent sustainably affordable for Mr C.
TFS disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr C. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr C could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr C, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr C before it approved the loans. It asked for details
of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It checked his
declared income against a recent payslip. It checked his credit file to understand his credit
history. It also asked about the purpose of the loans which on both occasions was mainly to 
repay existing debt. From these checks combined TFS concluded on both occasions that 
Mr C had sufficient monthly disposable income for the loans to be affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate for either loan. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
Mr C was applying to borrow a significant amount of money from TFS. He was entering into 
a long-term commitment and would need to make monthly repayments for five years. In 
response to the investigators view TFS said Mr Cs credit search did not show multiple 
borrowing. I disagree. It showed Mr C had debt of over £10,000 across 30 accounts; that he 
had defaulted on a credit card in the previous six months; had an arrangement to pay in 
place on a loan; and more than ten active payday loans. TFS also knew Mr Cs income 
varied as a significant proportion came from commission so there was a risk it could reduce 
going forward. 
In this context, and given the term of the loan, I would expect that TFS would want to gather, 
and independently check, more detailed information about Mr Cs financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. So I think it would have been proportionate for TFS to 
independently check the actual state of Mr Cs finances before agreeing the loan.However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Cs complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown TFS and consider if it ought to
have realised that Mr C most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Cs bank statements in the three months prior to his loan application. Im 
not saying TFS had to do this but its one way TFS could have gathered the information I 
think it needed on Mr Cs financial situation. And its a way for me to see now what it would 
most likely have found. 
Our investigator explained the statements show the loan was not affordable for Mr C on a 
pounds and pence basis, even after taking into account the debt he was consolidating. TFS 
has challenged the assumption she made about his income and explained that it used an 
average based on the year-to-date information on the payslip, but this does not change my 
conclusion. Irrespective of the monthly income calculation, had TFS carried better checks it 
would have realised Mr C was having problems managing his money and there was a high 
risk he would not be able to sustainably repay the loan. I say this as the statements show 
returned direct debits, payments to debt collections agencies, a heavy reliance on payday 
lending and frequent gambling transactions. 
Mr C said the loan was to clear some of his debts but at most he could have repaid 25% the 
outstanding debt listed on the credit search TFS completed. Based on all the available 
evidence I dont think this should have given TFS the assurance it needed that approving the 
loan wouldnt lead to Mr C suffering adverse financial consequences. It follows I think TFS 
was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr C.
Loan 2
Mr C applied for a higher value loan when loan 1 was still outstanding. It was to be repaid 
over a long period of time  three years. So again I would have expected TFS would want to 
gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. TFS argues the reduction in Mr Cs 
indebtedness level on the credit check it completed shows his finances had improved. But I 
think its most likely better checks would have shown this not to be the case. 
His bank statements from the months prior to this application indicate his financial stability 
had worsened. He spent in excess of his income on gambling in the month prior to this 
application, had a number of returned direct debit payments and was still using high-cost 
short-term credit to try to meet all his commitments. So had TFS carried out proportionate 
checks I think it would have realised Mr C was unlikely to be able to repay the loan without 
suffering adverse financial consequences. It follows I think TFS was wrong to give loan 2 to 
Mr C.
In response to the investigators view TFS said Mr C also had a responsibility to be honest 
and asked why Mr C didnt share the information he has now provided to this service at the 
time of his applications. But any inaccuracies or omissions in his declarations do not alter 
TFSs obligations to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to lend. 
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I
havent found any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr C to have repaid/repay the capital amount that he borrowed as he had 
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt havebeen given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of being given loans 1 
and 2. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr C having effectively made payments above the original capital 
borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date of settlement*.
If this results in an outstanding capital balance TFS must try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr C, remembering its obligation to treat him positively and 
sympathetically if he is having financial difficulties.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr C a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. TFS Loans Limited must now put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman