DRN-2758909
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) increased the 
premium for her Homeserve Cover 3 Policy without notifying her and that the premium 
increase was excessive.
In this decision Ill refer throughout to Mrs P as she is the policyholder although Mr P has 
been acting on her behalf.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties and have been clearly set out by our 
investigator in his view of Mrs Ps complaint. I therefore wont repeat them here at length. 
Briefly stated Mrs P complained to Homeserve when she noticed in October 2020 that in 
September and October Homeserve had taken a premium of £19.05 from her bank account. 
Prior to that her premiums had been £4.21 per month. She says she never received renewal 
documents from Homeserve advising her what the new premium was going to be. Shes also 
complained that the new premium was excessive.
  
Homeserve has said that the renewal documents were sent to Mrs P by email as its records 
showed that when Mrs P set up the predecessor policy online on 1 September 2014 shed 
requested that documents be sent to her by email, and that all previous notifications had 
been sent to her by email. The correct email address had been confirmed.
Homeserve says that it sent an email to Mrs P on 13 July 2020 advising her of the new 
annual premium of £228.60. The large increase in the premium was due to a substantial 
discount having been given the previous two years. It says that it can tell if an email hasnt 
been opened in which case the documents are sent by post.
Homeserves records show that when the policy was changed in 2018, the new policy 
documents were emailed to Mrs P and that email was opened. The renewal documents for 
2019 were emailed in July 2019, but this email wasnt opened so a hard copy of the 
documents was sent by post. Homeserve says that these documents must have been 
received as it received a call on 29 July 2019 about the increased renewal price following 
which a discount of £103.68 was applied.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied that Homeserve rejected her complaint, so she brought it to this 
service. She says she wants to be reimbursed the two premium instalments she paid for the 
policy year 2020 before she cancelled the policy. These total £38.10. Shes also asked for 
compensation for her time in raising this complaint.
Our investigator initially stated that in his view he couldnt say that Homeserve had failed to 
issue renewal documentation to Mrs P. His view was that Homeserve had issued the 
documentation correctly by email and also by post, and that Homeserve wasnt accountable 
for any deletion of an email or if any post was lost, delayed or not opened, or not read. 
Following a response from Mrs P, he responded with further clarification on the structure of 
the pricing for the policy, and also made reference to the fact that Homeserve had noted a 
claim having been made under the policy in 2019, and he suggested that Mrs P take this up 
with Homeserve.
As Mrs P wasnt satisfied with our investigators view, shes asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision 
from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ill consider firstly the complaint that the premium charged in 2020 was excessive.
We wont usually make any judgments about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk, the 
risk assessments it makes or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. Those are 
business decisions for the insurer. But there are some aspects of price that we will look into 
further, depending on whats relevant in a particular complaint.
We can consider whether a customer has been treated fairly. It wouldnt be fair for an insurer 
to price a policy on the basis that a claim had previously been made if that wasnt the case.
I therefore asked Homeserve what the premium for 2020 wouldve been if Mrs P hadnt 
made a claim in 2019. Homeserve responded to say that the 2020 renewal premium 
wouldve been £204.60 instead of £228.60 if no claim had been made. It had taken into 
account the cost of a claim made in 2019. Mrs P has said that this claim had been rejected 
therefore no claim was made. In response to this, Homeserve said
The claim the customer raised was deemed to be a claim as the engineer attended, 
diagnosed the fault and offered a solution which was declined by the customer. 
Therefore, this would still be classed as a claim. Whilst no repair was completed as 
this wasn't covered by the policy (the repair or replacement of cylinders is excluded), 
the engineer did offer to drain down and isolate the cylinder which would have 
resolved the leak reported by the customer.
As costs were incurred by Homeserve, I consider it to be reasonable to treat this as a claim, 
in which case I dont consider the premium for 2020 was unfair.
We can also consider whether the information provided by an insurer was misleading, so Ive 
considered the information that Homeserve provided.
Ive listened to the telephone conversation that Mr P had with Homeserve in 2018 in which 
he agreed to the setting up of a new policy with an initial premium of £48 a year or £4 a 
month. He was told this was an introductory rate that would increase in year two to £154.20 
a year or £12.95 a month. He was told of the cancellation rights. No mention was made in 
this call of increases in subsequent years.
In July 2019, Mrs P contacted Homeserve following receipt of the renewal document which 
informed them that the premium was increasing to £12.95 a month. I havent heard that 
telephone conversation, but the outcome was a reduction of £103.68 in the annual premium 
and a new monthly premium of £4.21. I consider it reasonable to assume that in that 
conversation Mrs P was advised that this was still an introductory rate which would increase 
in future years to a commercial rate, which is what Mr P had been told in 2018.Having come to the view that Homeserve made clear that the cost of the policy would 
increase after the introductory period, Im satisfied that Homeserve hasnt acted 
unreasonably in increasing the premium for 2020.
I then need to consider if Homeserve did anything wrong when communicating with Mrs P. 
Ive seen from Homeserves records going back to 2014 that email was recorded as the 
selected means of communication. Homeserve says that this instruction had not been 
changed and that correspondence had therefore been sent by email to an email address that 
Mrs P had confirmed was correct. Renewal documents for 2020 had been sent by email on 
13 July 2020. If an email wasnt opened, documents were sent by post. Homeserve will 
therefore have done all it could to correspond with Mrs P. It cant be held responsible for 
emails not being delivered to the correct email address or how they were dealt with on arrival 
e.g. they may have been treated as spam, or deleted. Nor can it be responsible for a failure 
in delivery to a correct postal address.
My conclusion is that Homeserve has not acted unfairly or unreasonably or done anything 
wrong. Im therefore not going to require it to make any reimbursement of premium to Mrs P 
nor am I going to require it to pay any compensation to Mrs P for her time in bringing this 
complaint as it hasnt been upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman