DRN-4412001
The complaint
Miss L complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as Live Lend (LiveLend) is 
holding her liable for a loan which was taken out in her name by scammers.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in April 2022 a £10,000 loan was taken out in Miss Ls name with 
LiveLend. Miss L subsequently told LiveLend that scammers, not her, had taken out the 
loan. Ultimately Miss L didnt then reach agreement with LiveLend, so she referred her 
complaint about LiveLend to us. Our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter 
informally, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Miss L and LiveLend my provisional decision earlier this month explaining what I was 
minded to decide. Now that both parties have had the opportunity to respond, Im ready to 
explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part for materially the same reasons 
as explained in my provisional decision. Ive explained why again below, with some further 
comment where I have deemed it appropriate to address Miss Ls response to my 
provisional decision. 
Miss L says that at the time she knew the loan was being applied for in her name, but that 
she didnt consent to it. So, in this case my first consideration is: did Miss L enter into this 
loan agreement, or was it done without her consent as she alleges?
Having considered this carefully, I think its most likely the loan was taken out in Miss Ls 
name without her consent, and Miss L did not therefore enter into the loan agreement. I say 
this because:
Theres no doubt Miss L knew the loan was taken out in her name. However, shes 
described how she was at the time, unbeknownst to her, embroiled in an investment 
scam; and that the scammers had previously encouraged her to take out loans to 
invest but shed refused. She says she was unwell on the particular day this loan 
was taken out; but the scammer was on the phone to her and used some remote 
access software to show her ClearScore credit score; he said it would be better if she 
borrowed and repaid credit. Miss L says then, despite her telling him (as before) that 
she didnt want any loans, he nonetheless proceeded to start applying in her name 
anyway (using the remote access software); she says she told the scammer several 
times to stop but he didnt stop but just laughed at her and said shed have the loan 
repaid by Christmas.
Ive found Miss Ls submissions on this to be plausible and persuasive. Im satisfied 
this means I cant fairly say Miss L consented to the loan.
Since Im satisfied Miss L most likely didnt consent to this loan, I dont think it would be fair 
for LiveLend to hold her to the terms of the loan agreement she never agreed to. So, 
LiveLend shouldnt hold Miss L liable for interest and charges, neither should there be a 
record of the loan on Miss Ls credit file  so if there currently is, this should be removed. 
At the same time, I dont think LiveLend was to know at the time that the application hadnt 
come from Miss L or that there was anything untoward about it. In her response to my 
provisional decision Miss L has said no signed document for the loan has been presented, 
and she says if there is one it must have been produced without her awareness. I take on 
board what shes said about this and her not consenting to the loan. But Im not disputing 
here that she didnt enter into the loan (for the reasons Ive explained above). At the same 
time, Im satisfied the scammers had the means to  and indeed did in this case  trick 
LiveLend into thinking the application was legitimately from Miss L. But I dont think LiveLend 
was to know at the time that the application hadnt come from Miss L or that there was 
anything untoward about it. And Im not persuaded I can fairly say Miss L took reasonable 
steps to mitigate matters at the point she saw the scammer applying for the loan in her 
name. She reasonably ought to have tried shutting off the remote access software and/or 
her devices. And this would likely have prevented the scammers from either taking out the 
loan in her name, or, at the least, being able to move the loan funds out of Miss Ls account 
into theirs. Miss L didnt do this but allowed the scammers to move the loan funds on from 
her account to an investment apparently in her name. In circumstances like this, I dont 
think I can fairly say that LiveLend should not be able to pursue Miss L for any of the loan 
funds still outstanding, or that it should be required to refund to Miss L any repayments to the 
loan she has already made (if any).
Miss L has questioned how she was accepted for the loan in the first place. And Ive thought 
about this. But our usual approach on unaffordable lending is that interest and charges 
should be removed but the consumer should still pay back the principal amount of the loan 
they had the benefit from. Ive already said above this is essentially what I think should 
happen in this case. So, even if this loan was irresponsibly lent (and Im not saying it was), 
the redress Im directing in this case would already cover what wed normally award for this. 
I havent seen anything in this case that persuades me more than this would be appropriate. 
So, Im satisfied this wouldnt change things.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part, and I direct 
Chetwood Financial Limited trading as Live Lend to:
remove all interest and charges on the loan;
remove reference to the loan from Miss Ls credit file;  
take any repayments already made to the loan to date as having reduced the loan 
balance;
not pursue Miss L for more than the outstanding amount of the principal loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman