DRN-4329354
The complaint
Ms F complains about the way West Bay Insurance Plc has handled a claim under her motor 
insurance policy. 
Any reference to West Bay includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
In February 2023, Ms F reported to West Bay shed been involved in a motor incident 
 though not with another vehicle. 
Shortly after, West Bay wrote to Ms F saying shed accepted liability  which wasnt 
correct. Ms F says this mistake caused her worry and stress and she had to spend 
time rectifying it. 
West Bay corrected its position and said it had issued allegations to the other party 
with Ms Fs version of events. It paid £50 compensation to recognise the upset its 
mistake had caused Ms F. 
In June, Ms F complained about how long her claim was taking and that shed had to 
spend hours chasing for updates from West Bay to progress her claim. 
At the time of its final response in June, liability was still in dispute. West Bay 
explained this could take several months but that it was actively progressing the 
claim with the third-party and its insurer. It did, however, recognise its service had 
fallen short and so, paid a further £200 compensation. 
Ms F remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it as he was satisfied the total compensation - £250 - 
fairly reflected the difficulties Ms F had experienced. 
Ms F disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached, and Ill explain 
why. For the avoidance of doubt, I am only considering events up until West Bays 
final response dated 12 June 2023. 
It's not in dispute West Bays service fell short at times. Its accepted its 
communication could have been better and its apologised for: its lack of reply to Ms 
Fs emails; its failure to take down information correctly; causing avoidable confusion 
regarding witnesses. 
This, coupled with the fact it incorrectly said Ms F had accepted liability at the outset 
of the claim, understandably, caused her avoidable distress  and her strength of 
feeling in respect of all these issues is very clear. 
I dont doubt Ms F spent time chasing West Bay for updates to progress her claim, 
and that having to spend a long time on hold when doing so compounded her 
feelings of frustration with how things had been handled. 
In deciding if £250 is fair, I must balance the above with the fact West Bay did 
provide regular updates, though not as frequently as Ms F seemingly, wanted. 
Furthermore, there is likely to be a degree of inconvenience experienced by a policy 
holder even if everything happens as it should. Thats not to minimise the impact 
West Bays shortcomings have had on Ms F, but rather to highlight that I cant 
reasonably hold it responsible for inconvenience and worry which may reasonably be 
expected in circumstances like this. 
Ms F has said she spent time away from work and used annual leave to deal with the 
matter. This Services approach is that we dont usually make a specific award for 
someones time or calculate it using a set amount. But we will factor in the 
inconvenience someone may have experienced spending time dealing with a matter. 
And so, Ive kept this in mind in Ms Fs case.
Whilst I recognise West Bay caused avoidable distress by incorrectly saying Ms F 
had admitted liability, it corrected its position shortly after, and so, the worry she 
experienced in respect of this was relatively short lived. 
I appreciate Ms Fs strong desire to draw this matter to a close but where liability is 
disputed and there are various parties involved, things will inevitably take longer. So, 
whilst there have been some shortcomings in respect of its communication with          
Ms F, West Bay has been progressing her claim to try and resolve the liability issue 
as Id expect it to. 
So, considering the above, Im satisfied £250 compensation is fair and in line with 
awards this service makes in respect of distress and inconvenience.
Ms F has raised concerns about having to pay her excess. Its standard practice  
regardless of whos at fault  for a policy holder to pay an excess at the start of a 
claim as ultimately, theyve made a claim on their policy. If Ms F has concerns about 
whether the excess should be covered once liability has been settled, she should 
raise a complaint with West Bay about this in the first instance.   
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Nicola BeakhustOmbudsman