DRN-3283629
Complaint
Miss P has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) provided 
her with an unaffordable loan. 
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss P with a loan of £2,000.00 in July 2017. This loan had an 
APR of 99.9% and a 24-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £3,841.92, 
which included interest of £1,841.92, was due to be repaid in 24 instalments of £160.08.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that 118 118 Money unfairly 
provided this loan. 118 118 Money disagreed with our investigator and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Ps complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ps complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss P would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss P wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss P would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
118 118 Money provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Ps ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss P. In practice this
meant that 118 118 Money had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss P undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss P.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were 118 118 Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
118 118 Money says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss P 
prior to providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Miss P declared that 
she was earning around £1,500.00 a month and had expenditure of just over £1,000.00 a 
month. 118 118 Moneys credit check showed that Miss P had six active accounts. 
Ive carefully considered what 118 118 Money has said. But the credit check it carried out 
showed that Miss P had 24 accounts, of which 6 were active and 18 had been settled.       
Miss P had also had 15 credit searches carried out on her (most likely as a result of making 
applications for credit) in the previous 12 months as well as more than one default. This all 
suggested that there was a possibility Miss P may have been struggling and it called into 
question whether Miss P really did have the disposable income 118 118 Money thought she 
did. And this leads me to think that 118 118 Money ought to have taken steps to actually 
verify Miss Ps income and expenditure. As I cant see that 118 118 Money did do this and instead proceeded with, what at first 
glance, appears to have been an overoptimistic declaration of Miss Ps disposable income, I 
dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Miss P with this loan were 
reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 118 118 Money that Miss P
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told 118 118 Money that Miss P would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
118 118 Money was required to establish whether Miss P could make her loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Miss P was 
borrowing from a number of different lenders, including short term ones, in order to repay 
previous creditors and try to make ends meet. She also appears to have been significantly 
overdrawn on her current account too. 
In these circumstances, it is not readily apparent to me how Miss P was in any sort of 
position to have been able to make the payments to this loan without borrowing further or 
experiencing financial difficulty. In my view, her ability to repay this loan was more likely than 
not dependent on her ability to borrow again, whether from 118 118 Money or elsewhere, 
before the end of the term.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have shown 118 118 Money that Miss P would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So Im satisfied that 118 118 Moneys failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Miss P.
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other 
way. So I dont think 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some 
other way.
Did Miss P lose out as a result of 118 118 Money unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss P paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have 
been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 118 118 Money did 
wrong.
So I think that 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Miss P
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for 118 Money to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss P made, to 118 118 Money and any debt purchaser, should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,000.00 originally lent. If Miss P has 
already repaid more than £2,000.00 then 118 118 Money should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss P;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss P to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind 118 118 Money of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all 
adjustments have been made to the account (should it buy it back from any third-party debt 
purchaser), and its the case that Miss P is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman