DRN-3618222
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) declined a 
claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Miss K had pet insurance underwritten by CGI to cover her dog, Minnie.
She made a claim after her vet referred Minnie to be treated for a cruciate rupture 
repair. CGI declined the claim because it said Minnie was medically overweight and 
claims resulting from that werent covered.
Miss K didnt think this was fair and provided information from her vet to challenge 
what CGI had said. They thought a number of factors were relevant to the chances of 
developing cruciate disease and didnt think being overweight was a significant one.
CGI agreed the cause of treatment had many factors but maintained that being 
overweight was a relevant one.
Our investigator thought CGI had declined the claim unfairly. He noted Miss Ks vet 
was the only expert who had provided comments. He thought they had persuasively 
argued why the dog wasnt medically overweight  and why being overweight 
wouldnt increase the risk of this disease. He said CGI should settle the claim.
Miss K agreed. CGI didnt. It said Miss Ks vet wasnt completely independent and 
referred to a number of websites about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss K had a previous claim declined, but this complaint is focused on the 
claim for treating a cruciate rupture. So I havent looked into the previous claim.
The policy provides cover for, amongst other things, the cost of treatment carried out by a 
vet for accidental injury, subject to a number of policy terms. The relevant one here says CGI 
wont cover:
Any claims resulting from your pet being medically overweight  and this results in 
your pet needing treatment as a result of not being the recommended medical weight 
for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a vet
The onus is on CGI to show it would be fair to rely on this term in order to decline the claim. 
The term requires CGI to show essentially two things:
1. Minnie was medically overweight
2. This caused her to need the treatment claimed for
The phrase medically overweight isnt defined in the policy. Its not clear exactly what CGI 
means by this phrase. Based on the full wording of the term above, it seems to be where an 
animal is over the weight recommended by the vet.
Miss Ks vet said they were unaware of any definition for the phrase but didnt agree it 
described Minnie.
CGI has referred to vets notes about Minnies weight. The vet recorded it at 28kg and said 
20-24kg would be ideal, recommending she lose weight as soon as possible. Her weight 
fluctuated between 26 and 29kg over the next year until it was recorded as 31kg when she 
was described as a bit overweight. Her weight reduced to around 27kg before the time of 
the claim.
Miss K says the recommended weight was based on a different breed, the correct range is 
26-28kg, and this was verbally confirmed at the vets  but not added to the medical history 
notes. The vet later said the breed came in a range of sizes with very different physical 
characteristics and ideal body weight is a subjective assessment which can be difficult with 
the range of sizes and builds. They confirmed the recommendation was made by a locum 
based on a breed chart. I understand that means the recommendation wasnt specific to 
Minnie and her particular physical characteristics.
CGI hasnt given its own view on what an ideal or recommended weight ought to have been 
for Minnie. The only recommendation made has been called into question and Im not 
satisfied based on what Ive seen that it would be fair to rely on it. The vets notes generally 
indicate Minnie was overweight at times  but its not clear that amounts to being medically 
overweight. The vet didnt think it would be reasonable to describe Minnie this way.
All things considered, Im not satisfied CGI has shown Minnie was medically overweight. 
Even if CGI had shown that, I dont think it had also shown this caused Minnie to need the 
treatment claim for. Ill explain why.
Miss Ks vet didnt think weight alone was a risk factor for cruciate problems. They said 
studies had shown no evidence that heavier dogs have a higher risk of cruciate disease than 
those with average weight  and highlighted a particular study. They thought the dogs age, 
breed and neutered female status were more reliable risk factors. The vet also said the 
cause of the cruciate rupture was unknown but likely the result of degeneration.
CGI said that weight may be a factor in cruciate problems, although it accepts the cause of 
an injury is likely to be the result of many factors. In response to our investigators findings, 
its pointed to a number of websites that comment on overweight dogs. This evidence has 
come very late. I would expect this kind of information to be raised directly with the 
consumer when their complaint is investigated. Nonetheless, Ive thought about what it says.
Much of the focus is on obese dogs. I dont think its been established that Minnie is obese, 
so Im not persuaded all the information is relevant. Beyond that, I think its broadly in line 
with existing comments. It says weight may be a factor, but also that multiple factors, 
including the breed, can contribute to problems.
It may be the case that weight can be a factor in causing cruciate disease. But what matters 
here is whether CGI can show Minnie was medically overweight and that caused cruciate disease in her. Im not persuaded CGI has shown that. Websites wont be able to show what 
caused Minnies injury and can only give general commentary.
Im satisfied Miss Ks vet is acting independently and professionally  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest otherwise. Theyre the only vet Ive seen any evidence from and Im mindful that the 
comments of vets closely involved in an animals treatment are more relevant and 
persuasive than general comments from others.
Overall, it remains unclear whether Minnie was medically overweight. But even if she was, 
Im not satisfied the evidence shows this is what caused her to need treatment. Because of 
that, I dont think CGI treated Miss K fairly when it declined her claim. To put things right, it 
should now settle her claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand the treatment has been carried out. As CGI will now need to pay Miss K money 
to settle the claim, in line with our usual approach, it should add interest to the money at 8% 
simple per year from the date Miss K paid for the treatment until the date CGI pays the 
money.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add interest at 8% simple per year to the claim settlement, from the date Miss K paid 
for the treatment until the date CGI pays the money.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman