DRN-3969690
The complaint
Miss F has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim she 
made on her landlord building insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F let out her property to a tenant who died in February 2021 while occupying the 
property. This wasnt discovered for a prolonged period of time which led to the property 
suffering from a bug infestation. In the process of fumigating the property, walls were 
damaged and some of the flooring and kitchen units were removed from the property. In 
addition, the front door to the property was damaged by the emergency services gaining 
entry.  
Miss F notified UKI of her claim for accidental damage to the property, caused by these 
events, on 26 March 2021. Miss F requested the works be carried out to the property, so 
UKIs contractors started the repairs in July 2021, which were completed by the end of 
November 2021.
Miss F wasnt happy with the standard of the repairs and raised her concerns with UKI in 
mid-December 2021. From that time, until 4 May 2022 various visits were made to the 
property by UKIs agents to check on the progress of repairs. This led to the contractor and 
UKIs loss adjuster compiling a cash settlement offer for Miss F on 4 May 2022. 
In May 2022, UKI sent Miss F their first final response letter addressing her concerns. The 
complaint handler concluded that some of the service Miss F had received from their staff 
and contractor was below standard, particularly in relation to poor communication and the 
contractors causing unnecessary delays, and failing to leave the property in a satisfactory 
condition following the completion of the repairs. Miss F was paid £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused. 
Miss F remained unhappy with the progression of the claim and made a further complaint 
which UKI responded to in its final response letter dated 16 September 2022. The complaint 
handler explained that a cash settlement had been offered to Miss F to rectify the snagging 
issues from the original repair, and for the repairs that were outstanding, which totalled 
£2,058.01. The costs relating to the saniflow system were also added to the cash settlement 
amount.  A payment of £3,600 was also offered for the loss of rent aspect of the claim. 
However, the complaint handler reiterated that anything related to maintenance issues and 
bringing the property up to date was Miss Fs responsibility as the property owner and wasnt 
covered by the policy. She explained that to try and progress matters, the loss adjuster 
instructed and paid for an independent surveyor to inspect the property, who agreed with the 
loss adjusters findings. The final response letter finished by saying that if Miss F wished to 
dispute the amounts offered for the cash settlement then she would need to provide UKI with 
an independent report and/or estimates and they would be happy to review them.
As Miss F didnt agree with UKIs decision on her claim and complaint, she brought her 
complaint to this service in October 2022. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened and clarified that the following payments had been made to the contractor in 
relation to the claim:
£9,210.34 on 1 April 2022 for strip out works;
£11,470.82 on 1 April 2022 for interim repair works; and
£21,490.70 on 20 September 2022 for final repair works.
He also clarified the following payments were made by cheque to Miss F:
£3,588.01 on 27 September 2022 for the outstanding snagging and repair works; 
£3,600 paid on 27 September 2022 for the loss of rent claim; and
£364.04 paid on 16 January 2023. 
He also explained in detail what the payments to Miss F covered. So, I wont repeat that 
detail here.
A view partially upholding the complaint was issued by our investigator. In summary he said 
that it was fair for UKI to make Miss F a cash settlement, in the circumstances where a 
number of uninsured repairs needed to be carried out to the property before the insured 
works could be completed. However, he thought that UKI should pay Miss F a further £250 
for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused as a result of the way it had handled 
her claim. 
Miss F didnt accept our investigators view. She insists that UKI should complete the repair 
works to her property. UKI also didnt accept our investigators view as they didnt believe an 
additional payment should be made to Miss F for the distress and inconvenience shed 
suffered. They remain of the view that the delays were caused by Miss Fs refusal to take 
responsibility for the uninsured works that need to be completed at the property. 
As neither party accepted our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, and for essentially the 
same reasons. I will explain why.
In making my decision on this complaint, Ive first considered the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Section 1 of the policy terms and conditions, on page 14, says that in the event of damage to 
the property caused by any of the insured perils listed (which includes: Any Accidental 
Cause) UKI will pay either pay the value of the property, the amount of the damage or at 
their own option, reinstate or replace the property.
In Miss Fs case, UKI initially agreed to reinstate the damaged property, but after works 
commenced it became apparent that a significant amount of damage to the property was 
caused by wear and tear and gradual deterioration.The definition of Any Accidental Cause excludes damage to the property caused by or 
consisting of gradual deterioration and wear and tear.
Miss F doesnt agree that any of the damage was caused by gradual deterioration or wear 
and tear. UKI invited Miss F to provide an independent report to support her position, but she 
declined to do so. To move the claim forward, the loss adjuster commissioned an 
independent report, to be carried out by a surveyor that Miss F agreed to. The surveyor, who 
Ill refer to as T, provided his report on the property in September 2022. I wont go into all of 
the findings of that report but will highlight some of the key issues observed in relation to the 
condition of various aspects of the property.
In the overview, detailed in paragraph 3.1.1 of the report, T said that while the property had 
undergone some internal refurbishment it was apparent theres a long-standing issue with 
damp in the property in the ground floor party wall and adjoining timber and walls. They 
commented further that the damp proof course is either missing or failed such that moisture 
had passed up through the party wall with the adjoining property, and into the timber floor 
joists, floorboards and skirting boards. They said that the installation of double glazing in 
place of older windows can reduce natural ventilation and lead to an increased risk of damp, 
condensation and mould, especially when combined with a lack of central heating to the 
property. There were residual signs of condensation and mould in integrated wardrobes and 
around the inside of the windows of the property. 
In paragraph 3.5.2, the report noted that the slate roof had missing and broken tiles and 
damp staining to roof timbers where moisture had penetrated the timbers. 
In paragraph 3.6.2, regarding the walls it was observed that the damp proof course is below 
150mm on the front elevation allowing rainfall to penetrate brickwork above the damp proof 
course. 
In paragraph 3.9.2, it was noted that the ground floor suspended timber floors were in a 
hazardous condition, timber floorboards had been removed and the timber floor joists 
remaining had might levels of moisture content. Also, cuboidal cracking was present in the 
ground floor skirting board which they said can indicate the presence, or past presence of 
dry rot. And the moisture readings taken within skirting boards in the areas of concern were 
such that they indicated vulnerability to a dry rot outbreak. 
When providing their comments on the claim to this service, UKI explained that the property 
needs a full rewire, installation of a central heating system and full damp proof course to 
improve the moisture condition within the property, all of which are intrusive works and would 
render the current decoration within the property damaged and requiring redecoration works, 
all of which are unrelated to the claim. 
Where the evidence is inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on what I think, more likely than not, was the case. Having taken account of the expert 
evidence and the testimony from Miss F and UKI, I conclude that there were significant 
uninsured works that needed to be carried out at the property, for damage that wasnt 
covered by the policy. And I think UKIs submissions about any repair works being 
undermined by the underlying issues are reasonable. As Miss F may be aware, insurance 
contracts are not maintenance agreements. They provide cover against unexpected events, 
such as occurred at Miss Fs property when the deceased tenant was found some time after 
their death. By contrast, where there is an issue of a deteriorating property that would 
usually be the responsibility of the property owner, in this case, Miss F, not her insurer. So, 
having considered the available evidence, I think UKIs decision to cash settle the claim was 
in line with the policy terms and fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Ive also considered the sums paid by UKI to settle Miss Fs claim regarding the damage to 
her property, and in the absence of any evidence from Miss F to show otherwise, on the 
basis of the evidence currently available, I think UKI has fairly settled that claim. 
Miss F has expressed concern about the way UKI has dealt with her loss of rent claim. As 
our investigator explained, £3,600 of the cheque for £7,552.07, sent to Miss F, was for loss 
of rent. However, UKIs handling of this element of Miss Fs claim wasnt included in her 
original complaint. So, if Miss F remains unhappy with how the loss of rent claim has been 
calculated, she will first need to raise that with UKI. If she doesnt accept their resolution to 
her complaint then she may seek to bring a separate complaint about that to this service. 
Ive next considered whether UKI ought to pay Miss F any additional compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused by the way theyve handled her claim. 
Our investigator was of the view that an additional £250 compensation ought to be paid to 
Miss F. He said that given her circumstances and vulnerability, the avoidable delays, 
incomplete works and poor communication would have exacerbated her distress and 
suffering further, so an additional £250 compensation was required to compensate her for 
that. 
UKI didnt agree. They said that the case had been delayed by Miss Fs insistence that UKI 
put right the pre-existing issues with the property. 
Having considered everything afresh, I agree with our investigator. I accept that some of the 
delays were caused by Miss F. However, taking account of the stress UKIs handling of the 
claim has caused her, while shes had difficult personal circumstances to deal with, (which 
theyve been aware of) I dont think the £250 compensation already paid is sufficient to make 
up for the poor communication, the poor standard of repairs carried out by UKIs contractor 
and the subsequent delays in settling the claim. I note that it was only after our investigator 
became involved that a clear summary of the amounts UKI has paid to settle the claim, 
appears to have been provided to Miss F. I also note that it was only in January 2023 that 
the final payment was made to her, which may not have been identified by UKI in the 
absence of questions being raised by our service. The initial £250 compensation was paid in 
May 2022, and it was a further eight months before the claim was finally settled. So, taking 
all of these factors into account, Im upholding this complaint in part, and am requiring UKI to 
pay Miss F a further £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint in part and require UK Insurance Limited to 
pay Miss F a further £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused by the way theyve handled her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require UK Insurance Limited to 
pay the award detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman