DRN-2869024
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) declined a claim in respect 
of their boiler and then cancelled their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr Ss policy provided cover for repairs and replacement of their boiler but not 
annual servicing. It broke down in December 2019. BG said it couldnt be repaired as parts 
were no longer available and it should be replaced. Mrs and Mr S say BG said it would fit the 
part for them if they could locate it. They say the part was available for £700, but BG then 
said it shouldnt have covered the boiler at all. It cancelled the policy and refunded their 
premium. Mrs and Mr S decided to replace their boiler rather than repair it. 
Mrs and Mr S complained to BG and say it offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience, 
which they declined. BG said it would need some time to investigate and it wouldnt be able 
to respond within eight weeks. BG says it called Mrs and Mr S about their complaint, but say 
that Mrs S refused to discuss it, so it emailed to say it would close the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr S referred their complaint to our service saying BG should pay the cost of 
replacing the boiler, compensation for the inconvenience and for being rude on the 
telephone. 
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator said the policy terms and conditions (T&Cs) did provide for it to be 
cancelled if parts became unavailable. He said the policy didnt cover replacement if the 
boiler was more than seven years old and it appeared to have been installed in 1999. So, 
BG had been right to decline the claim and had acted fairly in cancelling the policy and 
refunding the premiums. He said BG had apologised for the inconvenience even though it 
hadnt accepted the complaint and records of telephone conversations were no longer 
available.
Mrs and Mr S said the boiler was installed in 2012/13 and was less than seven years old. BG 
said the system was installed in 1999 and the boiler itself in 2008. It said it had carried out 
repairs in 2014 and twice in 2015, when it advised the boiler should be replaced. BG said the 
boiler didnt appear to have been serviced or maintained since then. Our investigator said his 
view hadnt changed and he didnt uphold the complaint.
As Mrs and Mr S dont agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 19 April 2021, I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint, but Im not thinking of telling BG to pay for the replacement of the 
boiler.
Ive carefully considered whether it was fair that BG cancelled the policy or, whether it should 
have repaired or replaced the boiler instead. Based on the evidence so far, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to tell BG it should pay for the replacement of the boiler. However, at 
this stage I dont think the policy has been cancelled fairly because I think Mrs and Mr S are 
due a further refund of premiums. 
Cancellation
BG says it didnt provide cover for this boiler at all, so it was right to cancel the policy. BGs 
notes record: 
Gas Parts advised we do not cover the boiler AT ALL so we should cancel the cover 
and refund the customer all premiums paid.
The T&Cs of the policy refer to an approved list and say that if a boiler isnt on it the policy 
can be cancelled and premiums refunded. There was some confusion about whether a first 
service should have been carried out on the boiler. Had it been, BG say it would have told 
Mrs and Mr S it didnt cover the boiler and cancelled the policy.
But the type of policy held by Mrs and Mr S didnt provide a service. And it wasnt a new 
policy, having been in place since 2012. BG had made repairs previously and the renewal 
documents issued in November 2018 note the make and model of the boiler. 
The renewal schedule also said:
Important information  servicing your boiler
Our records show that your boiler is .
At the moment this isnt on the list of boilers we currently service 
Please give us a call to discuss whether we can service your boiler and any 
other options we can offer you
I asked BG why it didnt cover the boiler for servicing and from when. Because with BGs 
Gas Parts department saying the boiler wasnt covered AT ALL, there might be an issue 
with parts availability as well as servicing. If parts arent available, BG usually refers to an 
appliance as being on a reduced service listing (RSL). 
Once a boiler is on the RSL it is less likely that it can be repaired, so I think this is important 
information for the policyholder to be aware of when they consider whether the policy is 
appropriate for their needs. 
The T&Cs of the policy seem to reflect this as they say if parts arent available:
And, we havent told you before that we may not be able to find them 
well refund any money you have paid for these products since your last 
claim, up to a maximum of three years.
The 2019 renewal schedule didnt make any mention of problems obtaining parts. If BG 
hadnt told Mrs and Mr S about this before, they might be due a further refund of premiums, 
assuming it was fair to cancel the policy. BG replied that the boiler was not on its approved list for either servicing or repair, and it 
shouldnt have offered the policy, which is why it cancelled it. It said it was unable to 
establish when the boiler was removed from the service and repair list. But as it hadnt 
issued any warning until the 2019 renewal, it would have repaired the boiler before this, 
subject to parts being available.
However, Mrs and Mr S understood that they had cover in place. And I can understand their 
frustration that BG only said it wouldnt cover the boiler once theyd tried to claim after paying 
premiums for several years. 
So, Ive considered whether under the terms of the policy the boiler should have been 
repaired or replaced if it had been on BGs approved list. I dont think it would have been, Ill 
explain why.
Repair and Replacement
The policy provides for repairs or if these cant be made, replacement of the boiler provided 
it is less than seven years old. If parts cant be obtained and the boiler is more than seven 
years old the T&Cs say BG can cancel the policy and refund the premiums.
There is disagreement about both aspects here. 
Parts Availability
BG says the necessary parts werent available.  Mrs and Mr S say they were at a cost of 
£700 and BGs system notes do refer to a conversation about parts. BG also says that other 
work, like flushing the system, was needed which wasnt covered by the policy in any case. 
Mrs and Mr S decided to replace rather than repair the boiler which cost around £1,900. I 
can see that BG not being available to install parts for them would have influenced their 
decision over replacing the boiler. 
Parts availability does tend to reduce the older a boiler is. The manufacturer of this boiler 
withdrew from the UK market some years ago, apparently further reducing parts availability. 
BG says that it only sources new parts from approved suppliers. As it guarantees its work 
this doesnt seem unreasonable. And as there isnt any other evidence that the necessary 
parts were available, I cant say that BG has acted unreasonably in saying parts werent 
available.
And, the policy T&Cs do allow BG to cancel the policy and refund the premium if parts arent 
available.
The Age of the Boiler
BG says the boiler was installed in 2008, Mrs and Mr S that it was 2012, so it may have 
been less than seven years old in December 2019, when it broke down. The T&Cs say that 
if the boilers age is disputed, either an original receipt or dated guarantee can be provided 
as proof of when it was first installed. I dont think this is unreasonable and Mrs and Mr S 
havent provided any further evidence so far to show it was less than seven years old. 
I note that BG undertook significant repairs in January 2014 and in 2015, when it 
recommended replacement. I think such repairs and recommendations would be unusual if 
the boiler was only two or three years old at that point. So, at present, I think it is more likely 
than not that the boiler was more than seven years old in December 2019. If it was, the policy didnt provide for the boiler to be replaced even if it had been on the 
approved list. And, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell BG to meet the cost of replacing it 
now. 
The refund of premiums
Im surprised that BG doesnt know when it stopped providing cover for the boiler. The 2019 
renewal refers only to a limitation on servicing  which wasnt provided for in any case, not 
repairs or parts. 
BG says it hadnt advised Mrs and Mr S about limitations on their cover previously and would 
have carried out repairs if parts were available 2019. And it hasnt said why the boiler 
couldnt be serviced. If it was because routine service parts were no longer available in 
November 2018 (when the 2019 renewal was issued), I think its likely that other parts would 
have become unavailable before this date. This would reduce the chance of successful 
repairs being made. So, its possible that Mrs and Mr S were paying for a policy offering 
limited or even no cover for some years without being made aware of it. 
So, at this stage I think its reasonable that a further refund of premiums is due to Mrs and 
Mr S. The policy provides for up to three years premiums to be refunded and so far, only the 
premiums paid in 2019 have been. But it isnt clear what the policy covered in the years 
between 2015, when the last claim was made and it being renewed, when BG say it 
shouldnt have been, in January 2019. 
So, I think its fair that premiums be refunded for the three years before the policy renewed in 
January 2019, the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. Interest at 8% simple per year should be 
added to these premiums. 
I think Mrs and Mr S have suffered trouble and upset due to what has happened. BG 
originally offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience which Mrs and Mr S rejected. 
Taking everything into account I think this should be increased to £75.
Response to provisional decision
Mrs and Mr S said they accepted my provisional decision.
BG said it was happy with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
I dont think the terms of the policy provided for the boiler to be replaced in the 
circumstances here as it was most likely more than seven years old when it broke down and 
the availability of the parts needed to make a repair was limited. 
But I also think its clear that problems obtaining spare parts reduced the cover provided by 
the policy. Mrs and Mr S hadnt been made aware of this. I dont think this was reasonable 
because it meant they didnt have enough information to decide whether the policy offered 
what they wanted. Had they been made aware, they may have decided against renewing the 
policy. And it isnt clear when parts availability became a problem, meaning the policy may 
have offered only limited cover for several years. I think to fairly resolve this complaint BG should refund the premiums Mrs and Mr S paid for 
the 2016, 2017 and 2018 policy years with interest at 8% per year simple added. I think Mrs 
and Mr S have suffered some trouble and upset as a result of what has happened, and BG 
should also pay them £75 in compensation 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited.
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to resolve Mrs and Mr Ss complaint by refunding the 
premiums paid in the three policy years before January 2019. Interest at 8% per year simple 
should be added to the premiums. British Gas Insurance Limited should also pay £75 
compensation for Mrs and Mr Ss trouble and upset. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs and Mr S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It should also give 
a certificate showing this if Mrs and Mr S ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman