DRN-2266266
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
Its been agreed that AXA should accept responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive
referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs S took out a store card in 1997 in a store. At the same time she took out PPI. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. As AXA didnt respond 
to the adjudicators view, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs S complaint because I dont think that AXA gave her clear 
enough information about the cost of the policy.
Because of the time that has passed, AXA doesnt have a copy of the actual policy terms
that applied to Mrs S card. So Ive had to base my decision on the policy terms of the
same insurers that were in use for store cards either side of the time of the sale, which I
think are likely to have been similar.
I dont think that AXA advised Mrs S to take out the PPI. But it still had to give her clear, fair 
and not mis-leading information about it, so that she could make an informed decision 
whether she wanted it or not. Ive seen a copy of Mrs S signed store card application form. 
There is a section in it dealing with PPI. It says, amongst other things, that the insurance will 
protect her store card repayments in the case of her accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. I can see that this section has been ticked to accept the offer of the cover. 
But there is nothing Ive seen on the form that clearly gives information about the cost of the 
policy. In particular, that interest would have been charged on the premiums. And that she 
would still have had to continue paying the premiums if she made a claim. And I havent 
seen anything else to indicate that such information was clearly highlighted to Mrs S before 
she signed the application form. So I find that I cant reasonably conclude that AXA 
adequately drew the costs of the policy to Mrs S attention.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs S because she says she was entitled to sick pay for 
more than six months from her employer and that she had savings worth more than six 
months of her salary. This means she could have met her store card repayments for a while 
without the policy. I dont think Mrs S would have bought the policy if shed known the true 
cost of it. So, I think Mrs S has lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
Putting things right
AXA needs to put Mrs S into the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out
the PPI. This means:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card
account if the policies hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, 
as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges 
that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policies, AXA can take off what she
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund.
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI 
Mrs S paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple
interest on the extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point
when Mrs S would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate
should be 8% a year from then on. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold Mrs S complaint. And I order
AXA France IARD to pay Mrs S compensation in accordance with the calculation that Ive
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman