DRN-1808137
The complaint
Dr L has complained to Gocompare.com Ltds (Gocompare) that they were required to 
select between binary gender options when completing the form to request insurance quotes 
through its comparison website, rather than being offered a non-binary option which 
matched their personal gender identity or being allowed to proceed without completing this 
field.
What happened
Dr L tried to use the Gocompares comparison website to obtain a quote for buildings and 
contents insurance for their home.  Dr L said that a binary gender needed to be input into the 
website.  Dr L said this was not allowed under General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
Dr L has said that data held should be accurate, and that data should not be collected or 
retained unless it is required. Dr L said by only giving binary options for gender, Gocompare 
cant collect and hold accurate information about Dr Ls gender, as Dr L cannot give accurate 
information about gender. Dr L feels this is an erasure of identity, which they find frustrating 
and insulting.
Dr L also points out that gender is not required in order to generate an insurance quote and 
comments that it is illegal to use gender as a differentiating factor in generating insurance 
quotes. Dr L also points out it may be desirable for monitoring purposes to know the gender 
of your customers, but its not essential. Dr L says by enforcing the collection of unnecessary 
information, Gocompare are in breach of GDPR.
Dr L has said Gocompares failure to enable non-binary individuals to access quotes through 
its comparison website goes against long-standing industry advice and leads to poor 
customer service.
Dr L also asked Gocompare to advise them how they could enable Dr L to access its service 
in good time for them to obtain quotes so that Dr L can have insurance in place.
Gocompare responded to Dr Ls complaint and apologised for incorrect terminology used by 
one of its customer representatives when dealing with Dr L.
Gocompare apologised for any inconvenience their title list had caused Dr L when trying to 
use its website.
Gocompare indicated its currently investigating and exploring with its panel of insurers how 
it can go about updating the title list in order to make it more extensive and allow customers 
to choose a title. Gocompare said it aims to keep the data they hold as accurate as possible 
and understands the frustrations of Dr L with not being able to select the correct title.
Go compare agreed with Dr L, that it is illegal for insurers to use gender as a differentiating 
factor in generating insurance quotes, and therefore the insurers on its panel would not use 
gender derived from someones title as a factor when calculating the cost of the insurance 
premium.
Our investigator has looked at the merits of the case and, whilst understanding the distress 
this may have caused Dr L, our investigators view was not to uphold the complaint.  Our 
investigator explained that she thought that Gocompare had taken Dr Ls complaint 
seriously.  But she could not hold Gocompare responsible for the information requirements 
of the individual insurers that it uses to provide customers with an insurance quote.  Our 
investigator explained as a service we cant make a business change its processes, but she 
did recognise that Gocompare are taking steps with its own insurers on its panel to support 
changes across the industry.
Dr L didnt accept our investigators conclusions, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dr L has indicated unhappiness at not being offered a non-binary option which matched their 
personal gender identity when seaching Gocompares comparison website.  The purpose of 
the website is to provide access to a number of insurance providers to search out the most 
competitive quote for insurance cover selected.  Through inputting an individuals personal 
information, the comparison website is able to link up with a wide range of insurance 
providers to quickly identify what the cost of insurance would be for each provider, given the 
insurance cover that has been requested.
I can see in Dr Ls circumstances it must be extremely frustrating not to be able to enter 
personal information that is specific to them, in order to generate a list of competitive 
insurance quotes.  However, I agree with our investigator that it would be unfair to hold 
Gocompare responsible for what is an industry wide issue. 
In order for Gocompare to provide a service it needs to collect information from customers 
that align with the information that insurers have requested, otherwise Gocompare will not be 
able to get an insurance quote from an insurer and then compare these quotes on its 
website for its own customers.
Gocompare acknowledge there is a need for the industry to evolve and by liaising with its 
own panel of insurers, I think it has shown a reasonable level of willingness to engage with 
the companies who will need to lead this change.  As a service we cant ask Gocompare to 
change its own processes to something that will not align with insurance companies, as 
doing so would stop it from being able to carry out trade.
Dr L pointed out that information related to gender should not be influencing the insurance 
quote.  Gocompare in its response to Dr L confirmed that the insurers on its panel would not 
use gender derived from someones title as a factor when calculating the cost of the 
insurance premium.  I am therefore comfortable that Gocompare only collect information on 
gender because its a requirement from the insurance company.  I dont have any evidence 
to suggest otherwise.
Overall, I do not see enough evidence against Gocompare to suggest they have acted 
unreasonably and for this reason I dont uphold this particular complaint.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman