DRN-2981389
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr E is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr E bought solar panels for his home in or around August 2018. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr E into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were clearly compared with their cost (including the interest on the loan), and so 
he did not agree that a misrepresentation had taken place. He saw no other reason to 
uphold the complaint. Neither party responded by the deadline, and so the case was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint either. That 
is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels clearly sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels, and the estimated benefits were clearly not enough to cover 
the cost.
On the page headed Customer Summary, it sets out the total estimated savings and feed-
in tariff (FIT) income for the first year with the panels, which is £273.12. This is highlighted. 
Immediately below that is the total of the loan repayments in the same year, which is 
£928.36, or more than three times the benefit in the same period. I think these figures are 
conspicuous; they are not buried in some fine print.
So I think this makes it clear that the panels would not pay for themselves. For this reason, 
I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr E about the benefits and cost of the panels. It 
was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between the installer and Mr E. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,204 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Es FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,145 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
The CMC has also argued that the total cost of the system was documented as £7,000 to 
mislead Mr E, as when the interest was added the total cost was actually £9,238.60. 
However, I think this point is unpersuasive. The credit agreement provided to Mr E makes it 
abundantly clear that the overall cost of the system is £9,238.60. This sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £7,000, the total amount of credit is the same, the total charge for 
credit is £2238.60, and it goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £9,238.60.
As the contract is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out above, 
Im satisfied that the two documents, the contract and the credit agreement, made it clear 
that it would cost Mr E more than the cash price as he had decided to pay for it with an 
interest-bearing loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman