DRN-2468304
The complaint
B has complained about the decision of China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to decline its 
claim for losses sustained following interruption to its business as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
B held a retail insurance policy underwritten by China Taiping. In March 2020, B was 
required by the Governments restrictions to close its premises. B contacted China Taiping to 
claim for the losses it sustained as a result of this closure. 
China Taiping declined the claim. It said although Bs policy provided cover for business 
interruption, the circumstances of the claim were not included in that cover. China Taiping 
said the core cover provided was for business interruption as a result of damage, but that 
there was no damage that had caused B to close. China Taiping said there were additional 
areas of cover under the business interruption section of the policy. But the Disease 
extension was based on a specified list of illnesses that did not include COVID-19. And the 
policy did not provide cover for pandemics or any Government enforced closures. China 
Taiping also said that, although B may have suffered some loss of stock as a result of being 
closed, damage to stock is only in the circumstances of the insured perils such as for 
example Fire, storm, etc. and that this was not the situation here.
B was unhappy with this and complained. China Taiping didnt change its stance though, 
and Bs complaint was referred to this service. However, our investigator also didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said Bs losses had not been caused by Damage, so in 
these circumstances there was no cover under the core business interruption section, or the 
extensions that require Damage. He also said that as the Disease cover provided was 
limited to a specific list of diseases that did not include COVID-19, this claim was not 
covered by this extension.  
The investigator also said that a further extension, the Public Emergency extension, did not 
cover the circumstances of the claim. He said that there was an exclusion to this extension 
relating to infectious or contagious disease. And that as COVID-19 had caused the losses, 
and was an infectious or contagious disease, cover was excluded. 
The investigator has also said to B that its loss of stock would also not be covered, as this 
loss wasnt caused by one of the insured perils listed in the contents section of Bs policy. 
And that even if it could be considered under the accidental damage peril, there is an 
exclusion for damage caused by inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration.
As such, the investigator didnt think China Taiping had acted in appropriately in declining 
the claim. The directors of B remained unsatisfied with this and so this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on B, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the investigators.
Core business interruption cover
I understand that B closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy B took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Bs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Bs business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Bs claim. And I think 
China Taiping acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Bs claim under this area of cover.
Disease extension
Bs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases.
The Disease extension in Bs policy says cover is provided for:
The occurrence of
(a) Acute Encephalitis Acute Poliomyelitis Anthrax Chickenpox Cholera Diphtheria 
Dysentery Legionellosis Legionnaires Disease Leprosey Leptospirosis Malaria 
Measles Meningococcal infection Mumps Opthalmia Neonatorum Paratyphoid 
Fever Plague Rabies Rubella Scarlet Fever Smallpox Tetanus Tuberculosis 
Typhoid Fever Viral Hepatitis Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever sustained by any 
person at the Premises

where use of the Premises is restricted on the order or advice of the competent 
authority
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided B with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for China Taiping to include it in 
the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think China Taiping intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases. China Taiping deliberately chose to define the cover by reference to a static list of 
certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy B has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy B has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Bs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Bs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied China Taipings decision to decline the 
claim under this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this 
case fair and reasonable.
Public Emergency extension
The last extension to the business interruption section that might have been relevant to Bs 
claim provides cover for losses caused by: 
The actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely to 
endanger life or property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use or access to the Premises
However, this extension also excludes any loss:
as a result of infectious or contagious diseases
As the investigator explained in his view, COVID-19 is an infectious or contagious disease. 
The means that because the any actions or advice taken by a relevant authority that led to 
the closure of B, in the circumstances of this claim, were taken as a result of COVID-19, the 
losses are as a result of an excluded circumstance  i.e. an infectious or contagious disease. 
As such, I am unable to say that China Taiping has acted inappropriately by declining Bs 
claim under this extension either. 
Loss of stock
B has also said that is suffered a loss of stock as a result of being closed. It is 
understandable that perishable goods may not have lasted throughout the lockdown period, 
and that B would not have been able to sell these whilst it was closed. 
However, whilst Bs policy does provide cover in relation to loss of stock, this is limited to 
losses caused by particular events  which the policy calls insured perils. These cover events such as fire, storm, theft, etc. However, the cause of Bs loss of stock was the 
government-restrictions introduced as a result of COVID-19. And this does not fall under any 
of the insured perils. 
I dont consider the cause of this deterioration in stock would likely fall under the insured peril 
relating to accidental damage. But even if it did, I agree with the investigator that the 
exclusion on damage caused under this peril by inherent vice latent defect gradual 
deterioration means that Bs losses here wouldnt be covered. The gradual deterioration of 
the stock was a result of the inherent nature of that stock. 
So, I dont consider China Taiping acted inappropriately by declining Bs claim for loss of 
stock either. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means China Taiping should have met Bs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for B and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman