DRN-4142397
The complaint
Mr C complains that FIL Wealth Management Limited (Fidelity) wrongly advised him not to 
transfer out of his defined benefit (DB) pension. He says its comparison does not take into 
account his personal objectives and existing assets. Its report was issued without any further 
consultation with him, and no consideration was shown for the impact this outcome would 
have on him and his family: he is unable to transfer his DB pension when he believes it is to 
his benefit to do so.
What happened
Fidelity first spoke to Mr C in April 2021. He was looking for advice on transferring his DB 
scheme, which he had left in June 2017 (and taken early retirement) as a result of his 
employers decision to replace that scheme with a defined contribution scheme. He sent a 
list of his objectives to Fidelity. In summary, these were:
Increased death benefits for spouse  he said this was his no.1 priority
Control / flexibility of planning retirement income  being able to use up savings 
where available, make partial payments of tax-free cash to reduce tax liabilities, and 
accessing more of the pension unexpectedly in the event of ill health
Protection from employer insolvency  his employer had closed the DB scheme due 
to a funding shortfall, and he was worried that the support under the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF) could reduce in future
An income need of about £32-36,000 per year (net).
Mr C had been granted a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £744,000 which expired 
in May 2021 while he was waiting for an appointment with Fidelity. Hes explained that 
Fidelity told him its recommendations could be based initially on this value, as it would take 
4-6 months to go through the advice process and a new CETV would only have a validity 
period of three months. So, he agreed to proceed on that basis.
Fidelity explained at the outset that its fee would be £7,435 (which would further attract VAT 
if it was unable to recommend that Mr C transferred, so that the fee was settled in cash). If it 
did recommend a transfer and Mr C transferred to Fidelity, additional charges were payable 
based on the investments involved. Although Fidelity couldnt offer this, Mr C said he wasnt 
interested in receiving abridged advice  he agreed with the adviser that a full review which 
could lead directly to a recommendation to transfer was the best way to proceed. Hes told 
us that he found abridged advice elsewhere cost almost as much as Fidelity was charging. 
In July 2021 Mr C signed Fidelitys terms of business, which included noting that We will not 
arrange pension transfers we believe are not in your best interests and you will be unable to 
transfer your pension to Fidelity. Mr C told us he was aware that a number of other 
mainstream SIPP providers (including those he and his wife already had SIPPs with) were 
no longer permitting transfers from DB schemes that were against advice, either.
Fidelity carried out a fact find which recorded:
Mr C was 59 and had retired in 2017
His wife was four years older than him. They had no children
They both had underlying medical conditions which were controlled by medication. 
Mr and Mrs C felt these could get worse as they got older
They had no mortgage or other liabilities
He and his wife were each withdrawing £12,500pa from drawdown pension plans
They had joint annual expenditure of about £34,000, werent expecting this to 
increase above £36,000, and were using savings to make up the shortfall
They had a total together of about £117,000 in savings, mainly in equity ISAs
They desired a joint inflation-linked income of £30-36,000pa net in 2-3 years time, 
and for either of them to have about £25,000pa net after the first death
He was concerned about the long term reliability of his DB scheme and the fact it 
only paid a 50% pension to his wife.
Mr Cs DB scheme had a normal retirement age of 65. Hed been a member for 27 years. 
His other drawdown plan had a remaining fund value of £32,000. He was due to receive a 
state pension of about £9,000pa from 2028, as would his wife from 2023  and she had a 
DB pension set to pay out income of £2,800pa and a lump sum of £14,000 at age 65. They 
were separately looking into the possibility of accessing the £100,000 transfer value of this 
scheme. She also had about £350,000 remaining in her drawdown plan as a result of 
making a previous transfer from a DB scheme.
Fidelity went through its fact find with Mr C in a phone call in August 2021. The adviser 
warned Mr C that flexibility, in and of itself, was not an overriding reason to transfer - given 
the regulators starting position that most people would be suitably advised to remain in their 
DB scheme. Mr C mentioned to Fidelity that he and his wife were both advised not to 
transfer three years previously (his wife subsequently transferred her DB pension against 
advice), and anticipated having to go through a painful time in order to do so here. 
Fidelity went on to explain that in order for it to be able to advise Mr C, an objective needed 
to be quantified  such as an income a customer would need to live on in retirement. This 
was the primary person of a pension plan. Mr C says that he agreed to the advisers re-
drafting of his objectives on the basis that he thought the adviser was supporting his 
intentions as the client. 
During the call, Fidelity discussed Mr Cs attitude to risk and concluded it was 4 (medium) on 
a scale from 1-7. After further discussion with Mr C he amended this to a 3 (small to 
medium), as he felt that markets were at a high and there would be a correction  although 
he was reluctant to be pigeonholed into a single category. Level 3 was defined as 
associating risk with uncertainty, usually being more concerned about possible losses than 
gains, for most people wanting to safeguard against inflation, and being reluctant to tolerate 
more than a 10% fall in value.
Fidelity carried out transfer analysis and stochastic modelling, and reached a collective 
decision from a panel of DB transfer experts as to whether Mr C should transfer. The adviser 
sent a suitability report to Mr C on 29 September 2021. Its conclusions were:
- The Transfer Value Comparator (TVC) determined that it would cost Mr C about 
£1.34m (rather than the £744,000 CETV) to secure a similar level of income from an 
insurance company at the age of 65, as his DB scheme would provide. 
- Mr C would get a DB pension of about £33,000pa if he retired at 65. If he transferred 
this would mean achieving a critical yield (allowing for charges) of about 10%pa 
- Omitting the annual increases and spouses benefits brought the critical yield down to 
0.83%pa. Both figures were based on a full scheme pension, before tax-free cash.
- If he invested in funds suitable for his attitude to risk until age 65 (estimated to 
achieve an average return of 5.7%pa), and then bought an annuity underwritten for his health, it would be less than the projected DB pension  at about £28,500pa.
- He would need to amass a fund at age 65 of about £954,700 to be able to buy the 
same annuity as the DB pension, taking his health conditions into account. (Based on 
a 5-year term, as Mr C was now nearly 60, Ive calculated this meant net annual 
growth of around 5.1% - the product and advice charges would be in addition.) 
Fidelitys modelling said that only 13% of investment scenarios would achieve this.
- He could receive about £24,200pa if he retired immediately from the DB scheme. But 
again, an open market annuity could only secure him about £20,300pa. 
- Using stochastic modelling, Fidelity had found that there was a 99% chance of 
sustaining his DB income under drawdown to the average male life expectancy (84), 
and a 57% chance of sustaining it until age 100.
The report also said that underwriters had assessed Mr Cs life expectancy to be broadly in 
line with the national average, notwithstanding the health conditions hed noted. Fidelity 
concluded that all these measures combined, meant that the CETV didnt appear to be 
reasonable compensation for the guaranteed benefits Mr C would be giving up. It also noted 
that Mr Cs DB scheme was close to being fully funded at nearly 97%, and referred to the 
level of support available from the Pension Protection Fund in the event that the employer 
became insolvent with an underfunded scheme. 
The adviser had noted that only Mr and Mrs Cs state pensions would increase in line with 
inflation, and Mr C was concerned to be able to protect his future essential expenditure in 
this way. Mr C was prepared to give up the DB guarantees and consider income drawdown, 
had a good knowledge of investments and took an active interest in following investment 
markets. But the adviser assessed that he didnt have the capacity to accept a reduction in 
what would be his main source of income in retirement.
Mr and Mrs C could comfortably meet their joint income requirement by taking his DB 
scheme benefits and combining them with both state pensions from 2028 (total over 
£42,000pa gross). The shortfall before 2028 could be met from their existing savings and 
investments. On Mr Cs death, Mrs C would receive in total £24,000pa gross which would 
also go a long way to meeting her requirements. Having less reliance on the other pensions 
(including Mrs Cs drawdown plan) reduced sequencing risk: that is, needing to withdraw 
income during periods when unit values were depressed.
In terms of Mr Cs objective to leave more assets to his wife from a drawdown fund, the 
adviser explained that this wasnt guaranteed  as his fund could run low if the markets 
underperformed. He suggested life insurance was a more suitable way of increasing what 
Mrs C would receive on his death.
At the same time as posting the suitability report, the adviser emailed Mr C offering a date to 
schedule a meeting, to go through this report with you and to answer any questions that you 
may have. But Mr C wasnt happy with the lack of opportunity he had to rebut the 
conclusions reached before the report was issued. He considered Fidelity had ignored his 
real objectives, which now included getting a yearly return of 2.5% to 6% and to ensure long 
term wealth for his wife. 
Mr C explained that he had £165,000 of savings, so he didnt need to touch his DB scheme 
at all. He said if he got ill, he wanted to use more of his pension up before he died and/or 
pass it to his wife. On his death, she would only get £12,000 yearly from the DB scheme, 
and he felt this was only a 1.6% return on his CETV previously quoted at about £743,000. 
And the inflationary increases the DB scheme would provide (which varied between tranches 
of benefit) were limited to 3.4% on average in periods of higher inflation.Mr C went through a process of agreeing revised objectives with the adviser. His income 
requirement was now £40-£50,000pa net, linked to inflation, from all sources  remaining 
unchanged after the first death. They might need £25,000 for a further hip replacement for 
Mrs C within 10 years. And they could need about £150,000 to move home in the next three 
to five years. And on his death, he would like to leave a minimum amount of £300,000 from 
this pension to Mrs C.
Fidelity acknowledged the future ability to take lump sums at different stages (as opposed to 
all at the outset from the DB scheme) was important to Mr C, but cautioned him that this was 
unlikely to provide a compelling enough case to transfer  as it wasnt a well-defined 
objective. Nor was achieving a certain growth rate an objective, in terms of deciding whether 
or not Mr C should transfer in the first place. However it noted that Mr C would like this 
control and flexibility over his fund, alongside the other quantified objectives and wrote out to 
him asking him to confirm these. Mr C remained concerned at the process Fidelity would use 
to reassess his transfer and his concerns were treated as a complaint.
Fidelitys response to Mr Cs complaint
In its final response on 19 November 2021, Fidelity said it assessed Mr Cs situation as a 
whole including his originally agreed objectives and needs, and concluded that Mr and Mrs C 
would be dependent on his DB scheme throughout retirement. It had also been willing to 
revisit those objectives when Mr C queried them, but in its view there was no compelling 
reason to recommend a transfer which would involve Mr C taking on the inflation, longevity 
and investment risk already being met by the DB scheme itself.
Fidelity explained that it was required by FCA guidance to consider Mr Cs realistic 
retirement income needs including: (i) how they can be achieved; (ii) the role played by 
safeguarded benefitsin achieving them; and (iii) the consequent impact on those needs of 
a transfer (COBS 19.1.6G). It also quoted an FCA guidance paper (FG21/3) which said: 
features of the pension freedoms are not client objectivesIf your firm gives advice based 
on objectives such as flexibility or control of my pension, these are unlikely to be 
sufficiently personalised to enable you to provide a suitable personal recommendation. It 
noted that Mr C didnt have an immediate need to access lump sums.
Fidelity also noted that Mr C had referred to the previous advice hed got not to transfer his 
DB scheme as being unfair, in his first call with the adviser. So, it thought he was aware 
Fidelity could arrive at the same conclusion. It believed it treated him fairly at every stage of 
the advice process and in line with the rules and guidance it must follow.
Despite issuing a final response so that he could refer his complaint to our service, Fidelity 
continued to respond to Mr Cs questions. On 26 November 2021, it explained the difficulty it 
and Mr C would have in being able to agree whether advice based on the objectives Mr C 
wanted to use would be suitable:
As currently written, these objectives raise more questions than they set goals or aims.
The challenge with having non-specific objectives is how will you know when you have achieved 
them? How can we prove our recommendation will or will not achieve them? We would probably 
never agree on whether a recommendation was suitable for you or not if we provided advice on 
this basis.

We could not in all consciousness deliberately recommend you give up a guaranteed, inflation 
linked income, payable to yourself and your wife for the rest of your lives, when
the evidence we have from the information youve provided clearly demonstrates you will need an 
income from this pension in retirement.Mr C produced calculations, which he suggested meant he could invest the CETV without 
much risk, and still match the inflation-linked DB pension over his and Mrs Cs lifetime. But in 
a follow-up letter, Fidelity explained that its stochastic analysis also took into account the 
worst-case scenario of (for example) poor investment returns coupled with high inflation for 
the next ten years, and Mr and Mrs C exceeding their life expectancies. It felt that Mr Cs 
analysis focused too much on the current market and economic situation remaining broadly 
favourable, when there was ample historical evidence that these factors do change.
Fidelity clarified that it was willing to update its advice free of charge based on a revised 
CETV, as well as Mr Cs clarified objectives. This was so that it would be able to sign an 
Appropriate Advice Declaration form confirming it had advised on the latest CETV, in the 
event that Mr C wanted, and was able, to transfer elsewhere (should it still not be able to 
support a transfer to Fidelity). It extended this offer for three months from December 2021.
Our Investigators view  in summary
- The FCA has long made clear that the starting point when advising a retail client on a 
DB transfer is to assume that the transfer will not be suitable, unless it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the client's best 
interests." (COBS 19.1.6G in the regulators handbook)
- The fact finding process indicated Mr C had a low capacity for loss. The DB pension 
represented 27 years of service, which meant the guaranteed benefits offered by the 
DB scheme played an important part in his overall provision.
- His other assets, whilst significant, were still relatively low in relation to the amount of 
pension savings he was putting at risk in the transfer. And his low to medium attitude 
to risk suggested he should not be expected to risk ending up with benefits of a lower 
overall value if the markets didnt perform or if he lived well into his nineties.
- FIL analysed Mr Cs objectives, needs, assets, ability to manage his own finances 
and quantified objectives in terms of his and his wifes income targets. It also showed 
(from the TVC) that the CETV being offered wasnt good value.
- Mr C said that a key objective was for his retirement income to keep up with inflation. 
However his DB scheme already guaranteed some inflation proofing and there would 
be no such inflation protection in a drawdown plan without taking investment risk.
- The calls and documents prove Fidelitys communication with Mr C was open and 
there was discussion about his objectives. Theres no evidence it set out to upset 
him, and its entitled to charge Mr C the fee it set out for its work.
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigator. He doesnt consider that transferring to a SIPP to buy 
an annuity (which was the basis of the TVC) would have been viable for him. He thought 
Fidelity wasnt interested in him or in answering his questions, and its attitude has led to him 
having to give up capital he could have had from the DB transfer.
Mr C also made some criticisms of the approach the FCA guidance takes on DB transfers, 
and how that has meant that there are now fewer advisers willing to carry out this work (or at 
higher cost). But he said he wasnt complaining because the advice was, ultimately, not to 
transfer. He was complaining because Fidelity didnt correctly take his objectives into 
account. He would have been happy to agree with its advice not to transfer if I receive clear 
financial data that this is the case. He thought the potential benefits of transferring to a SIPP 
should not be ignored, and should have been detailed in the suitability report.
Theres been a substantial amount of further correspondence since Mr Cs initial reaction to 
the Investigators view, setting out his dissatisfaction with the advice process and how he 
could manage the funds in such a way to last his and his wifes lifetimes. Some of this correspondence has been shared with Fidelity and the Investigator also arranged for it to 
have a conversation with Mr C about how its stochastic modelling system works. Ive read 
the correspondence in full, but Ill only summarise the main points here:
Mr C objects to Fidelity dismissing his objectives of flexibility and control when 
these are used as selling points in the brochure for its drawdown product. He no 
longer wishes to describe his objectives in these terms, but rather as finding the right 
solution to meet his needs.
He thinks Fidelitys focus on critical yields and TVC (which tend to show transfers are 
unviable financially) is skewing the end result of a recommendation not to transfer.
The inclusion of the assets in his wifes SIPP in particular gave them significantly 
more capacity for loss on this DB transfer than suggested in the Investigators view. 
Without even investing these, plus his savings, combined with their state pensions, 
they will come close to meeting Mr Cs original income requirement at no risk.
He expects Fidelitys stochastic cashflow analysis to come up with an investment 
return, similar to a critical yield for annuity purchase, to show at what rate an invested 
drawdown pot can match the DB pension.
He believes this rate is 2%pa (plus charges) for him to reach age 95, assuming the 
same DB income is withdrawn with inflationary increases. This is much less than the 
5.7% achievable rate Fidelity mentioned when discussing the critical yield, so Fidelity 
hasnt dealt with him fairly or honestly.
Fidelity was overly focused on the moderate (57%) chance of his funds being 
sustained to age 100 when measured across a variety of investment conditions.
In reality, both he and his wife have medical issues, any of which could reduce their 
life expectancy further. He has found a figure for male life expectancy of 80 in any 
event  not the age 84 Fidelity used.
Fidelitys analysis is overly focused on whether he will match the DB pension in 
extended life, rather than the amount by which he could benefit in earlier retirement.
Fidelity has told him there need to be compelling reasons to recommend a transfer, 
and this differs from FCA guidance. Where is the list of reasons that are deemed to 
be compelling?
The FCAs Final Guidance FG21/3 says that objectives should not be generic, but 
personal to every client  and the adviser needs to understand their clients 
circumstances to give suitable advice. This hasnt been done in Mr Cs case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr C does understand that there is a significant body of rules and guidance 
which Fidelity  and any other adviser hes used or may use in future  have to follow from 
the FCA when assessing the suitability of DB transfer advice. These rules and guidance 
exist precisely because of a number of high-profile episodes of mis-selling, which has also 
resulted in complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr C has been critical of the 
FCAs approach, for example its view that flexibility and control are not quantifiable 
objectives. 
However, when assessing any complaint I must reach a conclusion that is fair and 
reasonable, taking into account the law, guidance, rules and standards and what I consider to be good industry practice. The considerable amount of guidance and rules from the FCA, 
has itself impacted on good industry practice in this area and I am bound to have regard for 
that in reaching my decision. So, whilst I recognise that Mr C is not happy with this, I will not 
be questioning the basis for those rules and guidance being in place in this decision. That is 
a matter for the regulator, not this service.
I will address Mr Cs concerns about his transfer and the outcome the Investigator reached 
under the following broad headings:
The amendment of Mr Cs objectives
Ive listened to the discussions and how the objectives Mr C wrote down when he first met 
Fidelity differed from those it sent back to him. Im satisfied that Fidelity explained fairly and 
reasonably why its advice would need to be given on the basis of firm, quantifiable 
objectives such as his income level and that required for Mrs C on his death, rather than 
concepts such as flexibility and control. It correctly referred to the regulators own views on 
this subject, as it must be mindful of this as a regulated firm.
I appreciate that Mr C sought later on to increase his income objective and add in further 
requirements for lump sums, as well as to reintroduce the flexibility and control reasons. 
Fidelity agreed to revisit its advice as a result of these. That doesnt seem to have happened 
due to a breakdown in trust between Mr C and Fidelity. But I dont think that the adviser has 
done anything wrong here in seeking, initially, to downplay those objectives which he knew 
the panel of DB transfer experts who would be assessing the advice to transfer  in line with 
FCA guidance  would not find persuasive. 
Fidelity has already addressed with Mr C why the promotional pack for its drawdown plan 
refers to flexibility and control. These are features of the plan and can be very attractive to 
some individuals as against the main alternative  buying an annuity. But this is when 
looking at such a plan in isolation: investing a purchase price that would be the same versus 
taking an annuity. The point about Mr Cs DB transfer is that this same comparison couldnt 
be made. The TVC showed that significantly more funds were needed outside the scheme to 
secure the same annuity benefits that the scheme already provided  and that was before 
the potential alternative benefits of drawdown were even considered.
Fidelity left the objectives that did suggest potentially plausible reasons for transferring in 
place in its initial advice. But I think at the heart of this dispute also lies a difference in 
opinion between Mr C and Fidelity (and for that matter, the regulator and good industry 
practice built up around its rules and guidance) about whether Mr C is protecting he and his 
wifes financial position better in the DB scheme or outside it. 
Mr Cs references to security and protection
There was a theme running amongst the calls I listened to where Mr C would use these 
terms in suggesting that his wife was better protected on his death, if he made the DB 
transfer. Other than the obvious conclusion that the residual fund would be worth a lot more 
than the spouses DB pension if Mr C died early, he clearly feels that she is better protected 
throughout her lifetime  and this extends to his position also.
 
Connected with this was Mr Cs belief, which he explained to the adviser, that his DB 
scheme would fall into financial difficulty. He noted that he had been one of the last 
employees to join it, and others might have been enjoying their pension for many years 
before a funding issue might then have arisen  and he didnt want that worry when he was 
in his 80s or 90s. Indeed he appeared to have left the service of his ex-employer as a result 
of these concerns.Fidelity did of course tell Mr C in its suitability report that the DB scheme was almost fully 
funded. So it didnt think he had reason to be concerned here. There was also the protection 
afforded by the PPF: most of Mr Cs pension would be protected (apart from some of the 
annual increases and a lower calculation of the spouses pension), because it was under the 
PPFs annual cap. But I appreciate it was a very personal issue for Mr C that he didnt have 
confidence in his employers (or the governments) future funding of these benefits, and 
would be happier having them under his direct control.
That doesnt mean that Fidelitys advice was wrong, however. I think what the adviser picked 
up on was that Mr C also didnt have a particularly high attitude to risk, and was also 
somewhat nervous about the markets  he thought that they were at a recent high and there 
was going to be a correction. So he wanted to invest, for the time being, in a more cautious 
manner. In my view, the adviser was entitled to recognise that Mr C seemed to be 
underplaying the level of protection the DB scheme (and in the worst case scenario, the 
PPF) already provided for him and his wife, and using terms such as security or protection 
that didnt naturally apply to a drawdown plan that was exposed to multiple risks.
Mr C has been looking to amend his objectives to omit references to security of his wifes 
position but rather focus on improving the level of her spouses pension instead (I will 
address this later on). But hes continued to refer to security and capital protection in terms 
of the flexibility and control a drawdown plan would give him  ie that being able to draw out 
sums as and when hed like to makes him feel more secure. Mr C has said that variable 
benefits provide increased financial support in the short, medium and long term. 
I can see why Fidelity would regard these comments, combined with Mr Cs lower than 
medium attitude to risk, as being indicative that Mr Cs best interests would be better served 
by remaining in the DB scheme. Even though Mr C did show he understood at various times 
during the recordings Ive listened to that the DB pension had much more in the way of 
guarantees than going down the drawdown route, at other times I think Fidelity had reason 
to be concerned that he was wanting to take risks that were less likely to give him the 
security and protection he was seeking. 
This is further shown in the call to discuss the suitability report, where Mr C compared his 
situation with inheriting a sum of £745,000. He said Fidelity would be only too happy to 
invest that sum for him and that was contradicting its stance on the DB transfer. In my view 
the two arent comparable, unless Mr C had inherited an income stream for life that was 
worth £745,000  and the consideration was whether to give up that stream in exchange for 
a lump sum  in which case many of the same considerations would apply as do here.
Relevance of TVC and critical yields to Fidelitys analysis
Mr C has commented If I understand correctly the Fidelity process for making a decision to 
support a transfer is primarily based on the above TVC result?I was certainly not aware 
that I was signing up for a pension review that from the start Fidelity knew they would not 
support as a TVC report will always conclude that an annuity is a more expensive 
commodity than a CETV.
Mr C knows that Fidelity has to provide a TVC under the regulators rules (this is set out at 
COBS 19.1.3A R). The critical yield also comes from a similar starting point, which is how 
much it would cost to replace the DB pension (and spouses benefits) being given up  but 
that is shown in terms of how much annual growth is then needed until retirement, rather 
than comparing two capital sums. Mr C is correct that in most DB transfers there is a stark difference in the capital sum, or a 
relatively high rate of growth needed. Its important for this information to be provided  as 
this shows the inherent value in the guarantee provided by the DB scheme, which cant be 
replicated at the same cost elsewhere. Likewise, the other analyses Fidelity did of the yield 
required excluding the spouses pension and annual increases, or if his DB pension fell 
under the PPF, show the relative value of those guarantees.
This doesnt mean that Fidelitys advice turns solely on this point. Some people may be 
appropriately advised to give up the guarantee  perhaps because they are willing to take 
high risks, combined with the pension theyre transferring not being a major portion of their 
pension provision. So its only one part of the analysis. And its also important that Mr C is 
fully informed even if he doesnt want to follow Fidelitys advice. I also dont disagree with 
Mr C that the stochastic modelling Fidelity undertook, which is part of the Appropriate 
Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA, at COBS 19.1.2B R) is another relevant consideration. 
So, Ill consider this next.
Mr C and Fidelitys disagreement about what the APTA shows 
From what I can see, Fidelitys analysis provided both deterministic and stochastic (i.e. 
based on probability) answers on how long Mr Cs pension pot might last. Firstly, it said that 
if an income equal to the DB pension increasing with inflation was taken by drawdown from 
2026, and Mr Cs drawdown fund grew at the middle projection rate (which I note would 
arguably be a little too high for Mr Cs attitude to risk), the fund would run out at age 100. 
I note Mr C has done his own calculations based on different assumptions, which are also 
deterministic calculations. I wont go into these in detail, because what Im considering here 
is whether Fidelitys analysis could be said to be unfair or unreasonable, not whether Mr Cs 
analysis provides a viewpoint that might also have validity. Some of Mr Cs calculations seek 
to compare the annual inflationary increase to the DB scheme pension with the critical yield 
 when these are two measures of two quite separate things. But the key point is that Mr C 
doesnt think there is much risk he (and Mrs C) will live long enough for the pot to run out, 
whereas Fidelity is more concerned about that risk.
A main part of Fidelitys concern comes down to the stochastic modelling, which Mr Cs 
calculations cant replicate. Fidelitys graph explains that it had run a thousand different 
investment scenarios to produce the range of outcomes shown. My understanding is that 
these reflect assets appropriate to Mr Cs attitude to risk, and include periods of high inflation 
and low investment growth, and vice versa, and so on. Naturally, the assumption of very 
good economic performance suggested there would be no problem with Mr C sustaining his 
and his wifes income  they would likely be better off from his DB transfer. This could of 
course not be guaranteed.
It was the assumption of average economic performance that Fidelity mentioned in its 
suitability report, and I agree it was reasonable for Fidelity to focus on this given that it 
couldnt know whether future economic conditions would be better or worse than the present 
over the next 30-40 years. But Mr C is unhappy with Fidelitys view that at an average 
economic performance, having only a 57% chance of his pension pot lasting to age 100 is a 
potential problem for him. 
To compound Mr Cs unhappiness Fidelity referred in its suitability report to this modelling, 
as well as the TVC and critical yield, as all showing that the CETV offered poor value. I think 
in reality the case for the stochastic modelling is more debateable because it offers such a 
variable analysis, but again that doesnt mean I think Fidelity was wrong to suggest that Mr C 
should still be concerned about being worse off from transferring. He had a lower than 
medium attitude to risk  and in fact was fearing a correction in the markets, which was one such scenario the modelling was seeking to take into account. And the regulator expected 
Fidelity to stress test its modelling beyond the age of Mr Cs normal life expectancy. If 
Fidelity didnt do this, then the inherent benefit of the DB pension insuring Mr (and Mrs C) 
against longevity wasnt fairly being factored into analysis. 
Whilst I understand Mr C feels that this suggests that his and Mrs Cs ability to enjoy use of 
the funds in earlier retirement is being overlooked, I dont think Fidelity is doing anything 
wrong here. The whole point is that the DB pension should be viewed as giving him the 
security of having an income to enjoy in early retirement that will not then run out later on, 
unlike potentially a drawdown pot will. He is entitled to take a different view to this, but its 
inherent to Fidelity needing to give him suitable advice that it has viewed things in this way.
Although high inflation (which causes the DB pension increases to be capped) was one of 
the scenarios being considered in Fidelitys analysis, it wasnt the only scenario. Since 
Fidelitys advice was given it now seems more likely that there will be higher inflation for a 
period to come. But todays economic situation wasnt prevailing at the time of Fidelitys 
analysis and has to be viewed as one of the many different scenarios it took into account.
Fundamentally, however, I can see that Mr C disagrees with Fidelitys stochastic modelling 
because he thinks it has got his life expectancy wrong. So Ive considered this next.
Mr Cs view of his (and Mrs Cs) life expectancy
Mr C has made the point that the stochastic modelling would show a more promising 
probability that his pension funds would last to  and beyond  the realistic lifetimes of 
himself and his wife. Hes referred to probabilities that would likely be better at ages 90 and 
95  in the region of 80% or 70%. It stands to reason that the percentages would be higher 
at these ages.
Whilst I note the various medical conditions Mr C has cited for himself and his wife, Ive 
taken into account that the fact find recorded these were being controlled with medication. 
Fidelity went on to get an underwritten annuity quote as part of its analysis, which suggested 
there would be negligible impact on his life expectancy. That might seem contradictory to 
Mr C given the statistics hes produced of the number of people dying with the conditions he 
has, but its important to remember that at the average life expectancy of age 84, many more 
people will have these conditions. So thats to some extent already taken into account in a 
national life expectancy figure. And I dont think Fidelitys figure for male life expectancy is 
wrong: Mr Cs figure of age 80 is closer to the life expectancy of a male at birth, whereas 
current figures for life expectancy of a male who is already 60 is closer to 84.
So in conclusion, I dont think its wrong for an adviser (whose role is to look dispassionately 
at the statistics) to consider the possibility Mr or Mrs C will live significantly beyond Mr Cs 
age 84 in their analysis. I appreciate Mr C has referred to his mother dying relatively young 
with a similar condition to his, and that may be affecting his view. Fidelity has given him 
information from which he can see that if he did die younger than the statistics might 
suggest, there is more potential for his wife to be better off. But that doesnt mean Fidelitys 
advice should change. It just means he may feel he has reasons for choosing to disregard 
that advice and seek to transfer his pension regardless. I dont need to agree or disagree 
with Mr C here; he is entitled to his own view. But nor does Fidelity have to agree with him.
I think it would also, reasonably, form part of the analysis that Mr and Mrs C dont have any 
direct descendants to also benefit from a residual drawdown fund. And under his DB 
scheme, the spouses pension is 50% of what the members pension would have been 
before tax-free cash was taken  so it ends up being more than 50%. I appreciate that Mr C 
now desires Mrs C to have the same income as him on his death. But bearing in mind that some living costs would reduce after Mr C died, the spouses pension would likely ensure 
that her living costs were well catered for. 
Mr C has referred to his sister and niece potentially benefiting from a residual drawdown 
fund, but I wouldnt necessarily expect an adviser to prioritise that over the main objective to 
provide income for him and his wife. Mr C told the adviser in August 2021 he was surprised 
that a lot of financial advisers didnt place much weight on the death benefits. That wont 
universally be the case, particularly in situations of serious ill health with other dependants. 
But I dont see that death benefits provided a strong reason to transfer in this case.
Why was Mr C advised not to transfer  and was that demonstrably poor advice?
There is a subjective element to giving advice of this nature, where an adviser is required to 
look dispassionately at the various competing objectives (and desires, for things like 
flexibility and control) and weigh up whether its in Mr Cs best interests to transfer. I need to 
remind Mr C that the FCAs guidance at COBS 19.1.6 says that Fidelity should only consider 
a transfer to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transferis in the retail clients best interests. So having a somewhat borderline case for 
transferring is unlikely to satisfy this guidance. Although the regulator doesnt use the term  
compelling reasons I think this is what the guidance is getting at  and I dont think Fidelity 
has misdirected itself in its advice by using this term.
I therefore consider that in order to succeed with his complaint, Mr C would need to 
demonstrate that a competent adviser wouldnt have recommended that he remained in the 
DB scheme. I know that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr C, but Im not 
persuaded this can be shown in the circumstances of his case.
Fidelity referred during its analysis to the poor value offered by the CETV  and this has led 
to much debate about the extent to which the stochastic analysis shows there was poor 
value. But this was still only one part  the more numerical part  of Fidelitys analysis. I think 
this overlooks that with his below-medium attitude to risk, combined with the significant part 
of his overall pension provision represented by the DB scheme, many competent advisers in 
my view would not recommend that Mr C transfer. 
A compelling need to access benefits in a different format, or due to serious ill health, wasnt  
present in Mr Cs case. Such were the level of his income demands  which he has now 
increased in his revised objectives  the best way of securely meeting those demands was 
to remain in the DB scheme. In effect, the fact that his wife had already transferred her DB 
pension actually gave Mr and Mrs C the capacity to rely on her pension for the irregular 
expenditure, including the medical operations Mr C referred to. In addition any tax-free cash 
he didnt need from the DB scheme at outset could be added to his savings for this purpose.
Retaining Mr Cs DB pension in place meant that they could afford to take the risks of Mrs 
Cs pot running out  rather than (as Mr C suggests) his wifes pot allowing him to take risks 
with his pension. I dont think a competent adviser would agree with Mr Cs analysis. Mrs Cs 
drawdown pot already exists to be invested  otherwise that would call into question why 
she, too, had previously transferred into that pot from her DB scheme. 
I think Fidelity viewed this the conventional way, in line with industry practice, that Mr and 
Mrs C already had the right mix of income from guaranteed and non-guaranteed sources. 
State pensions alone would not have covered enough of Mr and Mrs Cs income needs. I 
havent been persuaded that Fidelity failed to understand Mr (and Mrs) Cs circumstances, in 
line with the regulators expectations. I think Fidelity just had a different view but a 
nevertheless suitable one, of how their objectives would best be met.Im not going to go into further detail on all the reasons advisers might give for remaining in 
the DB scheme, as their views arent under scrutiny here, and nor is Mr Cs. What Im 
required to assess is whether Fidelity gave demonstrably unsuitable advice, and Im far from 
being persuaded that it did overall. Whilst there could be a fair amount of debate, which Ive 
touched on above, as to what the individual parts of its analysis meant, that would not to my 
mind change the overall outcome Fidelity was entitled to reach. 
I also think Fidelity was open with Mr C about the outcome  it offered a phone call to 
discuss it at the same time as sending the suitability report. I think what Mr C was looking for 
was advance notice of what the outcome would be so he could persuade the adviser (and 
Fidelitys panel of experts) to reach a different outcome, but I cant see that would be 
appropriate. He still had the opportunity to point out what he considered were 
misunderstandings of his objectives, but as Ive discussed above I cant see how these 
would have fundamentally altered the advice  so I couldnt fairly say Fidelity is then 
responsible for the disappointment he felt at the end result.
Fidelity also acted fairly in extending the period it was willing to revisit its advice. Mr C had 
the opportunity to seek a new CETV  and both the CETV value, and the advice, may 
obviously have started to be affected by the recent changing economic situation, involving 
increasing annuity rates but also higher inflation. But Fidelitys extended offer has now 
passed. I cant expect Fidelity to make an open ended offer to always revisit the advice it 
had given with no further charge.
I appreciate that Mr C has been left in a difficult position as he may still wish to transfer  but 
feels the market for advice at what he considers to be a competitive cost, where the adviser 
may still be willing to transfer against advice, has shrunk. Those arent matters for which 
Fidelity can reasonably be held responsible. As Fidelity has said to Mr C, he was aware that 
it might potentially reach this outcome. It appears Mr C preferred to use Fidelity on account 
of cost but Im satisfied he was aware it might reach the same conclusion as his previous 
adviser, and as a result he couldnt transfer to a Fidelity SIPP but would have to look 
elsewhere. That has unfortunately for Mr C just been the outcome of this process, and I have 
no power to assist him further in his efforts to transfer.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award. I appreciate that Mr C may have more 
to say on the conclusions Ive reached, but Ive taken everything that hes said so far into 
account. Now that my decision is final, this marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman 
Services process and I wont be able to comment further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman