DRN-3374869
The complaint
Mr H, through a representative, says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go. A summary of his borrowing follows.
Mr H says the lender failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment and would not
have lent to him had it done so.
The investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She said the lenders checks showed Mr Hs
financial situation wasnt stable, and it was unlikely he would be able to sustainably repay
either loan.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said Mr Hs credit report was on the whole very positive and it
showed that Mr H was able to manage his finances. There was nothing that led it to think
further checks were needed.
It asked for an ombudsman to make a decision on the case and so the complaint was
passed to me. I reached a different conclusion to the investigator and I planned to uphold the
complaint in part, in relation to loan 2. So I issued a provisional decision - an extract follows 
and forms part of this final decision. I asked for both parties to comment or submit additional 
information by 15 March 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loans. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It completed income verification
with a third party to check his minimum income. It adjusted his declared expenditure using
national statistics to ensure it was reasonable. It added a buffer to allow for unplanned
expenses. It then checked Mr Hs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit
commitments at the time of both applications and his credit history. I cant see it asked about
the purpose of the loan 1, loan 2 was to purchase a car. From these checks combined Loans
2 Go concluded Mr H had sufficient disposable income to afford the loans.
I think these checks were proportionate for loan 1, and that the lending decision was fair. But
I think better checks were needed for loan 2, and these would have shown the loan was
most likely not affordable for Mr H. I will explain my findings.
Loan 1
This was Mr Hs first application to Loans 2 Go and the monthly repayments were less than
10% of his verified net income. His credit report showed he wasnt heavily indebted, and he
was up-to-date on all his repayments. So given the term and value of the loan I dont think
Loans 2 Go needed to carry out any more checks, and I think it was right to lend to Mr H.
The investigator found that the credit report showed Mr H was reliant on short-term loans in
the three months prior. But I cant see these loans on the credit check the lender completed.
I can see they were evident on Mr Hs full credit report that he provided to this service.
Consumers often see different results to lenders due to timing issues and the fact not all
lenders report to all the credit refence agencies. But in the circumstances of this loan I dont
think it would have been proportionate for Loans 2 Go to have carried out more
comprehensive checks. And as this is my finding I can only fairly expect it to react to the
information its checks revealed. To be clear, I am not saying Mr H wasnt under financial
pressure at the time of loan 1, rather that the proportionate checks Loans 2 Go carried out
did not reveal this.
It follows I dont think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr H.
Loan 2
Mr H returned to borrow just six months into the 18-month term of loan 1. The credit check
showed his total debt had increased by around 60% and he was still reliant on his overdraft
facility of around £2,000. He had also needed to take out a payday loan in March 2019. So
given the direction of these trends I think Loans 2 Go ought to have carried out further
checks.
I have reviewed Mr Hs bank statements from the three months prior to Mr Hs application. I
am not saying this is exactly what the lender had to do, but it is a way for me to understand
what better checks would most likely have shown. They show Mr H was having problems
managing his money. He used at least six different payday lenders in the 12 weeks prior to
this application. And he was spending an increasing amount of his income on gambling
transactions: by August 2019 this had reached over half of his income. So had Loans 2 Go
carried out better checks I think it would have realised Mr H was struggling financially and it
was unlikely he would be able to sustainably repay loan 2.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr H.
I did not find Loans 2 Go had acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mr H in some other 
way. I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do to put things right.
Mr H said he had no comments to make on the provisional decision. Loans 2 Go did not 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any comments or new evidence in response to my provisional 
decision it follows I have no reason to change the findings or conclusion I set out there. I find 
Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr H, but not loan 1. Putting things right
Loan 2
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that
shouldnt have been provided to him.
So Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from loan 2 and treat all the payments Mr H
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Hs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed for loan 2, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am partially upholding Mr Hs complaint in relation to loan 2. Loans 2 Go Limited must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman