DRN-3157130
The complaint
Miss B has complained about her motorbike insurance broker, Carole Nash Insurance 
Consultants Ltd as she feels it caused her to incur additional charges when she purchased a 
new bike and changed her policy.
What happened
Miss B called Carole Nash as she had purchased a new motorbike and wanted to change 
her cover. Carol Nash said it could try and amend the cover she had  but that might be 
pricey. It said a better option might be to find another policy, which it could quote her for. 
Miss B agreed but wasnt happy with the quote Carole Nash then provided. She said shed 
think about her option to cancel the policy or leave it in place until it expired at renewal in 
November 2019. That day she purchased an alternate policy from another provider for her 
new bike.
Miss B told her new insurer that she had two years no claims bonus. The insurer wanted 
proof of this. Miss B called Carole Nash to ask it for proof, telling the advisor she technically 
has two years no claims. The advisor noted the policy with it didnt renew until November 
and that it only had 1 years no claims logged for her previously. But said if she sent proof of 
a previous bonus, it would look to confirm the two years the new insurer needed to see. The 
old policy for the old bike was cancelled. 
Later Miss B chased the confirmation from Carole Nash of the two years bonus. Carole Nash 
said it had been mistaken to advise Miss B it could give her that. Miss B complained that 
shed only been happy to cancel for a fee in order to gain her no claims bonus  she was 
unhappy that shed now not only had to pay a fee but also extra premium, because she 
could only show one years bonus, to her new insurer. Miss B said if shed been advised 
correctly shed have kept the old policy in place and later used the bonus accrued, which 
would have saved her money. Carole Nash accepted it had given Miss B poor advice and 
offered £100 compensation. But it didnt think it had caused Miss B to incur extra costs, so it 
wasnt minded to pay her anything more. Whilst it tried to reinstate the old policy for her, the 
insurer wouldnt agree to do that. Miss B complained to us.
Our investigator upheld the complaint he felt Miss B would have done something else if 
shed been given correct advice. So he said Carole Nash should pay Miss B the extra cost 
the new insurer had charged her when it had re-quoted for her cover based on just one 
years no claims bonus.
Carole Nash said it didnt agree with the outcome. It acknowledged it had given Miss B poor 
advice  but emphasized that this had only occurred after Miss B had given incorrect 
information to her new insurer. Carole Nash said by the time she spoke to it about the no 
claims bonus there were always going to be extra costs for Miss B to deal with. The 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
I was also inclined to uphold this complaint. But my reason for doing so was different to that 
of our investigator. And I felt that, in addition to Carole Nash paying Miss B £100 for the 
extra premium I felt it had caused her to incur, it should pay a total of £500 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. So I issued a provisional decision, which both parties have 
since replied to, accepting my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Miss B first spoke to Carole Nash on 8 August 2020 about insuring her new bike. And I think 
its actually during this very first call that Carol Nash failed Miss B. 
When Miss B spoke to Carol Nash she was on her way to collect her new bike and was 
seeking to sort her insurance out on the way there, so she could ride the motorbike home. 
Miss B initially wanted to keep the existing policy and just transfer it. But Carole Nashs 
representative said that would mean shed have to pay extra now  for example £400  
and for a whole years cover again in just a few months time. The advisor put emphasis on 
the fact that any price given by the current insurer now couldnt be negotiated. Having 
listened carefully to the call I think he effectively recommends (without actually checking 
what the price for Miss B would be) that her best option is to look for a whole new policy for 
the year. In doing that he doesnt seem to give any thought to Miss Bs position in respect of 
no claims. And I think he should have known that getting a new quote part way through a 
year was always likely to be more expensive than waiting just a couple of months so a 
further full year of no claims could be taken into account. Thats because to be entitled to an 
extra years no claims bonus the policyholder will have to complete a full year of cover 
without making a claim. But Miss Bs policy for her original bike had only been in place via 
Carol Nash for nine months. As Carole Nashs representative was advising Miss B what was 
best for her to do, to do that properly and fully I think he should have a) checked what the 
price to transfer the cover would actually be, and b) made sure Miss B knew that arranging a 
new policy now would mean shed lose the nine months of no claims shed accrued during 
the year. I think Miss B was put in a position of choosing to end one policy and take out 
another because of poor and/or incomplete advice from Carole Nashs representative during 
this call.
Because Miss B was advised to take a new policy, Carole Nash quoted for her, the sum was 
unattractive to Miss B and she arranged cover elsewhere. She told the new insurer she had 
two years no claims bonus. Thats because she mistakenly thought that having nearly a year 
with Cariole Nash was enough to count for a whole year. She also didnt realise that she 
couldnt use her original year (from the previous provider) because that had been applied to 
the Carol Nash policy for the old bike and that policy was still in place. And a no claims 
bonus can only one used on one bike at a time. Meaning the original year couldnt be used 
for a policy for her new bike also. But I think that Miss B wouldnt have been in the position of 
providing incorrect information to a prospective new insurer if Carole Nashs representative, 
having opted to take on the role of advising Miss B what to do, had advised her properly so 
she could make a fully informed decision about what was best for her. 
I say that as Carol Nash has provided some figures to me which it thinks Miss Bs insurer for 
her old bike would have charged to transfer the cover to her new bike for the remainder of 
the policy year. I bear in mind that this is an estimate and the insurer itself has been unable 
to provide any detail. But, given the prices we do know about, I think the sum estimated by 
Carol Nash is the best indication we have about what costs Miss B would likely have faced 
had she been given the option of transferring the cover. Considering everything, I think 
Miss B would likely have transferred the cover had she had an opportunity to do so. Thats because Carol Nash says that it would likely have cost Miss B about £200 to change 
the cover for the remaining three months until renewal. That seems a lot  as Miss B had 
paid £300 for the whole year with Carol Nash already. But I bear in mind that Miss B was 
moving to a much more powerful bike and her new insurer did end up charging her about 
£600 for the whole year for that new bike. So I dont think the transfer cost would likely have 
put Miss B off in the way that the quote Carol Nash gave her (£932.60) for a whole year of 
cover for the new bike did. Or in the way the representatives emphasis on an example sum 
of £400 to transfer the cover did. And I know the issue of no claims bonus was particularly 
important to Miss B as well. So the correct position on that would have weighed heavily into 
her decision to stay with the current policy  meaning that the lowest price for cover wasnt 
really the main driver for the choice Miss B needed to make.
Im also aware that Miss B had done some shopping around at the time of and/or just after 
her first call with Carol Nash on the day she collected her new bike. So I know she was 
aware of the price she could get new cover for. And, had she known about the correct no 
claims position, I think shed have discovered that taking a new policy in August would cost 
her about £600, whilst waiting until November (having transferred her old policy in the 
meantime), would mean the cost of the new policy would reduce  with two years no claims 
reasonably applying at that time. Miss B may not then have known the figures that we do 
now. However, I think shed likely have been able to determine that she wouldnt pay much 
more to transfer her existing cover and then buy a years cover in November, than she would 
if she cancelled her old cover only to commence a new years policy in August. To apply the 
figures we know now in order to provide a clear example: Miss B would have been looking at 
£700 for 15 months of cover whilst maintaining the no claims bonus; or £600 for 12 months 
of cover whilst having lost nine months of bonus (that can never be re-attained). So I think 
shed have seen that transferring the cover was a much better long-term proposition. And 
I can see no good reason why Miss B wouldve been unlikely to choose the better long-term 
position. As such I think Carol Nashs failure did cause Miss B to end up in a less favourable 
position than she should have been in. So Ive thought about what Carol Nash should do 
now to put things right.
Miss B paid £600 for twelve months of cover when, if shed waited until November that would 
likely have cost her only £500. So I think Carole Nash should reimburse her £100, plus 
interest* from 26 August 2020 until settlement is made. The 26 August being the date she 
paid the additional sum to her new insurer.  
Miss B can never get back the nine-months of no claims bonus, but this type of loss doesnt 
come with a direct financial loss, or at least not one that can be quantified. Thats because 
the entitlement just really moves along. But I can take the fact of the loss into account when 
awarding distress and inconvenience to Miss B. So thats what Ive done. Im not sure if 
Carol Nash paid Miss B the £100 compensation it offered her. But I think total compensation 
of £500 is fairly and reasonably due in the circumstances here. If £100 has been paid 
already, only £400 will now need to be paid.
As both parties have accepted my findings, Ive no need to change or add to them. My 
provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Carole Nash to pay Miss B:
£100 as reimbursement of extra premium plus interest* from 26 August 2020 until 
settlement is made.£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. This is a total amount, if £100 has 
been paid already, only £400 will now need to be paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Carol Nash considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest due to Miss B, it should tell her how much its taken off. 
It should also give Miss B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman