DRN-4235848
The complaint
Mr F and Miss G complain One Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair value for their car 
following an accident which led to it being written off. 
For ease, Ive referred mostly to Miss G, the main policy holder, throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Miss G insured her car with One Insurance under a motor insurance policy. Miss G was the 
policy holder and Mr G a named driver under the policy. 
In August 2022, Miss G was unfortunately involved in a car accident. One Insurance 
subsequently deemed the car to be a total loss and offered £13,710 to settle the claim, less 
Miss Gs excess of £450. 
Miss G wasnt happy, so she complained about the repairs not being done at a main dealer 
therefore affecting the warranty, the valuation and service provided. One Insurance did 
uphold Miss Gs complaint about the valuation and used additional guides to assess the 
market value which should be paid to her for the car. As a result of this, if offered Miss G 
£14,663 for her car as well as £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. It didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint about the repairs not being carried out at a main 
dealer. It explained since the car had been written off, there were no repairs to be carried out 
and no warranty to be breached. 
Miss G brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. An Investigator at 
this service looked into matters and thought the offer made by One Insurance was fair as all 
the motor trade guides valued the vehicle at a lower amount. They also noted:
- One Insurance gave Miss G the option to keep the damage car and repair it herself 
but Miss G declined. 
- Miss Gs car didnt need to be sent to a main dealers garage for an assessment of 
repairs nor valuation. This is because motor trade guides were used to set the value 
offered to her. 
- One Insurance was entitled to charge Miss Gs outstanding premium. 
Miss G didnt agree and asked questions about a fuel card, tow bar and roof rack left with 
the car. She also felt the Investigator had acted unprofessionally and made statements 
which show a conflict of interest. The Investigator directed Miss G to One Insurance 
regarding the items she wanted recovered from the car in the first instance. In relation to the 
other points made, these didnt change the Investigators view so the matter was then passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must explain to Mr F and Miss G I consider the Investigator reached a fair 
outcome in this matter. So, I wont be asking One Insurance to do anything more than it has 
agreed to do to put things right. Ill explain why.
Valuation
It may be helpful to explain that my role isnt to give an exact value of Miss Gs car. Instead, 
my role is to decide whether One Insurance has applied the policy terms and conditions 
when reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think it has. Ill explain why below. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle. The policy defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your car, if this is possible, with one of a similar make, model 
and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of
your car, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
In assessing the market value of your vehicle, we may refer to insurance industry 
recognised guides of vehicle values as well as searching for available vehicles being 
offered for sale to the general public. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Gs policy also say: 
If your car is a total loss, your car will become our propertyWe will deduct any 
outstanding premium owed to us from any claims settlement we make to you as we 
will have met our responsibilities under the policy.
This means One Insurance will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident 
which, here, it has ultimately determined to be £14,663. One Insurance referred to the trade 
guides to obtain a value for the car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. 
We would use a similar approach and the same trade guides to help decide if a settlement 
offer is fair when valuing second-hand vehicles. And we find these guides to be persuasive 
evidence of market value, mostly because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
of likely sales figures. 
I can see the motor trade guides used by One Insurance were for cars of the same make, 
model, age, condition and mileage as Miss Gs at the date of its loss. These checks found 
One Insurances offer was above all of the valuations provided by the guides. Whilst I 
appreciate Miss G says the car will cost £20,000 to replace, I am not persuaded this impacts 
the market value One Insurance is required to offer in this matter. This is because I havent seen any evidence to suggest the offer made isnt a fair one. I appreciate Miss G refers to 
adverts on a main dealers website, but Ive seen other adverts for similar vehicles, all of 
which are below the amount offered to Miss G. So, I dont consider One Insurance acted 
unfairly in reaching the value it has. 
In summary, Im satisfied One Insurances offer for the market value of Miss Gs car at the 
time directly before the loss was fair according to the terms and conditions of the policy and 
our approach to complaints like this. It follows that I dont require One Insurance to increase 
this.
Main dealer 
We wouldnt generally consider it fair to require an insurer to have the repairs done by the 
main dealer. And I note the terms of Miss Gs policy specifically allow the insurer to use parts 
which arent made by the manufacturer or have been recycled when carrying out repairs and 
to use repairers from One Insurances panel of approved repairer. 
The policy sets out how the market value will be calculated, and this refers to motor industry 
guides as well as vehicles being offered for sale.
So, Im satisfied One Insurance wasnt required to have any repairs  not the assessment of 
repairs needed - carried out at a main dealership (though no actual repairs were carried out 
here in any event as the car was written off) nor obtain a valuation report from one.
Outstanding premium
I havent seen any evidence Miss G wanted to put a new vehicle on cover within a 
reasonable period of their car being written off. Therefore, I dont consider it unreasonable 
for One Insurance to cancel the policy and require the outstanding premiums to be paid or to 
deduct these from the overall settlement figure paid to Miss G. 
I note Miss Gs policy has a specific term which says theres no refund due on cancellation if 
the insurer has paid a claim. I consider this to be a reasonable term and havent seen any 
evidence it wouldnt be fair for One Insurance to keep the premium in this particular matter. 
However, looking ahead to the time the claim is settled, and noting correspondence from 
One Insurance which suggests the matter may go to court, it may be this will need to be 
reconsidered. I say this because, if One Insurance recovers its outlay on the claim from the 
third partys insurer, wed likely consider it reasonable for One Insurance to allow a pro rata 
refund of the premium to Miss G, less any reasonable fees.
Service
A previous complaint with our service considered the service given to Miss G up to 28 
October 2022 and so I havent considered that period. Ive also not considered any time after 
the last final response letter dated 19 April 2023 was issued. 
Having done so, its my view the service given by One Insurance wasnt quite at the level a 
consumer acting reasonably would be entitled to expect. However, I also note there were 
times Miss G asked One Insurance to stop progressing the claim and times when One 
Insurance was waiting for information or instructions from Miss G  for example, whether the 
valuation for the car was agreed. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration, its my view the amount of £150 offered in the 
final response letter of 19 April 2023 fairly resolves the complaint raised in relation to the One Insurances service. So, I won't be asking it to do any more than it has already offered to 
do to put matters right.
Uninsured losses
Finally, I note Miss G has spent some time setting out to this service the uninsured losses 
which she says exceeds £130,000. An uninsured loss is a loss that isnt specifically covered 
by the policy including, for example, personal injury, loss of earnings, hire cars and personal 
possessions (that exceed the value of the limits in the policy which here is £200) and the 
excess. 
For consumers not at fault for the accident, they can seek to claim uninsured losses back 
from the third party themselves, or through a motor legal expenses policy. This is subject to 
the usual requirements such as causation and evidence of amount of those losses. I note 
Miss G has contacted solicitors. And Mr F and Miss Gs claim for uninsured losses being 
pursued through solicitors (or directly) isnt something One Insurance is responsible for in 
this matter and so its not something Ive considered. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F and Miss G but this ends what we  in trying to resolve their 
dispute with One Insurance in relation to the final response letters dated 9 January and 19 
April 2023  can do for them. 
Any further issues arising would need to be raised with One Insurance (or the appropriate 
party), setting out the specific issues complained about and giving it an opportunity to 
investigate the complaint in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, 
One Insurance Limited doesnt need to do anything further than it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman