DRN-3201648
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) acted irresponsibly 
by granting him a loan that was unaffordable. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr M took out a loan for £2,000 with Likely Loans. The loan was to be 
repaid over 36 months with the repayments set at £105.64 a month. The APR was 59.9% 
and total amount to be repaid was £3,803.04.
Mr M later complained that Likely loans had lent to him irresponsibly. He said if Likely Loans 
had carried out proper checks, it would have seen that he had a gambling addiction. Likely 
Loans should have been aware he wouldnt be able to pay the loan back without severe 
struggle. He said hed had to take out another loan to clear the one with Likely Loans.
Likely Loans said it had conducted a credit assessment which included reviewing Mr Ms 
credit report. It had also obtained information from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to 
assist with its lending decision. It said it had no obligation to request a bank statement or 
payslip when considering Mr Ms ability to repay. Likely Loans said it felt the checks it had 
carried out were proportionate and the loan repayments were considered affordable from the 
information it had.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought Likely 
Loans should have asked Mr M for information about his housing costs but didnt think it 
would have concluded the lending was unaffordable if it had done so.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think Likely Loans checks were 
sufficient as it hadnt checked his bank statements. He provided copies of his bank 
statements for the two months prior to his loan application which showed a significant 
amount of gambling transactions. Mr M said these showed he was in a cycle of a debilitating 
gambling condition and his finances were out of control. So, his complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Likely Loans to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Likely Loans to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Likely Loans gathered some information from Mr M before approving the loan. It asked him 
about his employment status and income and the purpose of the loan. It says it also 
reviewed Mr Ms credit report and has provided a summary of the data it extracted at the 
time.
On his application, Mr M said he was employed with an annual income of £23,160 and the 
loan purpose was home improvement. Likely Loans verified Mr Ms net monthly income to 
be £1,594. The information it extracted from Mr Ms credit file showed he had total revolving 
credit debt of £1,038 (from credit / store cards) and no other debt.
Likely Loans says it used statistical data to estimate Mr Ms other outgoings. Its provided an 
estimate for living expenditure of £546 as well as an estimate for general expenditure of 
£797. It used each of these in calculations for total expenditure. The highest total 
expenditure figure was £995 a month (this took into account Mr Ms existing credit 
commitments, the general expenditure estimate, repayments for the new loan and a £50 
buffer). This would have left Mr M with around £600 a month disposable income.
Likely Loans says Mr M said he was a tenant when he applied for the loan. I think Likely 
Loans should have asked Mr M for further information about his housing costs before 
approving the loan. 
Mr M says he selected the option of tenant because he was living with his partner who had 
a sole mortgage in her name. Mr M says he paid around £600 to £700 a month to her to 
cover his share of the mortgage, rates, bills, food and amenities. 
If Likely Loans had asked Mr M for further information about his housing costs, I dont think it 
would have made a difference to its lending decision. The amount Mr M has told us he was 
giving his partner is similar to Likely Loans estimate for general expenditure. I appreciate 
Mr M will also have had other essential outgoings (travel, clothing etc) but he appeared to 
have sufficient disposable income to cover these.
According to Mr Ms credit file, his existing credit commitments were low. I also havent seen 
anything that I think should have prompted Likely Loans to carry out further checks (for 
example recent defaults or county court judgments).
I can see from the bank statements Mr M has sent us that hed taken out a loan with another 
lender, that didnt appear on his credit file. I can also see multiple gambling transactions. But 
Likely Loans could only make its decision based on information it had available at the time. 
And I dont think proportionate checks would have extended to Likely Loans asking Mr M to 
provide it with his bank statements. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M, who has struggled with managing his 
finances and his mental health. But I dont think it would be fair to say Likely Loans should 
reasonably have been aware Mr Ms difficulties when it granted him the loan. So, I dont 
think Likely Loans decision to lend to him was irresponsible.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman