DRN-2205420
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc has locked him out of his account, and wont unlock it 
until he provides ID. 
What happened
Mr R said that TSB had changed his account, and had frozen it because of this. He said TSB 
was now asking him for ID before it would unlock the account, but he didnt have what it was 
asking for. 
Mr R didnt think he should have to supply ID because TSB had made a change, when he 
hadnt asked it to. Mr R said that he couldnt transfer his money to a higher interest account 
He initially said hed made two trips under lockdown to the bank, neither of which had 
successfully unblocked the account, but then later said he had no recollection of a second 
trip, and he must have just talked to TSB on the phone. 
Mr R wanted TSB to unblock his account, compensate him for loss of interest at £25, and 
pay him £200 for freezing his account and the inconvenience it had caused. 
TSB said it had written to Mr R to tell him that his account type was changing, but before he 
could use the new account, he would have to come into a branch with ID. TSB said it had 
explained to Mr R that he would need two documents, one from a list of proof of identity and 
one from a list of proof of address. Mr R came into the branch, but he only had one of the 
requested documents. TSB said that Mr R told it that as an existing customer, he shouldnt 
have to provide ID, and he wanted the process to be changed. 
TSB said it wouldnt unblock Mr Rs account without ID. It didnt think it had made a mistake. 
TSB would now accept a different proof of address if Mr R didnt have the documents it had 
asked for, and it set out an additional document that it would accept. It said Mr R had just 
refused to provide anything else. 
Mr R said TSB hadnt offered this additional flexibility at the time, and he had other proof of 
address with him at the time, that just wasnt on TSBs list. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said TSB had told Mr R that 
his account type was going to change, and the change wouldnt be automatic. So TSB had 
explained that Mr R would need to take ID into a branch. TSB included a link telling Mr R 
what ID it would accept. 
Our investigator said that the ID documents Mr R took didnt meet TSBs criteria. So he 
didnt think TSB had made a mistake by not accepting this. Our investigator said that TSB 
would accept a letter from HMRC if it was dated in the last 12 months, so if Mr R didnt have 
such a letter, he could ask HMRC to write to him. Or TSB has now offered an alternative way 
for Mr R to prove his address. Our investigator thought it was seeking to be flexible to 
resolve this issue for Mr R. 
Our investigator understood that Mr R had additional ID with him at the time, but he said its 
not for us to tell TSB what id it should accept. Its not unreasonable for TSB to want up to 
date ID. 
Our investigator knew that Mr R didnt see the need for ID at all, but his account was 
changing from one which had initially been opened by someone else, so that person 
wouldve produced ID when the account was opened. Our investigator said that as Mr R was 
now assuming responsibility for the account, it seemed sensible to have his ID at this point. 
Our investigator said TSB didnt have to do any more. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said that because his account had been frozen, he hadnt been able to 
transfer funds to a higher interest account. He wanted us to arrange for his account to be 
unfrozen, so he could open an account elsewhere and transfer the money out of TSB. He 
suggested TSB could send a recorded delivery letter to his house, and he could sign for it, 
proving he lived there. Or he suggested that we should write to him, and that we arrange for 
TSB to accept this as proof of address. 
Our investigator arranged to send Mr R a letter, but he said we couldnt require TSB to 
accept this as proof of his address. Because Mr R hadnt agreed with our investigator, the 
case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
TSB wrote to Mr R to tell him his account type was changing. Its required by law to change 
this account in this way, so I dont think TSB did anything wrong when it did that. 
And it explained to him that, in order to use his new account, he would have to attend a 
branch and show some ID. As this account was originally opened by someone else, I think 
its reasonable for TSB to request ID at this stage. TSB explained to Mr R that he couldnt 
use the account until he did this, and it told him what it would accept as ID.
Mr R went into a branch. Although Mr R had several documents which had his address on 
when he went to the branch, none of these were from TSBs list. TSB wouldnt accept the 
documents he had. 
TSB says that Mr R and the person accompanying him said they didnt think this was 
reasonable, and werent willing to provide other proof of address. I understand that it must 
have been frustrating, when Mr R did have typewritten official correspondence, to be told 
that this wouldnt be accepted. And I also understand that Mr R wont have a number of the 
documents that TSB would accept. But I think TSB is seeking to manage risk in asking for 
ID, and as part of that, it has an existing process for its customers to prove their address. Its 
common practice for banks to ask for particular documents to prove ID, and its not unusual 
for an account to be blocked until someone does that. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
TSB to leave the block on Mr Rs account, when he wasnt able to produce anything on the 
second list. 
I know Mr R wont have easy access to some of the documents TSB would like. TSB said it 
will now accept an additional document. Mr R has said that would inconvenience the person he would have to ask, so I think he may be reluctant to do this. But I do still think that Mr R is 
able to get at least one of the documents on the list. He could ask HMRC to write to him, as 
our investigator suggested. HMRC will provide written proof of an NI number on request. 
Mr R said that TSB told him he had to go into a branch immediately. I cant see that it used 
this wording in the letters it wrote to him, but I accept that it said Mr R wouldnt be able to 
use his account until he had been to a branch, so I think the effect is likely to be the same. 
Mr R also said that he didnt think TSB shouldve asked him to go into a branch during 
lockdown. But TSB has told us that Mr R had deposited cash in late April. It has no record of 
Mr R offering any ID on that visit, and Mr R now says he doesnt recall doing so. Mr R then 
made a second trip to produce ID in June. Because TSB had written to Mr R in the first half 
of April to let him know how to unlock his account, it seems likely that these two trips could 
have been combined. 
I know that Mr R wants to spend some of the money in his locked account, and to invest the 
rest to earn more interest. He cant do either until this account is unlocked. But I think TSB 
has been clear on what he needs to do, and Ive explained why I think its always been 
possible for him to do that. I dont think TSB has been unreasonable or unfair, or that its 
TSBs fault that Mr R remains locked out of his account. So I dont think TSB has to pay him 
missed interest, or compensation.
Ive considered this complaint carefully, and I dont think TSB has to do more than it has 
done already. I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman