DRN-3161334
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a Guaranteed Capital Account (GCA). 
Hes unhappy that he wasnt given sufficient information about the investment to understand 
how it worked  and as an inexperienced investor he wouldnt have agreed to take it out if he 
had better information. 
What happened
In April 2006, HSBC advised Mr P to invest £50,000 into a GCA. The account was 
essentially two parts, the income part (Income Fifty) and capital growth part (Capital Growth 
Fifty). Each part had £25,000 invested into it. The Income Fifty was designed to provide 
regular income and the Capital Growth Fifty was aiming to achieve capital growth. The 
investment matured in May 2011 repaying around £54,000 in capital after tax. 
At the time of advice Mr P had recently received an inheritance and was contacted by HSBC 
to discuss the cash balance he had in his current account. HSBC has provided a fact find 
that detailed his circumstances at the time. He is recorded as owning a property, which was 
mortgage free. He had no significant liabilities or debt. He was employed and had disposable 
income each month. He had no existing savings or investments but did have available cash 
in a current account of approximately £92,000.
 
In May 2018, a representative on Mr Ps behalf, complained to HSBC as they believed the 
investment was mis-sold. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint and said the product was 
suitable for Mr Ps needs and risk profile and he was provided with information on how it 
worked. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021  I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint. 
This is what I said:
At the time of the advice Mr Ps circumstances suggest he was in a position to invest. He 
had no significant debts, sufficient income and although he had never invested before he did 
have a reasonable amount of money in a deposit account with HSBC. His representatives 
say the money came from the sale of a property he inherited when his mother passed away. 
This is supported by a note in the fact find to say he had sold a second property. 
The investment and savings section of the fact find says Mr P wants to tie up to avoid 
spending the funds he had on deposit. It is recorded that he was concerned about low 
interest rates and wanted to consider his options. The fact find also says that he didnt 
required income and was looking for growth with his savings. His attitude to risk is note as 
Willing to take a low risk rather than simply leaving it in cash deposit to have the potential to 
receive a better return than cash deposits alone can provide or protect its value by 
countering the effect of inflation over time and understand the risk of capital loss.
So, it seems that Mr P did want to invest his money rather than leave it in his deposit 
account. And his aims at the time were to tie up some of his funds over a medium term - to 
produce capital growth and wanting to beat inflation. It doesnt appear he was seeking a 
stock market linked investment or prepared to take risks with his money. 
In order to try and achieve this objective Mr P was recommended the GCA. This was a 
capital guaranteed product but as explained above it had two equal parts. The Income Fifty 
element paid enhanced interest linked to a percentage above the Bank of England base rate 
and the Capital Growth Fifty element that could produce returns depending on the 
performance of the FTSE 100 index. On the face of it, given that Mr P was trying to do better 
than his deposit account without risking his capital, this seems a credible option in the 
circumstances. 
But I think when examined in a bit more detail it seems less likely that this is something Mr P 
wouldve wanted to proceed with had he fully understood what other options were available 
to him. I note that the fact find makes a very brief mention of a list of other investments 
considered. But this reads as a standard list of product types  including things like OIECS 
and stakeholder pensions. So, I dont think this indicates the advisor provided Mr P with a 
real consideration of the other suitable alternatives that would meet his needs and aims. 
There is a reference in the recommendation letter that Mr P was aware the adviser wouldnt 
normally recommend investing more than £20,000 in one fund to achieve greater 
diversification - but considering all available options Mr P confirmed he was prepared to 
proceed on the basis shown. This implies there might have been something else suitable for 
Mr P. But theres no real evidence of a discussion around the benefits of all the available 
options  including proper consideration being given to fixed rate bonds, which would have 
guaranteed Mr P his capital and guaranteed a relatively healthy return on his money to 
reduce the impact of inflation. Indeed, HSBC says at the time, its three-year fixed rate bond 
was paying a rate of 4.55% gross per annum. 
Im not persuaded the product that was recommended was wholly suitable for the needs and 
aims identified. Firstly, it was a product that was designed to provide both income and capital 
growth. Mr P had no need for income  and 50% of the product was designed for this. While 
I accept he could roll up the interest, its not clear why a product that was designed for 
income was considered ahead of other products which could have better satisfied Mr Ps 
clear aim for capital growth only. 
I dont think the Capital Growth Fifty element of the product would have been particularly 
easy to understand for an unsophisticated investor like Mr P. As the value of the indices can 
go up or down, there's a clear risk that, despite holding the investment for five years, you 
may get little or no return at the end of it.
As mentioned above, the fact find provides limited statements about Mr Ps attitude to risk, 
but I cant see that it was established that a stock market linked investment of this type fitted 
his needs and aims. The sales paperwork doesnt set out how much the real value of 
Capital Growth Fifty part could fall by if Mr P failed to receive any return via the FTSE-linked 
formula. With interest rates around 4.5% at the time of the advice, this could easily have 
meant Mr P could see the real value of this money fall significantly by the end of the five-
year term. The result of this, means there was a significant risk to the value of Mr Ps money 
 and his ability to achieve his aim of reducing the impact of inflation. But Ive seen nothing 
to indicate the advisor pointed this out. If everything had been explained to Mr P  including 
alternative guaranteed returns through products like fixed rate bonds, I think this would have 
made him question the appeal of risking a guaranteed return for what appeared to be very 
modest returns in the Capital Growth Fifty according to the illustrations provided by HSBC. 
Also, as Mr P wasnt an experienced investor, I dont think its likely he would have had a 
detailed knowledge of the FTSEs recent track record - including the fairly recent dips it 
experienced in the years before he invested. So, without the adviser explaining the pitfalls and the potential impact on his returns of poor FTSE growth, I dont think Mr P would have 
realised the risk he was taking of getting no return on half his invested money after five 
years. I havent seen anything in the fact find or suitability letter to suggest this risk was 
explained to Mr P. 
It follows that I dont think Mr P would have invested in this product if he was given suitable 
advice. So, I need to consider how to put Mr P back in the position he would have been but 
for the advice. I accept, he would not have benefitted from the higher interest on the Income 
Fifty element without also investing in the FTSE-related element of the product. So any loss 
calculation needs to be based on the overall return he received on the full £50,000 invested. 
Given this, I propose that redress should be based on HSBCs three-year fixed-rate bonds 
offering 4.55% per annum and then using the Bank of England average bond rate after this 
date. This is because I am satisfied that Mr Ps objective was to find a product with higher 
returns than a standard savings account and he was happy to lock away this amount of his 
available capital for at least three years (and in practice, five years).
HSBC responded to my provisional decision  and provided further comments for me to 
consider. In summary it said:
The adviser recorded that Mr P was looking to invest his money for capital growth, in a low 
risk environment and was happy to invest for the recommended term of five years. Based on 
this it would then be unlikely the advisor would then recommend a three-year fixed rate 
deposit bond.
It is noted in the fact find that Mr P was willing to take a low risk than rather simply leaving it 
in cash deposits to have the potential to receive a better return. This indicates 
Mr P wanted to invest and did not wish to consider cash deposits, whether this was in the 
form of accessible deposit accounts or fixed deposits. Also, given that Mr P was a tax payer, 
he would not have benefitted from a gross rate the fixed rate provided of 4.55%, but rather 
the lower rate of 3.64%.
There would have been other deposit accounts available, not just the fixed rate that has 
been referred to for the redress calculation. To list all of them and make a comparison along 
with any other investments like OEICs seems almost like a process of elimination, which 
then in turn doesnt make sense for an advisor to understand what a customers aims or 
objectives might be. 
The GCA had the option to have the income reinvested, which is no different to a fixed rate 
deposit bond essentially, given that it can also provide a monthly income, or you can elect to 
have this paid annually. Also, if Mr P had invested his £50,000 into the three-year fixed rate 
bond, he would have been in a position of holding around £92,000 all on deposit, which itself 
poses a risk as there is then no diversification.
The reason Mr P received a pretty low return from the Income Fifty element was because 
interest rates started at 4.5% and ended up at 0.5%. However, he was still receiving 0.5% 
over the Bank of England Base Rate on 50% of his money.
In respect of the comments about not explaining how much the real value of the Capital
Growth Fifty part could fall if the FTSE performed poorly - there is only so much an advisor 
notes in the fact find. Mr P was also provided with documentation which would include the 
key features and the product brochures. It is documented in the fact find that Mr P agreed 
that he had seen these, and that they had been explained. Mr P was also sent a cancellation 
notice giving him 14 days to cancel the investment if he felt that he had any uncertainty as to 
whether the investment recommendation was right for his circumstances at the time. The fact sheet which Mr P would have been provided, clearly demonstrates that if there is no 
growth, or the index fell, that he would only get a return of his capital.
Mr P didnt provide any further submission for me to consider and his representatives 
confirmed he was happy with the proposed redress methodology. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered the further comments and arguments HSBC has provided, but they havent 
led me to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Ive considered the comments HSBC has made about Mr Ps recorded aims and 
objectives. While the sales documents say he was looking to save for at least five years, I 
dont think this means he was looking for only products that precisely matched this term. 
More likely this means that he was looking to save for the medium term  and there are 
different ways in which this could be achieved.  I also accept Mr P is recorded as wanting to 
take a low level of risk and wanted a better return than cash deposits. But I dont find this 
means he wanted to avoid fixed deposits, or they would be unsuitable for him  as this type 
of investment had the potential meet his aim of countering the effect of inflation. 
HSBC argue there is only so much an advisor notes in the fact find in response to my finding 
that it didnt explained how much the real value of the Capital Growth Fifty part could fall if 
the FTSE performed poorly. It has referred to the product documentation  including the 
illustration in the fact sheet - that would have been provided to Mr P. Havent reviewed the 
information HSBC has sent, I still dont think this would have alerted Mr P to the risk he was 
taking compared to investing in an alternative fixed rate product that guarantees returns. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Mr P was an experienced investor and, in my view, was unlikely to 
have a detailed knowledge of the FTSEs recent track record. So, I dont think the sales 
information HSBC provides is persuasive in showing the real value risk was made clear to 
Mr P. And I think if it was, he would have decided not to invest in the product. 
 
I have noted the all of the other comments made by HSBC  including those the reasons for 
low returns on the Income Fifty element of the account. And also, the information about the 
GCAs ability to reinvest income. These points are understood but dont change my thinking 
on the overall suitability of the advice. 
HSBC has made several comments relating to the appropriateness of using the three-year 
fixed bond as an alternative investment for Mr Ps saving  including the impact of his tax 
status on returns and diversification. Ive also noted HSBCs comments about other deposit 
options being available and listing them all would be like a process of elimination rather than 
the advisor understanding a customers aims and objectives. I cant say precisely what Mr P 
would have invested his money in - but I have found the GCA was unsuitable for his needs 
and circumstances. In deciding the fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr P, I need to 
consider what I think is a reasonable assumption to make. For the reasons Ive explained, I 
think the using the three-year bond and the average rate from fixed rate bonds after that is a 
fair way to compare Mr Ps position but for the unsuitable advice. 
Having re-considered all of the submissions again, for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision and those above  I think the recommendation made to Mr P by HSBC 
in 2006 was unsuitable for his needs and circumstances at the time. 
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
P's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should HSBC do? 
To compensate Mr P fairly, HSBC must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
HSBC should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
HSBC three-year 
fixed rate bond at 
4.55%Date of 
investmentThird 
anniversary 
date of maturity Guaranteed 
Capital 
AccountMatured BoE average rate 
from fixed rate bonds 
of 12 months 
maturityThird 
anniversaryDate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, HSBC should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital. 
The HSBC three-year fixed rate bond was an available alternative product. This and 
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr P would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital. 
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. My decision is that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman