DRN-3479503
The complaint
Mr F complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr F was given two loans by ELL, in July 2017 and in April 2019. He first borrowed £1,000 
that he agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. As he neared the end of that loan, Mr F 
refinanced his borrowing by taking a new loan of £1,500. He agreed to repay that loan in 
18 monthly instalments. Mr F repaid the loan in June 2020.
Mr Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the results 
of ELLs checks should have led the lender to conclude that Mr F would be unlikely to be 
able to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner. So he didnt think either loan 
should have been agreed and he asked ELL to put things right for Mr F.
ELL didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr F accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Fs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Mr F required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr F undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr F.
ELL gathered some information from Mr F before it agreed each loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his housing costs. It then used some industry statistical data to estimate 
the remainder of Mr Fs normal expenditure. It checked Mr Fs credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past. And it 
reviewed copies of Mr Fs bank statements to validate what he had said about his finances
Each time, Mr F was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for periods of between 12 and 18 months. So I think it was right 
that ELL wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Fs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that ELLs checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.
The credit check results that ELL received before it agreed the first loan showed that Mr F 
had faced serious problems managing his money in the past. And those problems had 
continued to be present relatively recently. Mr F had defaulted on at least three accounts the 
previous year. And ELLs checks also showed that he had three county court judgements 
against him for unpaid debts  the most recent of which had been issued less than six 
months before.
So I think ELL should have had some very strong concerns about Mr Fs ability to meet any 
new loan repayments in a sustainable manner. And I think those concerns should have been 
amplified when ELL looked at Mr Fs bank statements.
It is true that Mr Fs bank statements didnt show any signs of uncontrolled expenditure such 
as excessive amounts of gambling. But they did show the chaotic nature of Mr Fs finances. 
He was borrowing, and repaying, significant sums to and from friends on a regular basis. 
And they showed that a number of previous repayments to other lenders had been returned 
unpaid.I appreciate that Mr F explained that many of the financial problems hed faced were as a 
result of a period of unemployment  and that he was now started in a new job. But I think 
that period of employment was too short for ELL to have any confidence that the problems 
Mr F had faced in managing his finances were now behind him. I dont think it was 
reasonable for ELL to conclude that it would be likely Mr F would be able to repay this loan 
in a sustainable manner.
It seems that Mr F had faced some problems repaying his first loan in line with his credit 
agreement. But, by the start of 2019 he seems to have got his repayments largely back on 
track. That might have given ELL some confidence that his finances had returned to a more 
stable footing. So it might not have been of concern that Mr F asked to borrow again shortly 
before hed finished repaying the first loan (and so used some of the proceeds of the second 
loan to complete that repayment.)
But the credit check results showed that Mr F had continued to face additional problems 
managing his money during the term of the first loan. The results showed that Mr F had 
defaulted on two loan accounts around a year before  at the same time he was facing 
problems making his repayments to ELL. And the county court judgement that hed received 
in early 2017 remained unsatisfied. So I dont think that ELL could reasonably conclude that 
Mr F would be able to repay the second loan in a sustainable manner either.
So, in summary, I dont think the results of the checks that ELL did should have led to the 
lender agreeing to give either loan to Mr F. It follows that I think the complaint should be 
upheld and that ELL needs to pay Mr F some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed to lend to Mr F in July 2017 or April 2019. So ELL 
should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr F paid on the loans 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr F 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman