DRN-3504870
The complaint
Mr D complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited mishandled his motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to One Call, I include employees and others insofar as I hold One Call
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
One Call acted as an intermediary between Mr D and his insurers. For the year from
February 2018, Mr D took out a motor insurance policy through One Call.
The insurance was renewed for the years from February 2019 and February 2020.
Mr D says that in about October 2020, his vehicle suffered incidents of a breakdown and a
theft of its catalytic converter.
In February 2021, One Call automatically renewed the insurance again and took payment.
Mr D hadnt wanted to renew with One Call.
Mr D wrote a letter to One Call dated 10 February 2021. The letter complained to One Call
that it had been uncontactable in October 2020 and at the time of renewal.
In late April 2021, Mr D got his bank to do a chargeback of his payment.
One Call cancelled the policy from 7 May 2021. One Call asked Mr D to pay the following:
Charge for time on cover £101.19
Broker fee £  30.00
Cancellation fee £  55.99
Total £187.18
By a letter dated late May 2021, Mr D complained to One Call about the renewal, about his
difficulty in contacting One Call and about its claim that he owed a balance.
By a final response dated 18 June 2021, One Call offered to waive its charges totalling
£89.99. It said that it also would backdate the cancellation to 3 February 2021 and cancel
any balance if Mr D provided evidence that he had been insured elsewhere from that date.
Unhappy with that, Mr D brought his complaint to us without delay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
One Calls final response was a fair way to resolve the complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D    
and to One Call on 27 April 2022. I summarise my findings:
The policy had been live from renewal in February 2021 to cancellation in May 2021. 
So I didnt find that One Call treated Mr D unfairly by asking him to pay for time on 
cover and fees. 
Subject to any further information from Mr D or from One Call, my provisional decision was 
not to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr D disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
One Call is at fault and compensation must be paid for their negligence and
irresponsible act.
One Call agreed with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first raise
a complaint with the financial firm and wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before
we can investigate that complaint.
Mr Ds letter dated 10 February 2021 contained complaints that One Call had been
uncontactable by telephone or webchat when his vehicle suffered the incidents in about
October 2020.
One Call says it didnt receive that letter at the time. But I think it received a copy of it with
the letter dated late May 2021. One Call didnt address those complaints in its final response
in June 2021.
I find it likely that Mr Ds reference to the time of genuine emergency is a reference to one
or both of the incidents in October 2020.
However, Mr D hasnt given us enough details of those incidents or complaints. So Im not
persuaded that One Call was responsible for any unfair act or omission in relation to those
incidents.
There is a legal requirement for motor insurance for a motor vehicle on the road.
Many insurance policies and intermediaries have contractual terms with policyholders
allowing for automatic renewal. Such terms are often accompanied by a continuous payment
authority (CPA). I dont consider that unfair, keeping in mind the requirement for insurance.
One Calls information booklet included the following:
What Happens at Renewal
We will send out your new renewal terms at least 21 days before renewal for all
policies
Where possible we will automatically renew your insurance policy as long aswe hold valid payment details. Please see below for specific details. However,
if at any point you wish to opt-out of having your policy automatically renewed,
please contact us at least five days before your renewal date on 01302 554010.
Renewing by Direct Debit
If you pay for your insurance via Direct Debit, for your convenience we will
automatically renew your policy and send confirmation via email, along with your new
insurance documents, roughly one week before your renewal date
Continuous Payment Authority
Renewing by payment in full or credit/debit card
If you paid in full by credit/debit card and where we hold valid details, for your
convenience and protection, we will take money from your debit, credit card or
PayPal account with the full amount of your renewal premium up to five days before
your renewal date. Where we have taken payment for your renewal, and you contact
us before the renewal date to decline the renewal, we will arrange an immediate
refund for the amount debited
How to Decline an Automatic Renewal
Please note that failure to tell us that you do not want us to automatically renew your
policy before the renewal date will result in a charge of £35.99 as well as any time on
risk charge made by your insurers. If you wish to decline an automatic renewal,
please contact our Renewals Team by sending a written notice to our Head Office or
telephone us on 01302 554 010.
And the policy renewed in 2019 and 2020 without complaint. So Im satisfied that One Call
had got Mr Ds agreement to automatic renewal and CPA. One Call had also given
information about how to avoid automatic renewal (and therefore payment) either by sending
a written notice to its head office or by telephone.
Ive seen One Calls letter dated 8 January 2021. It included the following:
Next Steps
To make life easier we will automatically renew your policy for you so sit back and
relax while we do the hard work.
The payment will be taken from your debit/credit card or PayPal account used last
year up to five days before your renewal date.
If you do not wish to renew this policy please contact us on 01302 567007 or via live
chat at www.onecallinsurance.co.uk before the renewal date. Alternatively, you can
write to us at the address found at the top of this letter.
So the letter made clear that One Call would automatically renew the policy from 3 February
2021. It made clear that it would take payment up to five days before that date.
It also gave information about how to avoid automatic renewal (and therefore payment)
either by telephone or webchat or by writing to its postal address. I cannot say that One Call
shouldve undertaken to receive communications by email.
I accept that Mr D made unsuccessful attempts to contact One Call. But he hasnt given
enough detail of dates and times. So he hasnt shown us enough evidence that he made
those attempts before 3 February 2021. In any event, he had the option of writing a letter.
One Call confirmed the renewal by letter dated 29 January 2021. I find it likely that it took
payment at about the same time.
Im satisfied that One Call renewed the policy in line with its terms of business. So I dont find 
that One Call was responsible for any unfair act or omission in relation to the renewal or the 
payment.Mr Ds letter dated 10 February 2021 was after the renewal.
The policy had been live from renewal in February 2021 to cancellation in May 2021. So I
dont find that One Call treated Mr D unfairly by asking him to pay for time on cover and fees.
In any event, One Calls final response waived its charges and offered to waive the charge
for time on cover if Mr D could show that his vehicle had been insured elsewhere from 3
February 2021. I consider that this response was fair and reasonable.
As recently as September 2021, Mr D told us that he wouldnt give One Call information
about his then current policy. He hasnt shown us when he changed his mind and sent One
Call his certificate of insurance.
So Im not persuaded that One Call was responsible for any delay before 24 February 2022
when it confirmed to Mr D that he didnt owe any balance.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One Call to pay Mr D compensation or to 
do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman