DRN-1933560
The complaint
Mr R says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty lent to him irresponsibly. Mr R says he was in 
financially difficulty when Drafty approved the lending. He thinks it shouldve seen this and 
not lent to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr R on 
13 October 2017. This was an arrangement where Mr R could withdraw up to an agreed 
credit limit. He would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance each 
month plus any accrued interest or charges. 
The arrangement had an initial credit limit of £500. Mr R withdrew up to this amount almost 
straight away. He remained at, or close to, the credit limit for much of the remainder of the 
life of the account. Mr R made his last withdrawal on 20 March 2019. I understand the 
arrangement still has an outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Draftys decision to approve the 
initial lending was reasonable. But he also said that Drafty shouldve realised the lending 
was unsustainable by January 2019, and stopped lending from this time onwards. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He thought that all of the lending was 
irresponsible. And he also thought that the outstanding balance figure that Drafty used in its 
offer was incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr R could repay the account in a sustainable manner. 
Additionally, there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
And Drafty needed to monitor the account on an ongoing basis to ensure that the use of it 
didnt make it reasonable to think that Mr R was in financial difficulty. The FCA guidance is 
set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section 6.7.2R of the relevant guidance says: A 
firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action were there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr R provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr R said he had a monthly income of around £1,400 and he had regular monthly outgoings 
of £450. So it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to have assumed that the minimum 
repayments, which were illustrated at just short of £50 at outset, wouldve seemed affordable 
for him.   
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Drafty was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr R mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Rs circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Drafty to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Drafty did to before lending  
were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this lending was reasonable.
Ive also considered the use of the accounts up to January 2019. Having done this I think the 
lending history, and pattern of lending itself, clearly demonstrates that further lending was 
unlikely to be sustainable from this point onwards. I wont comment on this further as all 
parties to the complaint agree that this is the case. 
Mr R didnt think that the compensation calculation Drafty had provided was correct. He said 
the amount he owed was too high. Its not clear if this is due to the remaining amount being 
different at the time of offer to when Mr R received it. But Drafty should calculate and pay 
this compensation correctly. And it should provide Mr R with a breakdown of the 
compensation so he can check this against the statements that he has.
 
Putting things right
Drafty shouldnt have approved any lending after, and including, January 2019.
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt its should buy these back if Drafty is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then Drafty should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Drafty should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Drafty has already refunded.
B) Drafty should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Drafty should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding lending, and treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding lending. If this results in Mr R having made 
overpayments then Drafty should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Drafty should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr R. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Drafty should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R. Drafty shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Drafty has already written-off.E) Drafty should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to 
the lending from January 2019.  
F) Drafty should provide Mr R with a breakdown of the compensation calculation
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. Drafty should give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax Drafty has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman