DRN-1623068
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account which it called the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
What happened
Mr W took out an URCA in May 2010 with Bank of Scotland.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including mobile phone insurance, travel 
insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and a fee free overdraft of up to 
£300, for a monthly fee of £12.50.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ws complaint and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. Mr W 
disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr W was aware the URCA was optional and 
whether he was given a clear choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was.
Mr W has told us hed had a fee free account before he took out the URCA, so he knew 
he didnt have to pay a fee for an account.
Mr W says he took out the URCA mainly because he was told by Bank of Scotland that it 
would help him to get an overdraft. Whilst I dont doubt Mr Ws honest recollections, I 
think after the years that have elapsed, Mr Ws memory is mistaken.
I say this because I think its more likely than not that he wouldve been aware at the time of 
sale or shortly thereafter that fee free accounts with overdrafts were easily available to him 
from Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial businesses as these were widely 
advertised. And while the URCA did provide him access to discounted overdraft facilities, 
not having one didnt exclude him from having an overdraft from Bank of Scotland.
Lloyds has no record of him requesting an increase in his overdraft until several years after 
opening his account. And if he had taken out the URCA and then realised he wasnt going 
to get or use an overdraft, he could have cancelled his account at any time and used a fee 
free one, but he didnt, and he still had the URCA until recently. So, in my view I cant say 
its more likely than not he was told he should take out an URCA to get an overdraft when 
he opened it and just accepted this, as I would have to uphold his complaint on this point.
So, I think Mr W was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it recommended the URCA to Mr W.
So, Bank of Scotland needed not only to provide Mr W with enough information about the 
URCA to make an informed choice, but also it needed to ensure the URCA was suitable 
for him in his circumstances at the time of sale.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think Bank of Scotland did tell Mr W 
about the URCA is some detail as it was trying to sell the account to him. And I think it was 
suitable for him and of interest to him. 
I say this because hes told us that at the time he travelled on holiday each year; he had a 
car and a mobile phone; and he had recently gone occasionally overdrawn on his account 
so he would have expected to benefit from the better overdraft arrangements, in particular, 
avoiding the £1 a day charge that Bank of Scotland made on its fee free accounts. And he 
could have taken advantage of the purchase protection and other benefits the URCA 
offered. In later years he registered for the mobile phone insurance; enquired about the 
travel insurance and attempted to use the car breakdown service.
From what Mr W has said about his personal circumstances at the time he took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop him taking advantage of the URCAs 
benefits.
Mr W says he had alternative arrangements for some of these things. But it wouldve been 
for him to end those and use his account when he wished to. And it was also for him to 
close the account if he no longer wanted it at any time.
For completeness, Mr W says that when he tried to use the car breakdown service, he was 
told that he might incur charges to fix his car. In my view this was not contradictory to the 
information he was most likely given about the service, which did not include fixing any 
problem with the car irrespective of cost. However, if Mr W is still unhappy with the service 
he received, he should raise a complaint directly with the car breakdown assistance 
supplier.
So, in my view, Mr W knew he had a choice about the URCA and decided to take it; the 
URCA was not unsuitable for him, and there was no information that he wasnt given that 
would have put him off buying it.
So, I dont think Mr W lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman