DRN-4135875
The complaint
Mr O complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money he lost in a 
scam. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont go into detail here. Mr O 
made a payment of £2,900 through Wise to what he thought was a well-known company. 
The payment represented rent for a month and a security deposit. Mr O received emails and 
other documentation but after hed made the payment, he wasnt given any information 
about obtaining the keys and moving in and realised he was the victim of a scam. Later that 
day he contacted Wise to report what had happened. 
Wise didnt refund any of Mr Os loss. It referred to Wises terms and conditions which say a 
payment cant be reversed or recalled and that it is the senders responsibility to check the 
legitimacy of the recipient of funds. Wise noted that it had tried to contact the firm that 
received Mr Os funds but hadnt received a response. As Wise issued its final response 
letter later than it should, it offered Mr O a fee free transfer. 
Mr O was unhappy with Wises response. He said Wise should have intervened when the 
payment was made and it hadnt done enough to try to recover his funds. Mr O had 
contacted the recipient firm himself and been told that Wise needed to send an indemnity, 
but Wise hadnt done so.  
The investigator who considered this complaint said that Wise had no reason to have any 
concerns about the payment request Mr O made and so acted reasonably in processing it. 
But Wise didnt contact the firm that received Mr Os funds as promptly as it should have. 
Had Wise acted more quickly it could have secured the return of £4.49. So the investigator 
asked Wise to pay this (plus interest).
Wise agreed to pay Mr O £4.49. Mr O didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. 
He said:
- The payment was significantly greater than previous payments and so Wise should 
have stopped it.
- Wise should have acted more promptly to recover his funds and didnt provide the 
requested indemnity to Wise. 
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr O was the victim of a scam and of the impact the scam has had on him. 
I can understand why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only 
direct Wise to refund Mr Os loss if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible.
It is accepted that Mr O authorised the scam payments from his Wise account. So, although 
he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr O is presumed liable for his loss in the 
first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a valid payment 
instruction has been received Wises obligation is to follow the instructions that he provides. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank or money transfer platform like Wise to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be if a payment instruction is 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the account. In such 
circumstances Id expect Wise to intervene and ask more questions about the intended 
transaction before processing it. 
Ive considered Mr Os payment history for the 12-month period before the scam. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded that the £2,900 payment request was so unusual or out of 
character that Wise ought reasonably to have intervened when it was made. Whilst I 
appreciate the loss has had a big impact on Mr O he was making a relatively small payment 
that was in line with his usual account and payment history. Shortly before the scam 
payment was made, Mr O made a transfer of £1,030.
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the one 
Mr O made were stopped while further enquiries were made, many legitimate payments 
would be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay. 
For completeness, the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this case as 
Wise hasnt signed up to it. 
Recovery
I would expect Wise to contact the bank or other business that received Mr Os funds 
promptly to try to recover them. Mr O reported the scam to Wise on 19 October 2022, but 
Wise didnt take this step until 1 November. So Ive looked at what would have happened if 
Wise had taken appropriate steps soon after Mr O reported the scam. Ive seen confidential 
evidence that the majority of Mr Os funds were used up very soon after they reached the 
account and before Mr O contacted Wise. 
If Wise had acted more promptly it could have recovered £4.49. So I agree with the 
investigator that Wise should pay this amount to Mr O to put him in the position he would 
have been in if Wise had acted more promptly.
Overall, Im sorry Mr O has lost money to a cruel scammer, but I cant reasonably hold Wise 
responsible for the majority of his loss.
My final decision
I require Wise Payments Limited to pay Mr O £4.49 plus interest on this amount at the rate 
of 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman