DRN-3802461
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money that he says he lost to a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr A was interested in opening a takeaway and, on 15 December 2021, he made an 
£18,000 payment to a firm that Ill refer to as D to join their franchise. 
In April 2022 Mr A contacted Barclays asking them to recall the payment. This was because 
he said D hadnt provided the agreed service, so he wanted his money returned. Barclays 
said they would email the relevant team, log a complaint regarding the service hed received 
when raising this issue and credit his account £25. 
Mr A contacted Barclays further about the matter in late April, which prompted their final 
response of 4 May 2022. In short, Barclays said:
They couldnt recall the payment.
They looked at their chat history with Mr A and, although the relevant team had been 
emailed about recalling the £18,000, they couldnt see that theyd logged the 
complaint or credited the £25 they said they would. Internal feedback had been 
provided about this though.
From what Mr A had told them, he would need to raise a scam case with their Fraud 
Team to see if they could get the money back for him (and provided details about 
how to do this).
To apologise for the inconvenience caused, they credited Mr As account £100 
(inclusive of the £25 previously offered).
Mr A referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman but our investigator didnt think 
Barclays had to do anything further. He said banks arent obligated to protect customers 
against the risk of poor investments or civil disputes. And, in this case, he didnt think Mr A 
had been scammed. This was because, generally in the case of scams, its reasonable to 
expect an illegitimate company to be involved and for there to have never been any intention 
of providing any service. Here, it appears D is a legitimate company thats registered on 
Companies House and the dispute appears to be over the specifics of the contract  that 
being which party was responsible for identifying a suitable property location and organising 
relevant surveys etc. 
Our investigator also explained the franchisee acceptance document Mr A had provided 
appears genuine. And that, having carried out an open-source search, he couldnt find any 
indication of similar franchise scams by D. He explained theres limited scope for a bank to 
try and recover funds that have been authorised and sent by bank transfer. Although 
Barclays hadnt tried to recover funds in this instance (which he thinks was fair as Mr A 
hadnt provided sufficient information), he didnt think Barclays were under any obligation to 
do so. This was because he wasnt persuaded Mr A had been scammed but rather, he 
thought it was a civil dispute. 
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, hes said:
He wanted to open a takeaway and came across an online advertisement to join the 
D franchise. As part of his enquiry, he was told by D they would assist in searching 
for an appropriate takeaway location  with surveys carried out to test its suitability. 
And that they would also help with setting up the takeaway, such as preparing the 
shop counter, furniture and training of staff.
He paid the £18,000 to join the franchise but after sending them around 20 locations, 
D rejected them without consideration (such as a visit or survey completed). 
D also didnt suggest any locations for the takeaway even though the agreement 
says theyre required to. Instead, he was told they were busy with other takeaway 
shops and that it would take them a long time to find and establish it for him. 
He requested his money back from D but they said, as per the agreement, the 
£18,000 wasnt refundable. 
D have since gone completely silent, ignoring his attempts to contact them by various 
methods. 
He feels hes been scammed as D has acted fraudulently by taking his payment but 
not providing a service. 
He contacted Barclays to try to get his money but they didnt take any action. Instead, 
they apologised and didnt treat him fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, consumers are generally liable for 
payments they authorise. Barclays is expected to process authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. As a bank, they also have long-standing obligations to help protect 
customers from financial harm from fraud and scams. But those are predicated on there 
having been a fraud or scam. So, to start, Ive considered whether Mr A was a victim of a 
scam.
From what Ive seen, Mr A is clearly dissatisfied with the service hes received from D in 
setting up his takeaway shop since paying the £18,000 and them accepting his franchise 
request. But theres a high legal threshold for determining fraud. And, for Mr A to have been 
the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that D was intent on defrauding him from the 
outset. Ive given this careful consideration but I dont think I can say that is what most likely 
happened here. Ill explain why.Mr A says that D hasnt fulfilled the terms of the agreement  as they havent suggested any 
locations for the takeaway and rejected those he proposed without consideration. Our role 
however isnt to adjudicate on contractual disputes between parties. And the fact there is an 
agreement in place doesnt support the assertion that it is a scam designed to 
misappropriate Mr As money. In my view, it lends weight to this essentially being a business 
dispute between Mr A and D. And usually, once a scammer obtains funds (excluding where 
they are trying to entice the victim to send more), the scammer will commonly cease all 
contact. I cant see this is what happened here as, although Mr A says D later ignored him, 
they did respond to his property location suggestions. If it had been a scam, I think its more 
likely D wouldve immediately ignored Mr A.
Ive also considered that, as our investigator explained, D appears to be a legitimate 
franchise firm thats registered with Companies House. And there doesnt appear to be any 
other indications that D has carried out similar scams with others. So, while I appreciate 
Mr A is unhappy with whats happened and feels D has acted fraudulently, I dont feel its 
been sufficiently demonstrated that D intended to defraud Mr A from the outset. Instead, I 
consider this to be a contractual dispute regarding the responsibilities between both parties 
in establishing a suitable takeaway location. 
As I explained, Barclays has obligations to protect their customers from financial harm from 
fraud and scams. But, given there wasnt a scam here to prevent, these obligations dont 
apply to this payment. So, although Barclays did query Mr A about the reasons for the 
payment at the time  in which he confirmed he was buying into a business and was happy 
to proceed  they werent obligated to. Nor were they required to try to recover the funds 
upon being notified by Mr A that he considered D had defrauded him (although I note they 
didnt attempt to do so as they hadnt received sufficient information from him). 
Im aware that Mr A asked Barclays to recall the payment he made. But theres only specific 
circumstances that allow for this with authorised bank transfers. And, as Barclays explained, 
they couldnt do so in this instance and Im satisfied this was appropriate. I think its also 
worth adding that even if Barclays had attempted to recall the payment, its unlikely it 
wouldve been successful as D wouldve likely refused. Barclays did however acknowledge 
that there had been service failings and credited Mr As account £100. Ive considered this 
and I think its a reasonable figure to reflect the inconvenience Mr A suffered while raising 
this issue. So, Im not increasing it further. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr A is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Barclays has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman