DRN-4372127
The complaint
Mr C complains that eToro (UK) Ltd hasnt refunded transactions from his trading account 
which he says he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr C says that he had two women living with him for several months and that he was in a 
relationship with one of them. Its his contention that on 30 November 2021 these women 
drugged him and proceeded to carry out unauthorised transactions across several of his 
accounts.
The disputed transactions include transfers between bank accounts and credit cards in his 
name, with funds then being moved into his eToro trading account. From there, the funds 
were moved to a money account which was connected to the trading account but held with a 
different legal entity. Mr C says he didnt set up that money account (opened on 
19 November 2021), though it was in his name and applied for through his trading account. 
Finally, the money was moved from the money account to a third partys account held 
elsewhere. 
This complaint will only address the actions of eToro (UK) Ltd and the trading account held 
with it. None of the other accounts, including the money account, will form part of this 
assessment, though I may at times refer to activity on those accounts.
Mr C first became aware something was wrong when he found an email from eToro which 
stated thered been a change of email address on his account. The email said to contact 
eToro if this change was unauthorised and to use a link provided within the email, which 
would generate a customer service ticket. 
Mr C replied to the email at 7:44am, rather than using the link provided. As such eToro didnt 
pick up on his concerns until Mr C contacted it again later that afternoon, after 2:00pm, 
through a friends account. It then stopped any further activity.
Mr C asked eToro to return his money because he hadnt authorised any of the activity. But 
it declined to do so. It said everything had been done through Mr Cs registered device and 
using his login details. As he was unhappy with eToros response, Mr C brought his 
complaint to our service.
Mr C has also reported these events to the police. My understanding is that there have been 
no arrests to date.
One of our investigators considered what had happened and said eToro had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. In summary, he said there was nothing to suggest to eToro 
that anyone other than Mr C was issuing the instructions to trade and make payments on his 
account. His finding was then that eToro neednt refund the disputed transactions.
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not possible for me to determine exactly what happened here. I must use the evidence 
and information that is available to form my opinion on what I think  on the balance of 
probabilities  is more likely than not to have happened. 
I know Mr Cs position is that he didnt agree to any of the disputed activity on his eToro 
trading account, or any of the other accounts that have also been affected. But Im not 
persuaded the evidence supports what hes said, and so Im not upholding his complaint. 
The evidence shows it was Mr Cs registered device that was used to carry out all the 
disputed activity. That includes all the transactions on the trading account that is the subject 
of this complaint, but also all the other accounts that arent.
Ive thought about just how much someone would have needed in order to carry out the 
activity Mr C has disputed. This would include, but is not necessarily limited to:
unfettered access to Mr Cs mobile phone, from which the disputed activity was 
conducted;
knowledge of his phone passcode;
the ability to add an additional FaceID to his phone;
access to at least two banking apps;
access to his eToro trading app;
access to two different bank cards, each used to fund the trading account;
access to Mr Cs emails.
Mr C has said that because the two women he suspects were living with him they could have 
obtained this level of information and access over time. I cant discount that as a possibility. 
But the more the list of what was required grows, the more remote it becomes as whats 
more likely than not to have happened.
There would have to have been a few other things that went unnoticed by Mr C. He would 
have to have missed the fact a money account, connected to his trading account, was set up 
in his name. He would have received correspondence about that account, and a debit card 
was sent to his home address. But none of that was noticed. Again, this isnt impossible, but 
when added to the wider circumstances the likelihood of all this occurring decreases. 
The money account was set up on 19 November 2021 and was ready to use from that date. 
There was no need to wait for anyone to carry out transactions on the account as it could be 
used to make faster payments. So it seems strange that someone with the premeditated 
idea to steal from Mr C wouldnt go ahead as soon as possible. After all, the longer the 
money account was open, the more likely it would be that Mr C would have discovered it and 
questioned it.
This isnt the only question that arises when looking at the timing of different elements of the 
dispute. 
The first disputed transaction from Mr Cs trading account to the money account in his name 
was at 9:44am. Prior to that there was a cryptocurrency trade that appears to be very much 
in line with Mr Cs normal account activity. And its difficult to see why someone intent on 
taking Mr Cs money would create new trades just before starting to clear his account. So it 
seems more likely than not it was Mr C that initiated those trades. That was just 25 minutes 
before the first disputed payment and so leaves little time for one of Mr Cs suspects to 
obtain his phone without his knowledge and use it for at least another eight hours (theres a 
payment out of the money account at 5:59am). 
Mr C has said he was drugged, potentially as an explanation as to how someone was able to 
carry out this activity. Ive seen no evidence to substantiate that. And I note that detail wasnt 
included in Mr Cs statement to the police, where it seems to be an important part of his testimony. Its worth me saying here that the existence of the police statement, and even the 
messages from the police about pursuing suspects, doesnt alter the outcome of this 
complaint. 
There is a further transaction out of Mr Cs trading account at 9:34am, a transfer of 
£4,719.46 into the money account. But Mr C had emailed eToro about not authorising the 
change of email address at 7:44am. That must mean that, even if he wasnt fully aware of 
the disputed activity, he must have at least regained access to his device. But, as Ive said, 
transactions take place on that same device. That means the device used to carry out the 
transaction was in Mr Cs possession at the time. Its then difficult to see how anyone else 
could have carried it out, or to have done so without Mr Cs knowledge. 
Even if Im wrong about all Ive said here, and it is the case that a nefarious third-party 
carried out all the disputed activity  however improbable and remote that seems in the face 
of the evidence  I still wouldnt be upholding the complaint. I say as much because I can 
see why the transactions all appeared to be properly authorised by Mr C, for many of the 
reasons Ive already explained. Everything was done on his registered device, with no signs 
of any tampering, new devices being added, or incorrect attempts at login details. 
Mr Cs device had been verified and had two-factor authentication in place. That means that 
his phone would occasionally be checked by eToro, with the requirement to supply a 
verification code, to keep access live. It isnt the case that such a code would be generated 
for every transaction. Instead, as Mr C opted to have his device remembered, a code would 
be generated after a period of time. All of the transactions took place within a session 
(lasting several days) that had already been verified. Its also worth noting that any code that 
might have otherwise been generated would have been sent to Mr Cs phone. So whoever 
was in possession of the phone would have had access to the code. 
Its also the case that all the transactions out of the trading account were going to a money 
account in Mr Cs name. This would further add an appearance of legitimacy to the 
transactions. So I can see why eToro would have believed everything was being properly 
authorised and didnt have any concerns. I appreciate the money account was quite new. 
But it had been open and operational for eleven days by the time the disputed transactions 
start, with correspondence and a debit card having been sent. Not to mention that the money 
account was applied for through Mr Cs eToro trading account. As a reminder, Im not 
considering the actions of the firm which set up and operates the money account as it is a 
separate legal entity. But there is a lot here that points to the transactions being properly 
authorised and so I find eToros position on the matter is fair and reasonable.
I know Mr C attempted to contact eToro at 7:44am and that there was further disputed 
activity after this time. Im satisfied eToro hasnt made an error in not restricting his account 
at the point he sent the email. Its clear Mr C replied to eToros message, instead of following 
the steps it said he should take. He might have done so in a panic, which could be 
understandable in the circumstances. The impact was that eToro essentially didnt receive 
the notification from Mr C and so had no idea anything was wrong. I cant say it has been at 
fault here.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against eToro (UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman