The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Virgin Money plc changed the interest rate on their mortgage 
and say they were not informed of this. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage in 2017 on a 2-year tracker which was due to revert to the 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR) in January 2020. Virgin Money said they sent Mr and Mrs K a 
letter in September 2019 reminding them that the tracker rate was due to expire. They said 
they also wrote to Mr and Mrs K in November 2019 about a Consent to Let agreement that 
Mr and Mrs K had  which was due to end on 16 December 2019. Virgin Money said they 
enclosed a new application form, and they received this back and reviewed it in November 
2019. Virgin Money sent another letter to Mr and Mrs K in December 2019 letting them know 
what their new payments would be from January 2020.
Mr and Mrs K said they never received any of these letters, and they were not notified that 
their rate or their payments were changing. Virgin Money said they sent the correspondence 
to the correct address and as Mr and Mrs K had returned the Consent to Let application 
form, they were satisfied that the address they sent the letters to was the right one.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with what Virgin Money had told them, so they brought the 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt think 
that Virgin Money had done anything wrong. He agreed that they had sent the letters out to 
the address they had on file.
Mr and Mrs K didn't agree. They said Virgin Money never sent the letters to them and they 
did not receive them. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs K, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the screen shots that Virgin Money sent us which confirm the correspondence 
address they hold for Mr and Mrs K. This is the same address they sent the letters to which 
informed them of their rate change. 
DRN-1954000Virgin Money sent their first notification on 4 September 2019 which reminded Mr and Mrs K 
that their 2-year tracker was coming on an end. They then sent another letter on 6 
December 2019 letting Mr and Mrs K know what their new monthly payment was going to be 
from January 2020. Both letters were sent to the address that Virgin Money had on file. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K have said they didnt receive the letters, but I cant hold Virgin 
Money responsible for that. I would expect them to send correspondence to the address they 
hold on file, which they have. And I have seen the letters they have sent, and I am satisfied 
that the addresses match.
In addition to this, Virgin Money notified Mr and Mrs K in November 2019 that their Consent 
to Let was coming to an end, and they sent a new application form for them to complete. 
Mr and Mrs K returned this form. The letter and application form were sent to the same 
address that Virgin Money held so this also confirms that the letters were sent to the correct 
address.
Ive also looked at the mortgage offer from the time that the mortgage was taken out. This 
offer states that once the tracker period finishes, the interest rate will revert to the SVR. So 
the rate changed in line with the contract that Mr and Mrs K agreed to.
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs K, but Im satisfied that Virgin Money 
have done what they needed to in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13August2020.
Maria Drury
Ombudsman