DRN-4138579
The complaint
Ms O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did not remove four late 
payment markers they registered on her credit file which impacted her ability to get credit.
What happened
In October 2016, Ms O had raised a complaint with Halifax regarding fees which had been 
applied to her current account. Halifax agreed to refund the fees which left an overdrawn 
balance of £518.44. Halifax also agreed to close her account and backdate the default to 
October 2014, and they also advised her that if she repaid her debt within 60 days they 
wouldnt close her account or apply a default. As Ms O cleared the balance the following 
month, her account remained open. Ms O says that there had been four late payment 
markers which had been recently applied to the account which shouldnt have been applied. 
Ms O made a complaint to Halifax.
Halifax upheld Ms Os complaint. They said that as no default was applied to her credit file, 
they didnt check it and notice that four late payment markers had been recently applied. 
They apologised for not removing the negative information from her credit file in 2016, which 
impacted her recent applications for credit and caused her a lot of worry. Halifax said the late 
payment markers would be removed within the next seven days, but it could take up to 60 
days to show on her credit file. They offered her compensation of £94.99, which included 
£14.99 to cover her credit file fee. Ms O brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said that the evidence showed that Ms O was in an unarranged overdraft 
and that Halifax wrote to her twice in September 2016 regarding the account status, warning 
her of the consequences of not paying the outstanding balance on the account. She said Ms 
O cleared most of the outstanding balance with a small remaining balance of £30.44 which 
Halifax cleared on 1 December 2016, and there was no evidence that they had recorded a 
default, so they did what they said they would do. Our investigator said that Halifax had 
wrongly admitted that they shouldnt have recorded adverse entries and agreed to remove 
them, which the evidence shows that this has been done. But she said she didnt agree that 
Halifax made an error in recording the information initially. And as such, she benefitted from 
the information being removed when Halifax shouldnt have removed this. 
Ms O asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She highlighted the wording used 
by Halifax which included the wording Im sorry we didnt remove the negative information 
from your file in 2016. I appreciate that this has impacted your recent applications for credit 
and caused you a lot of worry. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make Ms O aware that Im unable to look into the merits of the complaint she raised 
with Halifax in 2016 and that Halifax addressed in the letter dated 3 October 2016, as this 
has been brought to our service outside of the time limits which would allow me to look into 
this. 
But I have looked at Halifaxs wording which she has highlighted to our service from her 
response to her recent complaint. The letter is dated 28 September 2022. The wording is 
how Ms O described it on the previous page of this decision. Halifax have explained that the 
discrepancy for this is that when their complaint handler assessed the complaint that Ms O 
brought to them in 2022, the complaint handler assessed how they wouldve looked at the 
complaint in view of how they would treat things differently now compared to 2016. 
Halifax have explained that if they would have looked at things how they shouldve done, 
then they wouldnt have removed the late payment markers as the agreement was If the 
balance is cleared by 25th November 2016 I will remove any default information if recorded 
before this time. As a default is different than a late payment marker than this is why Halifax 
say they shouldnt have agreed to remove the four late payment markers and Ms O has 
benefitted from these being removed when they shouldnt have been. 
Based on the wording of the response Ms O received in 2022, I can understand why she 
believes Halifax have done something wrong as they said they did in that letter. But having a 
look at the response in her 2016 letter, this does say that they would remove any default 
information, which is different from a late payment marker. 
Ms O has confirmed to our investigator that she doesnt have a copy of her credit file, so Im 
unable to see what has been reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). The 
information which Halifax have provided me about the information reported to the CRAs is 
after they asked them to remove the four late payment markers, and they dont have the 
information prior to this, so they are unable to tell me the dates of the late payment markers. 
Ms Os final response letter from 2016 shows that Halifax refunded £530 worth of fees. Ms 
Os bank statements shows that she was overdrawn by £518.44 after the £530 refund had 
reduced her balance on 3 October 2016  the same date as her final response. No bank 
fees had been charged after this. £75 was paid into the account on 17 October 2016, which 
meant she was overdrawn by £443.44. But when she made the final payment to the account, 
the statements show this was for £413, and not £443.44. So this meant she had an 
unarranged overdraft still, which Halifax would be obliged to report this to the CRAs as they 
are required to report accurate information. 
Without Ms Os credit file, or the dates of the late payment markers from Halifax, Im unable 
to see if this is the timeframe that Halifax reported the unarranged overdraft (the four late 
payment markers) to the CRAs. But on the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded it was. I 
say this as Ms O has forwarded on to us an email of her credit application with a third party 
bank being declined in July 2022. As information is usually held on a credit file for six years, 
this would fit into when Halifax made a goodwill payment to clear the unarranged overdraft 
on 1 December 2016. So it may be that the credit file was showing late payment markers 
(the unarranged overdraft) for August, September, October and November 2016 (or around 
these dates).
But ultimately, the final response letter from 2016 shows they would not register a default if 
she made the required payment. It did not say they wouldnt register an unarranged 
overdraft or late payment marker. As Ms Os statement shows she was still in an unarranged 
overdraft even when she had made a payment, then I cant say Halifax were wrong to report 
this to the CRAs. But they arranged to have this removed from her credit file in September 
2022. 
As Halifax have given conflicting information about these markers by first saying they made 
an error not removing them, and now they say they didnt make an error reporting them, they have agreed to honour the compensation they offered her on 28 September 2022 of £94.99. 
Im satisfied that this is a fair offer based on the information Ive been able to consider here, 
so I think Halifax should pay Ms O the £94.99 that they have offered her, but I dont require 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £94.99 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Ms O £94.99. But I 
wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman