DRN-3388962
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation 
to his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. Portal processed the transfer of 
Mr Ts DB scheme benefits to a personal pension with an income drawdown facility on an 
insistent client basis. Mr T says he received negligent advice from Portal, which has 
resulted in him suffering a loss.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr T approached Portal in response to a promotional letter to discuss his 
pension and retirement needs.
In a telephone call on 31 January 2018, Portal completed a fact-find to gather information 
about Mr Ts circumstances and objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced. On 12 February 2018 Portal sent Mr T a 
letter saying that it recommended he didnt transfer his DB pension scheme benefits 
because of the guarantees / benefits hed be giving up. But Portal said it could still help Mr T 
if he wanted to go ahead and it asked him to complete and return the enclosed insistent 
client form.
On 15 February 2018 Mr T returned the insistent client form. Where asked, Mr T indicated 
on the form that he acknowledged his new pension was unlikely to achieve the required 
growth rate and that he was giving up guaranteed benefits. Mr T indicated that he wanted to 
access his pension money early because he wanted to do so while I am fit and healthy.. He 
also said that hed paid his National Insurance contributions all of his working life and wanted 
the state to look after him in retirement. He also said that his mortgage was due to end 
shortly.
On 24 February 2018 Portal sent Mr T a suitability report setting out its advice. The report 
outlined Mr Ts circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he was employed full-
time; he was married; he owned his own home which was mortgaged; he had around 
£10,000 in savings in assets; he may receive an inheritance in the future; and jointly with his 
wife, they had a disposable income of £400 each month. 
The report went on to set out the details of Mr Ts existing DB pension scheme, which 
included the transfer value and the amount of pension Mr T could expect from his scheme at 
age 65. It also said the critical yield required to match Mr Ts existing scheme benefits was 
9.8% (assuming a reduced pension and tax-free sum being paid.)
The report said that Mr Ts objective was to access his tax-free cash entitlement to put into 
savings and create an emergency fund. 
Portal noted that it had explored with Mr T other ways to generate the money required to 
meet his objective - but said that he didnt want to take on further lending or pay the resulting 
interest and he didnt have enough disposable income to cover what he needed.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended 
that Mr T shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the benefits he would 
be giving up  but it said that Mr T had decided to disregard the advice and that it would be 
treating him as an insistent client. It went on to recommend that Mr T transfer his pension to 
a flexi-access drawdown pension to enable him to meet his objective.
Mr T signed the relevant application forms in February 2018 and the transfer went ahead. Mr 
T received his tax-free cash payment and the proceeds were invested in a range of funds, 
which Portal deemed matched Mr Ts attitude to risk.
In 2020 Mr T complained, via a representative to Portal about the advice he received.
Portal considered the complaint and issued its final response to Mr T in November 2020. In 
summary it said that it had provided suitable advice. It said that it had recommended Mr T 
not to transfer the benefits from his DB scheme because of the guaranteed benefits it 
provided. It said that it fully explained the risks involved and that Mr T was better off 
remaining in his DB scheme, which Mr T signed to say he understood. But it said that Mr T 
insisted on going ahead against the advice, so it treated him as an insistent client and 
facilitated the transfer.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and they
concluded that his complaint should be upheld. In summary they said that the transfer wasnt 
in Mr Ts best interests and they didnt think Portal had followed the insistent process 
appropriately. They said that while Mr T completed the insistent client forms, which made 
reference to the guarantees he was giving up by transferring, this was all done before he 
received the suitability report setting out the advice. They didnt think Mr T had a real need to 
access his pension monies and that Portal should have questioned things given all Mr T 
wanted to do was to add to his emergency cash savings. They went on to question Portals 
assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk as balanced given his lack of investment experience  
but said that because Mr T shouldnt have transferred out of his DB scheme they didnt need 
to consider this point any further.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said:
it believes it acted fairly and reasonably and with Mr Ts best interest in mind.
it advised against the transfer and clearly explained this to Mr T. 
Mr T clearly chose the option to go against Portals recommendation and he 
confirmed that he was aware of the risks and the benefits he would be giving up by 
transferring.
It disagrees with the investigator that it classified Mr T as an insistent client before he 
received the advice  it says its letter of 12 February 2018 was a written 
recommendation.
it believes it followed the correct insistent client process and says that its postal 
correspondence process demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions.
it believes the evidence suggests that Mr T would have transferred his DB pension 
benefits regardless of its involvement because of his strong objective to access 
monies early.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to 
me for a final decision.
I asked Portal for some more information around the telephone calls Mr T had with it leading 
up to the advice he received. Because Portal hasnt responded, Ive reached my decision on 
the information that is available.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr T as an insistent client - this is a 
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
Since 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three 
key steps for advisers to take.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client - COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Portal says that it followed the rules  it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Ts best 
interests. It says that it followed the correct insistent client process and that its postal 
correspondence process demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions. Mr T 
says that he received negligent advice and as a result hes suffered a loss for which he 
wants compensating for.Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, while Portals initial written 
communication with Mr T did set out that its recommendation for him was not to proceed 
with the transfer, I think there were weaknesses and failings in Portals advice process, 
which meant it didnt act in Mr Ts best interests. And I think Mr T likely understood or 
believed overall that Portal was recommending he should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 12 February 2018 following the telephone discussions Portal had with 
Mr T about his pension options, it sent him what Portal says was a written recommendation, 
but what I think can only be described as a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said 
that because Mr T would be giving up guaranteed benefits provided by his DB scheme, it 
recommended he should not transfer away from his DB scheme to access a tax-free cash 
lump sum. 
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr Ts best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the 
loss of guarantees. While Portal subsequently sent a more detailed suitability report, which I 
will refer to later on, at this stage Mr T had little information to go off to decide if being an 
insistent client was truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr T should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by 
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be 
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr T needed to complete 
and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against 
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes 
me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Ts 
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis 
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Ts best interests, it also wouldnt have told him 
at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit a brief one - how he could put it 
aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr T could ignore 
Portals recommendation was unfair to him and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal 
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed 
on this, that Mr T could reasonably have interpreted this overall that Portal was 
recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr T had limited knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. While the fact-
find records in the assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk that hed had pensions, endowments 
and/or other investments before theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-
find, which suggests Mr T was an experienced investor. At the time its recorded he held 
nothing other than cash deposits. I can also see that in answer to one of the questions Portal 
asked Mr T in assessing his attitude to risk, he said ticked the option which said that I am 
likely to rely on an adviser but understand the fundamentals when they are explained to me. 
This answer in my view doesnt reflect someone who was experienced in financial matters.
I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters 
through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mr Ts insistent client forms included a section where he put in his own words 
why he wanted to access his pension fund early. And while this was something the FCA 
guidance pointed to as being good practice, I dont think Mr Ts response adequately demonstrates that he knew and understood the risks involved and the recommendation 
being made. 
I say this not only because the majority of the form was pre-completed and Mr T simply had 
to tick a box to say that he understood what he was giving up by transferring, but crucially as 
I indicated earlier on, he hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report and had time to 
digest it before deciding to go ahead anyway. So Im not persuaded Mr T was able to make 
an informed choice here. And I dont think this document alone sufficiently showed Mr T was 
an insistent client.
It was only after receiving Mr Ts confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portal sent him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation not 
to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was followed by a positive recommendation, advising 
Mr T to transfer his benefits to facilitate a flexible drawdown pension. And this was all set out 
under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr T 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr T advice on the advice to transfer, 
and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability report after 
securing Mr Ts confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr T transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this 
undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively recommended 
that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring out of the DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ts best interests, it needed to ensure 
that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable for him. It couldnt 
separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of the full suitability report Mr T 
likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme, and it was 
reasonable for him to do so.
Turning to Mr Ts objective and the reason he wanted to access his pension early  its 
recorded on the advice paperwork that he wanted to add to his savings to create an 
emergency fund. Interestingly this is not what Mr T said in his insistent client form. Here he 
said that he wanted to access his money while he was fit and healthy and that because hed 
paid his national insurance contributions for almost 50 years, he said it was about time the 
state looked after him. 
In my view this lacks clarity about why Mr T wanted to access his pension early. I also think 
this is evidence that Mr Ts objective was somewhat vague and ill-defined. I think in acting in 
Mr Ts best interests, this shouldve reasonably prompted Portal to ask more questions of 
him at this stage before continuing to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer his 
pension. 
Assuming it was Mr Ts objective to create an emergency fund, I dont think it was necessary 
for him to gain access to his pension monies early to achieve this. I say this because Mr T 
had existing cash savings of around £10,000  so it appears he already had a reasonable 
emergency fund to fall back on. Ive not seen any evidence that Portal ascertained how 
much extra Mr T was looking to build up or importantly why.
 
If Mr T was seeking to build further funds, I think there were reasonable alternatives 
available to him, which Portal couldve explored with him. I can see that Portals 
recommendation says that it did discuss alternative courses of action with Mr T to meet his 
objective and the reasons these were discounted. But I dont think enough consideration was 
given to what should have been an important part of Portals advice process. Two of the alternatives discussed involved Mr T borrowing money, which I dont think was 
appropriate in the circumstances. And the other  Mr Ts disposable income  was recorded 
as being insufficient to cover what he needed. But in my view Portal didnt really ascertain 
what Mr T needed or over what timeframe to discount the alternative of him using surplus 
income to generate additional cash funds. Its recorded that Mr T had surplus income of at 
least £400 each month - so given he intended to keep working, this couldve been used to 
build up his savings. Im also mindful that the budget planner Portal completed recorded Mr 
T as having miscellaneous monthly expenditure of over £2,000. In my view I think its likely 
that better and more detailed interrogation and advice of this element of Mr Ts budget 
wouldve uncovered that at least some of this sum couldve also been directed towards 
building his savings. 
Furthermore it was also the case that Mr Ts mortgage was due to end within 15 months, 
freeing up around £1,000 a month, which couldve also been directed to his savings. Im  
mindful too that Mr T told Portal he was likely to receive an inheritance in the future  but no 
further questions about this were asked to see if this couldve provided a solution to Mr Ts 
objective.
I consider the rules that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act with due 
care and skill and act in Mr Ts best interests. And by not seeking to fully understand and 
address Mr Ts objective, Im not persuaded this was acting in Mr Ts best interest. And 
ultimately I dont think Mr T was able to make an informed choice here - it seems to me that 
he most likely went ahead with the transfer because he was seduced by the sum of money 
he was told by Portal he could gain access to. And because he believed this was the only 
way to achieve his goal given Portals failure to fully explore and place greater weight and 
emphasis on the alternative solutions available to him. I also cannot ignore the fact that I 
think Portal ultimately gave Mr T a positive recommendation to transfer out of his DB 
scheme, which in the circumstances I think wouldve given him the impression that Portal 
agreed with his approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr T can truly be regarded as an insistent 
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an insistent client. 
Portals overall communication with Mr T wasnt clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr Ts best 
interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill. 
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether 
Mr T wouldve still gone ahead. Portal says he would have done so because of his strong 
objective to access monies early. But I disagree  I think if Portal had acted in Mr Ts best 
interests, providing a recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction 
envisaged at the outset, and addressing Mr Ts objective at the time, I dont think he 
wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider 
Mr T was an experienced investor such that he possessed the requisite knowledge or had 
the confidence to go against the advice he was given. I think he relied solely on the advice 
and process Portal employed. I dont consider Mr Ts objective was clearly defined or that he 
was wedded to it. 
I also think there were reasonable alternatives at his disposal to meet his objective, which 
had these been clearly and fully discussed with Mr T at the time, he wouldve likely 
accepted.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account Im not 
persuaded Mr T would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portals failings. I consider Mr T would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct process 
followed.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr T couldve taken his DB pension benefits at age 65 without 
reduction. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision.
 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman