DRN-3573380
The complaint
Mr W complains about Santander UK Plc and their refusal to supply him with the details of 
the payee that made a payment into his account.
What happened
On 15 December 2021, Mr W received a payment of £62.46 into his account. But Mr W 
didnt expect or recognise this payment. So, he contacted Santander and asked them to 
provide him with the payee details so he could understand where the payment had come 
from.
Santander explained they were unable to provide the full payee information as it would 
breach data protection. But they did provide Mr W with the sort code and confirmed that the 
payment hadnt come from any of the accounts he held with Santander. So, they explained it 
was likely the payment had been made from one of Mr Ws external accounts. Mr W was 
unhappy with this response, so he raised a complaint.
Mr W thought Santanders refusal to provide him with the payee information was unfair. Mr 
W thought Santander were hiding behind data protection rules, so they didnt have to provide 
this, and he didnt think this was reasonable. So, he wanted Santander to provide him with 
the full payee information that would allow him to trace the payment.
Santander responded and didnt agree. They thought they had acted in line with data 
protection and their internal processes when refusing to provide Mr W with the full payee 
information. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. And they again 
recommended Mr W check his external accounts to establish the origin of the payment. Mr 
W remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Santander 
acted fairly when refusing to provide the full payee information and this wasnt information 
theyd expect Santander to disclose, due to data protection. So, while they recognised Mr 
Ws frustration, they didnt think Santander needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He explained hed since found the payment was an interest payment that 
had been made from one of his own external accounts. So, he didnt think Santander acted 
fairly or reasonably when refusing to disclose the full details of an account he owned, which 
he thought they wouldve been aware of. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I appreciate Mr W 
wasnt expecting to receive a payment into his account for that amount. So, when he noticed 
it, I can understand why hed be confused and want to seek clarity on who it had been paid 
by to ensure it was an amount due to him that he could spend if he wanted to. And I 
appreciate why Mr W would see Santander, the provider of his account, as the best place to 
seek this information. I can also appreciate why Mr W would be left feeling frustrated when 
Santander refused to provide this information, even more so when Mr W later found out it 
was an interest payment from an external account in his name.
But for me to say Santander have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that by 
refusing to provide Mr W this information, they acted unfairly and unreasonably. And that this 
refusal was an error on Santanders part and this information would usually be disclosed in a 
similar situation. And in this instance, I dont think thats the case. 
I think its important for me to explain my role, and exactly what I can and cannot consider. 
Im aware Mr W is unhappy with Santanders internal process regarding the payee 
information theyre willing to provide to a customer. But our service is unhappy to comment 
on, or ask businesses to change, their own commercial and system processes. This would 
be for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to decide. So, Im unable to 
say Santanders internal process regarding the payee information they release is 
unreasonable.
But what I am able to consider is the fairness of the service Santander have provided to Mr 
W. And I can see when Mr W queried the origin of the payment he received, Santander 
explained their internal process and their need to ensure they didnt breach data protection, 
before providing Mr W with what limited information they could.
I can see Mr W was provided with the sort code of the account that made the payment into 
his account. And I can see Santander suggested Mr W check his external accounts, as the 
payment didnt arrive from an account he held with Santander. Mr W has since confirmed he 
sourced the origin of the payment, and it did come from an external account he held. So, Im 
satisfied the information Santander gave Mr W was fair, and that it led to the outcome Mr W 
was hoping for in understanding where the payment came from. While I appreciate this may 
have taken Mr W more time and effort than he liked, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
hold Santander responsible for this. So, I dont think Santander need to do anything more on 
this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I recognise why Mr W would 
dispute the fairness of Santander not being able to provide him with the payee information of 
an external account in his name. But Santander have confirmed this is because they dont 
release payee information about any external account that paid into a customers account in 
order to comply with data protection and their internal process. And Id expect Santander to 
ensure all customers and treated fairly and equally, with the same processes being following 
on each occasion. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman