DRN-3301440
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Coutts & Company (Coutts) blocked a payment from his account 
 which meant that he missed out on a significant profit on an investment.
What happened
In autumn 2021, Mr H set up a payment from his Coutts account to make an investment in 
cryptocurrency.  Hed made payments to the same seller before.  But, this time, Coutts 
blocked the payment  which Mr H says meant he lost out on a significant profit.
Mr H complained to Coutts.  Coutts investigated and wrote to him with their findings.  They 
said they knew trading in cryptocurrency was growing more popular.  But there were also 
increasing risks that this would be exploited by fraudsters.  So theyd made the decision to 
block payments to certain beneficiaries to protect their clients.  
Coutts said a message explaining what theyd done had been displayed for four weeks to all 
online customers.  And, while they were sorry Mr H had lost out on this investment, their 
priority was to protect their customers.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Couttss response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator reviewed it and concluded Coutts didnt need to do anything differently.  She 
explained that, to say Coutts should pay Mr H compensation, shed need to be satisfied 
theyd made a mistake  and it was that mistake which led to his losses.
The investigator was satisfied that Coutts had taken the steps it had to comply with their 
regulatory requirements to protect themselves and their clients from fraud.  Theyd done this 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account.  And the alert theyd placed on their 
website explained their position to customers.  She didnt think Coutts had made any 
mistake which should mean they paid Mr H compensation.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Our investigator explained the circumstances in which I can ask Coutts to pay Mr H 
compensation  which Ive summarised above.   Ive reviewed the documentation available 
to decide whether the conclusions she reached are fair and reasonable.  Only if I disagree 
can I say Coutts should do something more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.
As the investigator said, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires banks to have 
processes in place to protect them and their clients from fraud.  Even though that can be 
inconvenient for clients, banks have to prioritise security.
Thats not to say banks shouldnt warn their clients this may happen.  But Im satisfied Coutts 
did make Mr H aware payments for cryptocurrency may be blocked.  The terms and 
conditions of his account include a term which says:
6. Delaying or refusing to act on your instructions
6.1 We will follow your instructions, unless we:

are concerned about fraudulent activity;


believe that it is necessary to reject your instruction to protect you or us from a 
crime. 
And the notice to online customers (which was displayed in the weeks immediately before 
Mr H tried to make the payment) makes it clear they consider dealing with cryptocurrency 
may fall within these categories.
In response to the investigators view, Mr H said hed discussed the investments he wanted 
to make with Coutts  including the risk of him falling victim to a fraud.  And he said Coutts 
should be looking at him as an individual, as they say they provide a bespoke service.
Ive thought about this.  But even though Coutts say they provide a bespoke service, they 
still have to fulfil the regulatory requirements of the FCA.  It wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
say they should disregard those.
Nor can I say what processes Coutts should implement.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to say 
that  as Mr H has suggested  they should agree terms and conditions with each customer 
individually.  Their terms and conditions make it clear there are circumstances in which they 
wont action a customers instructions.  The warning made it clear investing in cryptocurrency 
may well fall within those circumstances.  I agree with our investigator Coutts dont need to 
do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Coutts & Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman