DRN-2976347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint relates to a mortgage Mr H holds with Landmark Mortgages 
Limited. They are unhappy that it declined the application to borrow back overpayments that 
had been made to the mortgage. In addition, they are unhappy with the poor communication 
around the issue.
What happened
Mr Hs mortgage was taken out in 2006. Under section 12 of the mortgage offer some 
additional features were detailed. These included a borrow back facility:
If you have previously made overpayments which total at least £500.00, then subject to 
Northern Rocks prior agreement you may be able to borrow back some or all of the amount 
overpaid  provided that the amount requested is at least £500.00.
In May 2020 Mr H and Mrs H wrote to Landmark to ask to borrow back the overpayments, of 
around £10,000, that had been made to the mortgage. Landmark responded by telling them 
that there were no funds available to borrow back. 
Mr H and Mrs H and Landmark exchanged correspondence over the following months. 
Landmark explained that the overpayments couldnt be borrowed back because they hadnt 
been made by them, but rather by the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). It also 
highlighted that it was at the discretion of Landmark whether borrow back would be allowed. 
As Mr H and Mrs H remained unhappy with Landmarks stance, it treated their concerns as a 
complaint. It sent them a response in August 2020 in which it partially upheld their complaint. 
Landmark reiterated its earlier explanation that the reason the borrow back request had 
been rejected was because the overpayments had been made by the DWP. As DWP can 
request back funds it has paid, Landmark doesnt allow any of them to be withdrawn from 
the mortgage by the borrower. It also highlighted that whilst the mortgage conditions do 
allow borrow back, any such application is subject to approval. Landmark was satisfied that it 
had acted correctly when declining the application. However, it accepted the explanation it 
provided could have been better and it apologised for that.
Mr H and Mrs H werent happy with the response they received and asked this service to 
consider the complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and asked various questions of 
Landmark. The outcome of those discussions was that Landmark confirmed that if the DWP 
consented to the overpayments being paid out, and the increased mortgage met its standard 
affordability criteria, it would allow the borrow back. The investigator considered this was a 
fair way forward.
Mr H and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators view. They considered that it was not 
necessary to obtain consent from the DWP, nor was it feasible to do so. They didnt think 
that they would be able to find someone within the DWP capable of understanding the 
situation, let alone addressing it and putting a response in writing. They quoted a letter from 
the DWP regarding the payments. 
This is to confirm that we are currently paying your mortgage interest at a weekly rate of 
£139.62.
The interest rate at which we pay your mortgage is set by the Government and the current 
rate of interest is 3.63%. Any excess of interest should be used to credit your capital balance 
outstanding.
Mr H and Mrs H said that it was crystal clear that any overpayments accruing were to be 
used to reduce the outstanding capital balance. They went on to say that prior to the 2017 
changes to the benefits system, there was no provision for any payments to be clawed back, 
other than in the event of proven fraud. Mr H and Mrs H also quoted from an email Mrs H 
provided, that they report was sent to her from the Citizens Advice Bureau, although the 
email address and content doesnt confirm that. This stated that any overpayment made by 
the DWP could legitimately be used to pay off the capital. This wouldnt count as a benefit 
overpayment, so wouldnt be recoverable from your client or the mortgage lender.
In addition, Mr H and Mrs H said it was ridiculous that Landmark be allowed to complete an 
affordability assessment. They said they were not taking out new borrowing, but rather 
restoring previously approved borrowing. This simply moved the mortgage back to its 
original and already approved value of £319,840. They also said that the increase to the 
monthly payments would be trivial. Mr H and Mrs H also asked if, as overpayments could 
be used to make underpayments, monthly payments to the mortgage could be stopped until 
the amount of the overpayments was used up. They also asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
Our investigator considered what Mr H and Mrs H had to say, but he remained satisfied that 
the conditions of the borrow back were reasonable. In addition, due to the circumstances, he 
didnt consider that it would be reasonable to ask Landmark to consider stopping collecting 
the mortgage payments in the way described. 
Mr H and Mrs H remained unhappy with the investigators view. They confirmed that they 
didnt want to ask the DWP for permission to have the overpayments paid to them and 
werent happy to go through an affordability assessment. They confirmed that they wanted 
the matter referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Landmark declined the application to borrow back overpayments because they came from 
the DWP. Many lenders dont allow such payments to be refunded or borrowed back by 
consumers, so its decision isnt out of line with much of the mortgage industry. Landmark 
has said that it doesnt allow borrow back of payments received from the DWP in the event 
that it asks for the money back. I dont think this is necessarily an unreasonable position. 
Mr H and Mrs H have said that the DWP wont ask for the overpayment back because of 
how the benefit involved was paid. I think they are likely right that the overpayment alone 
wouldnt be required to be paid back, but there is the possibility that the entire benefit 
payment could be demanded back. Whether that is likely to happen may be questionable, 
but it is a possibility and so I can understand why Landmark was reticent to allow Mr H and 
Mrs H to borrow some of that payment back.Mr H and Mrs H highlighted a letter that was sent to Mrs H confirming the amount of benefit 
that would be paid. The letter specifically instructed that if the amount it was paying was 
more than the interest payment Mrs H needed to make to the lender, the additional sum was 
to be used to reduce the capital balance of the mortgage. That wouldnt indicate the DWP 
wanted Mrs H to be able to access any overpayment to be used for purposes other than 
payment of the mortgage. This would potentially support Landmarks decision not to allow 
the DWP overpayments to be borrowed back.
However, that said, Landmark has now agreed that if Mr H and Mrs H get agreement from 
the DWP to the overpayment being borrowed back, it will do so as long as the increased 
borrowing is assessed as being affordable. I have considered this offer.
I would firstly comment that the additional features detailed in the mortgage offer, including 
the borrow back facility, are all subject to agreement by Landmark. A lender is required to 
lend responsibly and that means that it has to ensure that any borrowing is affordable in both 
the short and longer term.
Mr and Mrs H have said that them borrowing back £10,000 from the mortgage shouldnt be 
considered new borrowing, but rather as resetting the mortgage to where it should have 
been. I can see why they think that, but the simple fact is that it is Landmarks money that 
Mr H borrowed and the DWP paid back on Mrs Hs behalf. What they are now asking 
Landmark to do is lend it to them again. Mr H and Mrs H are asking to increase the 
mortgage balance with the associated increase in cost. 
In that situation, it is not unreasonable for Landmark to make sure that the increased 
borrowing will be affordable. In addition, since the original borrowing was agreed, the 
circumstances surrounding the payment of the mortgage have changed significantly. Given 
this, it would be entirely appropriate for affordability to be assessed.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Hs concerns about the ability of the DWP to provide the 
confirmation Landmark has suggested being requested. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
comment on Mr and Mrs Hs opinions about the capability of the staff at the DWP. However, 
I would say that we have seen such consent on other cases we have considered, so it is 
possible to obtain it. Based on the information provided by Mr H and Mrs H, whether the 
DWP would agree is a different matter, but one for it to decide.
Overall, whilst Landmark probably should have given Mr H and Mrs H the option of getting 
consent from the DWP for the borrow back application at an earlier stage, I am satisfied it 
has put forward a reasonable proposal to settle this complaint.  Should Mr and Mrs H want to 
have their borrow back application reconsidered, they should approach the DWP in the first 
instance for the permission needed. If that permission is forthcoming, they should provide it 
to Landmark and then co-operate with the affordability assessment that will still be needed 
for it to consider increasing the borrowing on the mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I find that the offer made by Landmark Mortgages 
Limited during our consideration of the complaint, detailed above, is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman