DRN-3104801
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to apply the new mortgage product 
they had selected for their buy-to-let mortgage, when their previous mortgage product 
ended.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs L applied for a new mortgage product for their buy-to-let 
mortgage as the existing mortgage product was due to expire in May. Mr and Mrs L have 
explained they arranged the new mortgage product in advance as they wanted to avoid the 
mortgage being transferred to the standard variable rate (SVR). 
Unfortunately, due to an error on Barclays part, the new mortgage product was not applied 
to their buy-to-let mortgage when the previous product ended, and the mortgage instead 
reverted to the SVR.
As soon as Mr L became aware of the problem, he contacted Barclays to complain. Mr L has 
explained that he found it difficult to get through to Barclays by phone and he spent several 
hours on hold and waiting to be called back.
Barclays apologised for its error. In order to put matters right it applied the new mortgage 
product and refunded £825 in additional interest Mr and Mrs L had been charged while the 
mortgage was on the SVR. It also offered to pay Mr and Mrs L £200 for the trouble and 
upset its poor service had caused. It subsequently increased this offer to £400.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied with Barclays response and referred the matter to this 
service. Mr L said that when he spoke to Barclays about the problems he had experienced 
one of its representatives had told him that the booking fee of £1,795 he had paid for the 
new mortgage product would be refunded, but Barclays later said this was incorrect and the 
fee would not be refunded.
Mr L said he felt the £400 compensation Barclays had offered was not enough to 
compensate him for the time he had spent trying to get Barclays to sort out its error.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Having done so she said she felt the 
offer Barclays had made was fair and reasonable and she didnt think it needed to do any 
more to put matters right.
She noted that Barclays had refunded the £825 in interest that Mr and Mrs L had been 
overcharged while the mortgage was on the SVR, when it should have been transferred to 
the new mortgage product. 
It had also offered to pay Mr and Mrs L £200 for the trouble and inconvenience its error had 
caused. It subsequently increased this offer to £400. She acknowledged that Mr L said he 
had family commitments that he hadnt been able to meet as he had spent several hours on 
the phone to Barclays trying to sort out its error. But she said she felt the £400 Barclays had 
offered was reasonable for the trouble and upset the matter had caused. 
She noted that Mr and Mrs L had paid a £1,795 application fee for the new mortgage product 
they had selected. Mr L said that during one of the calls he had with Barclays he was told 
this fee would be refunded. The investigator looked into this point. 
She noted that Barclays records showed that when the rate switch application was received 
in May 2021 there was no fee. She queried this with Barclays. It said that as the fee had 
been paid by card its records recorded no fee to ensure that the application fee wasnt 
added to the mortgage balance.
However, she noted that in a call with Mr L on 22 May 2021, Barclays told Mr L several times 
that the application fee had been waived. It appears this was because its representative 
thought the no fee note meant that the application fee had been waived. 
Barclays has already apologised to Mr L for the confusion this incorrect information caused. 
But it said that it was not willing to refund the £1,795 booking fee Mr L had paid for the 
mortgage product. It did, however, increase its offer of compensation from £200 to £400. 
Our investigator said she felt this was fair in the circumstances of this complaint and she 
didnt think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund the product application fee that had 
been correctly charged for the mortgage product Mr and Mrs L had requested.
Mr and Mrs L did not accept our investigators view. Mr L said he didnt feel the investigator 
had looked closely at the failings of how much effort (and therefore inconvenience) I 
suffered trying to get Barclays to confirm that a mistake had been made by them and 
confirmation that it would be put right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Barclays made an error when it failed to apply the new mortgage 
product as soon as Mr and Mrs Ls previous mortgage product ended in May 2021.
Mr and Mrs L had been organised and pro-active in arranging the new mortgage product 
before their existing mortgage product ended with the clear intention that there would be a 
seamless transfer to the new product.
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating to find that, despite their forward planning, 
Barclays had failed to act on their instructions and the mortgage had instead been 
transferred to the SVR.
When a business makes a mistake, as Barclays did here, this service would expect the 
customer to be put back in the position they would have been in, but for the error.
Barclays has done this. It has applied the new mortgage product to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
and refunded the interest it over-charged when the mortgage was on the SVR.
What is in dispute is whether the £400 Barclays has offered to pay Mr and Mrs L for the time 
Mr L spent trying to resolve matters and for the trouble and inconvenience this caused is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr L has said he wants Barclays to refund the £1,795 application fee he paid for the new 
mortgage product. I have very carefully considered the points Mr L has made.I appreciate that Mr L had to spend time chasing Barclays and getting it to put right its error. I 
can also see that Barclays led Mr L to think that it would be refunding the product application 
fee he had paid. It is disappointing that Mr L experienced such poor customer service.
But, as I explained above, where a business makes a mistake, we would expect the 
business to put the customer back in the position they would have been in, but for the 
mistake. As this is the case, I cant reasonably require Barclays to refund the product 
application fee Mr and Mrs L paid as this fee was always payable for the mortgage product 
they had selected.
I note that when this further error came to light Barclays increased the offer it had made to 
compensate Mr and Mrs L for the inconvenience its poor service had caused from £200 to 
£400. I appreciate that Mr L feels that this does not adequately compensate him for the time 
and effort he had to put into getting Barclays to put matters right, but I am satisfied that the 
redress offered by Barclays is fair in the circumstances of this complaint and I cant 
reasonably require Barclays to pay any more.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
simply leave it to Mr and Mrs L to decide if they now wished to accept Barclays offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman