DRN-3070539
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) mis-sold her a 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2013 Mrs S contacted Brightside  a broker  to insure her van. The van was 
modified to enable her to operate her business. In June 2019 Mrs S contacted Brightside to 
say shed found a cheaper policy and didnt want the policy to renew. Brightside said it would 
look to find a more competitive price. The call handler asked Mrs S a number of questions 
about the modifications of the vehicle and contacted an insurer  who I shall refer to as A  
to discuss the application. It explained the modifications the van had and A said it would 
insure it with no uplift in premium. 
Mrs Ss van was later written off in an accident. She claimed on her commercial vehicle 
insurance policy, but A said it wasnt aware of the vans modifications. It also said the policy 
didnt cover modifications. So it said it would only pay out the market value of the van in an 
unmodified state. 
Mrs S complained to Brightside because she said shed lost £8,000. Brightside said it had 
disclosed all the modifications to A. And it said the complaint should be directed to A. It said, 
as an insurance broker, it arranged and managed Mrs Ss insurance policy. But it said it 
didnt have any influence over what A was and wasnt willing to cover, which is why it said it 
referred the modifications to A to assess whether it was willing to cover them. 
Brightside said it relies upon insurers to explain the key limitations and exclusions on an 
insurance policy. And it said A didnt say that it wouldnt cover the modifications. Brightside 
said, had it known this, it would have explained the policys limitation to Mrs S.
However, Brightside accepted there had been a breakdown in communication between itself 
and A. So, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to cover £4,000 of the losses Mrs S says she 
suffered.
Mrs S didnt accept this offer as she maintained shed lost £8,000 due to no fault of her own. 
So she referred her complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first explain that Im only considering Brightsides actions in this decision. A is not a 
party to this complaint and Im unable to comment on whether it acted fairly or not. And this 
includes assessing whether its handled Mrs Ss claim fairly or not.
Mrs S has raised a number of reasons why shes unhappy with whats happened. And 
theres no dispute shes lost out because of whats happened. Ive not commented on each 
and every point shes raised. No discourtesy is meant by that, but this simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
Brightside was acting as a broker in this matter. In arranging the insurance policy for Mrs S, 
its role was to obtain all the relevant information the insurer needed to know so it could make 
a fair presentation of the risk on Mrs Ss behalf. It then needed to explain any key limitations 
of the policy. I shall consider each point separately.
Presentation of the risk
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015, This required Mrs S to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to A so that it had enough information to assess the level of risk it 
was willing to provide and on what terms. It was As responsibility to decide what level of risk 
it was willing to cover and set the terms of the insurance policy setting out what the policy did 
and didnt cover. I cant hold Brightside responsible for anything A may or may not have 
done. As Mrs Ss broker, it was Brightsides responsibility to make this presentation on her 
behalf. Im satisfied that it fairly did so in this case.
The issue in question in this matter is that A says it wasnt aware of the vans modifications. 
But I dont agree. Ive listened to the telephone call for when Brightside referred the risk to A 
and it clearly set out all the modifications. So Im satisfied it did disclose this to A. 
A has set out Brightside were responsible for creating the paperwork and has highlighted 
that the statement of fact didnt include the modifications. But Brightside has explained that it 
wasnt able to input the modifications into the online application as this would have resulted 
in the insurer automatically declining the application, which is why it said it telephoned A to 
disclose the modifications. Im persuaded by what Brightside has said here as a plausible 
and persuasive statement. So I think it has acted fairly in this respect.
I accept and agree that Brightside should have added a note onto the insurance policy 
internal notes for A to understand that the van was modified. But I dont think this is why the 
claim value was reduced. Ultimately, A didnt cover the cost of the modifications because 
they simply werent covered under the terms of the policy. And this would have been the 
case whether Brightside added this note or not.
Highlighting of key features of the insurance policy
As a broker, it was Brightsides responsibility to highlight all the key features of the insurance 
policy. A has set out that modifications arent covered under the terms of the insurance 
policy. This would be considered a key limitation of the insurance policy. But I also need to 
consider whether Brightside should have been reasonably aware of this limitation. 
Ive listened to the telephone call Brightside had with A when it referred the modifications as 
part of the insurance application. As call handler explained it would cover the vehicle with no 
premium uplift on standard terms. From listening to that telephone call, I dont think there 
would have been anything to notify Brightside that A wouldnt cover the vans modifications. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable for Brightside to have understood from what A said, 
that Mrs Ss modifications would have been covered under the terms of the insurance policy. 
I think it was fair for Brightside to say A should have explained on that telephone call that it 
wouldnt have covered the modifications. As I said above, I cant hold Brightside responsible 
for this.Summary
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mrs S has found herself in. It seems she has lost out 
due to no fault of her own. But I dont think I can reasonably hold Brightside responsible for 
this. I think its offer to cover more than £4,000 of the losses shes suffered is more than fair. 
And I dont think it needs to do anything further.
Mrs S didnt accept my provisional decision. She said she was concerned that our 
investigation was hindered because Brightside hadnt initially provided the telephone call it 
had with A. She said she was still at a financial loss and thinks A has lied to her. She also 
said Brightside had effectively admitted there had been a failure in communications. And she 
said shes raised a new complaint about A. 
Brightside didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A hasnt provided me with anything new to think about. So I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. I note she says 
Brightside hadnt provided the telephone call it had with A previously. But it did provide this 
telephone call with its original submission. So it hasnt withheld this information.
I also note she says Brightside had admitted there had been a failure in communication. But 
its response to her complaint sets out that it doesnt admit liability and its offer of £4,000 
was a goodwill gesture. My provisional decision sets out why I think this is a fair offer for any 
errors Brightside may have made and I dont have anything further to add to what I 
previously set out.
Ultimately, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman