DRN-1984522
The complaint
Dr Ws complaint is about the handling of a claim made under his mobile phone insurance 
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. Any references to Assurant in this 
decision should be read as including those agents. 
What happened
On 3 February 2020, Dr W made a claim under his policy, as he had damaged his phone 
screen. Assurant accepted the claim and arranged for a replacement phone to be provided 
to Dr W the next day. However, Dr W was not happy with the replacement phone and 
complained to Assurant on 13 February 2020. He said there were scuffs and scratches on 
the screen; parts of the screen were not responding to touch; and the battery didnt hold 
enough charge to last all day. Dr W said he understood hed be given a refurbished phone, 
and not a new one, but the terms of the policy said hed be given a phone of similar quality. 
He didnt think the replacement phone was of similar quality and asked for it to be replaced.
Assurant agreed to replace the phone. It collected the phone from Dr W on 26 February 
2020 and simultaneously exchanged it for another one. Dr W contacted Assurant again the 
next day, as he said the battery on the new phone was less than 90% capacity. Assurant 
agreed to replace the phone again. The third replacement phone was delivered on 11 March 
2020 but this phone was locked to an overseas network, and wouldnt recognise Dr Ws SIM 
card. Assurant told Dr W it could send another replacement phone or it would provide a cash 
settlement, so Dr W could replace his phone himself. Dr W says he had no choice but to 
replace his phone from the only retailer he could find still open that evening, as the phone 
was not usable at all and he needed a reliable phone urgently for work and could not wait. 
He spent £1,049 on a replacement phone (which Ill call model A) and wants Assurant to 
reimburse him. Dr W is also very unhappy with the service provided and says he would have 
been better to pay for the screen of his phone to be repaired by the manufacturer, instead he 
has been provided with two phones of lesser quality and was put to considerable trouble. 
Assurant says it acted reasonably as it bypassed its normal process (which would be to 
require Dr W to return any faulty phone for inspection before providing another replacement) 
each time, as it knew Dr W couldnt be without a phone because of his job. However, 
Assurant also accepts that it did not provide satisfactory replacements for Dr Ws phone. 
While it says the batteries had adequate capacity, it nevertheless accepts they were not 
satisfactory replacements.  It also accepts that the third replacement was locked to an 
overseas network and therefore unusable for Dr W. Assurant apologised and offered Dr W 
£150 compensation for the trouble caused to him and £485 cash in lieu of settlement, being 
the price of a refurbished model of his insured phone.
Two of our investigators looked into the matter. The first said that though Assurant had 
agreed to provide replacements quicker than normally would have been the case, it provided 
three faulty phones. Dr W needed a reliable phone and was inconvenienced in having to 
accommodate three deliveries. He was satisfied that Dr W would not have had to buy a new 
phone, if Assurant had dealt with the claim properly and he was denied the opportunity to 
find the best deal. He therefore recommended that Assurant pay Dr W the full cost of the 
replacement phone he bought, (i.e. £1,049). 
Assurant didnt accept the investigators assessment. It said the phone Dr W bought was an 
upgrade as it is a newer model; and the policy specifically excludes any losses that arise 
from the claim, so does not cover lost work opportunities, as a result of being without a 
phone while a claim is ongoing. Assurant says there are a number of retailers that sell the 
insured phone, which Dr W could have purchased his replacement from, so it does not 
accept that he was forced into buying an upgraded device and does not agree it should 
cover the cost of that. Assurant says the compensation offered and bypassing its warranty 
process twice, suitably addresses the errors it made and does not agree that anything 
further is due.
The second investigator asked for further information about the phone that Dr W had bought. 
He told the investigator his insured phone was no longer available, it had been replaced by  
another model of the same make (which Ill call model B). He said he had bought the pro 
version of the upgraded model (model A).  
The second investigator said that model A appeared to be a significant upgrade and there 
was no convincing evidence that this was the only option open to Dr W. She said model B 
(the non-pro version of model A) which was still an upgrade on his insured phone is currently 
available from the same retailer he had bought his phone from for £599. She therefore 
recommended that Assurant pay £599 as cash in lieu of settlement (less the £485 already 
paid).
Dr W doesnt accept the second investigators assessment. He says model B is not in fact an 
upgrade for his phone, as it didnt have some of the features his insured phone had and was 
in fact a different cheaper line of phones, rather than a successor model. In addition, it is a 
different size so would not have fitted his accessories. The only phones available to him 
were model A and model B and he does not think it was unreasonable for him to have 
bought model A in the circumstances. Finally, he says model B was priced at £729 at the 
time he bought the replacement (and not £599, which is todays price), so the amount 
proposed is unfair anyway on this basis. 
As the investigators were unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant had an obligation to provide a suitable replacement phone. It accepts that it did not 
do so. Assurant says the policy doesnt cover consequential financial losses. However, this 
is not a claim for consequential loss. Where something has gone wrong, I have to power to 
award compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and any financial loss 
arising from that wrongdoing. Dr W says he was caused considerable inconvenience by 
having three faulty phones delivered and not receiving an appropriate replacement phone.  
I agree it was reasonable for Dr W to go and buy a phone, having had a third faulty one 
delivered to him and being without a working phone at all. It was not reasonable to expect 
him to wait for another to be delivered by Assurant. I also accept there was probably limited 
choice for him that late in the day. 
Assurant agreed to reimburse him the cost of a replacement of his insured phone and said 
the same model was available at a number of retailers. Dr W says the same model was not available at the only store he could get to on the evening 
in question. There is no other evidence to support this, other than his testimony but I am 
prepared to give him the benefit of the doubt about this. If I accept that the insured phone 
model was not available to him, it follows that I do not agree that it is reasonable that 
Assurant only pay the cost of a refurbished version of his insured phone. This is because he 
was put to greater expense as he had to buy a replacement at short notice, due to 
Assurants failure to fulfil the terms of the insurance contract with him. 
However, I do not think it is unreasonable to expect the full cost of a brand new significantly 
higher specification phone than the original insured phone. 
Dr W has confirmed that model B was also available when he bought model A. In his initial 
complaint to us he said the phone I was replacing was no longer available and had been 
replaced by  [model B]. I was unable to find a retailer open past 1800 that still sold  [the 
insured phone model]. I bought the new phone from[retailer] and the receipt is attached. 
The receipt doesnt give any details of the model or make of the phone. Dr Ws email implies 
that he bought model B, which he said was the replacement model for his insured phone. It 
doesnt mention that he in fact bought model A.
Dr W now says that model B would have effectively been a downgrade on his insured 
phone, as it lacks some of the same features. I have not seen any convincing evidence to 
support this. 
Model A was significantly more expensive than the replacement value of Dr Ws insured 
phone and also significantly more than the next upgrade. Overall, I do not think I can 
reasonably ask Assurant to reimburse the cost of £1,049, when the next upgrade of Dr Ws 
insured phone was also available at much less cost.  
Model B, which would seem to have been a reasonable replacement for Dr Ws insured 
phone cost £729 when it was released in late 2019. It is currently for sale, at the same 
retailer Dr W went to, for £599. Dr W says it was still £729 in March 2020 but Ive not been 
provided with any independent evidence to support this. In the absence of any other 
evidence about this, I do not consider I can ask Assurant to pay the higher amount. Overall, 
it seems to me reasonable that Assurant pay a total of £599 for the replacement of Dr Ws 
phone. As it has paid £485 already paid, Assurant only now has to pay the difference. 
Interest should be added at our usual rate, on the balance due.  
I also agree that some additional compensation is warranted. This was a straightforward 
claim and should not have required three different deliveries, which would have caused 
trouble to Dr W. He then had to go and buy a replacement, as he could not be without a 
working phone. I agree that the £150 already offered is reasonable. It is not clear if this has 
already been paid. If it has, then no further payment is required. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to pay     Dr W the following: 
A total of £599 in settlement of his claim. As £485 has already been paid, it only 
needs to now pay the balance. Interest at 8% simple per annum should be added to 
the amount now due, from the date Dr W bought his phone to the date of 
reimbursement. 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his 
claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman