DRN-3771036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling), wont refund the money they 
lost after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) investment scam whereby 
they sent money to an account held at Starling.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In summary, Mr H fell victim to an investment scam with Mr H making five payments / 
transfers of £10,000 on 9 September 2021 (totalling £50,000) from his joint bank account 
(held with Mrs H), to an account held at Starling.
While a joint account, as it was Mr H who fell victim to the scam, and for ease, Ill refer solely 
to Mr H from here on.
After the scam was revealed, Mr H complained to his Bank and also raised concerns about 
Starling, where the receiving bank account was held. 
Mr Hs Bank and Starling are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made, which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. 
Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or Receiving Firm, they may be required 
to reimburse the customer. And the customer may also be required to share some 
responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also failed to meet their requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code.
Ultimately, Mr H was reimbursed 50% of his loss from his Bank  with it advising that Mr H 
should share some responsibility for the loss as it considered he hadnt met his requisite 
level of care under the CRM Code when he made the payments.
Starling in its capacity as the Receiving Firm didnt consider it was liable for any loss Mr H 
incurred.
Mr H brought the complaint about both his Bank and Starling to our service.
Mr Hs complaint about his Bank, as the Sending Firm, was looked at under a separate 
complaint reference. In that case our Investigator concluded that Mr Hs Banks decision to 
reimburse 50% of the loss was fair. 
In this case, Mr H says Starling, as the Receiving Firm, should also share some 
responsibility. Mr H wants it to refund him the remaining loss as he considers one of its 
accounts was opened and being used fraudulently.
Starling in its final response letter to Mr H didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Mr H 
incurred. It short it advised that any claims received from UK banks are fully investigated in 
line with the process and procedures required of it by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
It also explained in response to Mr Hs concerns it had failed to perform Anti Money 
laundering and Know Your Customer checks, that it met its requirements as set out by the 
FCA and that it continually monitors accounts and transactions to protect against any 
potential fraud and it has systems in placed in accordance with industry practice. It 
considered it was fully compliant with the relevant laws and its regulatory obligations.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend that Starling needed to do 
anything further. Overall, they were satisfied Starling had met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for Mr Hs losses as it couldnt reasonably 
have done more to prevent Mr Hs loss. They were also satisfied it had responded 
appropriately to the notification of fraud. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Starling  as the Receiving Firm 
of the account where Mr H made payment to. Mr Hs complaint about his Bank was looked at 
separately under a different complaint reference. 
I would also like to add at this point that Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and 
the responses briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the 
matter here  which is to determine whether Starling should have done more to prevent 
Mr Hs loss. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im not upholding his complaint about Starling. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam, but I dont believe Starling has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Starling has met its 
requirements under the CRM Code and therefore isnt liable for any of Mr Hs remaining 
losses. Ill explain why. 
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Starling, are required to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to 
comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing of 
terrorism requirements.Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Starling has signed up 
to. The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the 
following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Starling met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Starling opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Starling any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Starlings acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Hs 
loss. I would like to point out to Mr H at this point, that while Starling has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and Starling has provided that which is necessary 
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share 
any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any investigation and 
action Starling subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mr H, I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.
Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
However, our service only has powers to consider complaints about Receiving Firms since 
31 January 2019  and we cant consider any acts or omissions carried out by a Receiving 
Firm that occurred before this date. That means if the account was opened before this date, I 
am unable to comment or make a finding as to whether I consider a Firm may have failed in 
its obligations in any way.
In this case, the beneficiary account was opened prior to 2019, so I am unable to comment 
on or make a finding about the account opening process  as the act of Starling opening the 
account happened prior to when our service had the power to look into complaints about 
Receiving Firms. However, Starling still provided information about how the beneficiary 
account was opened and the documentation it obtained at the time. While I am unable to 
comment or make a finding here, for Mr Hs benefit, Starling has said the account was 
opened in accordance with its procedures.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Starling as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payments Mr H made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Starling might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.
For Mr Hs benefit, Starling wouldnt have known that the incoming credits to the account 
were as a result of fraud and that its account was being used fraudulently. Personal and 
business accounts receive incoming credits, and in this case, I think it is reasonable to say 
that there was nothing to indicate to Starling that there was anything suspicious going on 
with the beneficiary account.   So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Starling has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think Starling ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it 
to have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Hs loss in this way 
either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Starling took the 
necessary actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds 
remained in the account that could be recovered as they had already been moved on / 
withdrawn from the account.
I note Starling froze the account initially, and after receiving a response from its customer, 
took the decision to unfreeze the account. It then carried out a further review and took further 
actions which I am unable to disclose to Mr H. 
Importantly  when Starling was first notified that one of its accounts was potentially being 
used for fraudulent purposes it took the necessary actions  but unfortunately Mr Hs funds 
had already been moved on by that time. Starling werent required to look further into where 
the funds had been moved on to. It was only required to look into whether any funds 
remained in the beneficiary account at the time that could then be recovered. 
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Starling responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice 
Standards. And I dont think I can fairly say Starling didnt do enough to respond to the 
alleged APP fraud.
Overall, while Mr H was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Starling met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Starling couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Hs money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Mr H for the remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman