DRN-3951920
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a hire agreement taken out with Arval UK Limited (Arval) for a van.
What happened
In September 2018 Arval entered into an agreement with a sole trader which I will call J. 
Mrs B was noted in the hire agreement as the owner of the business.
Arval is pursuing Mrs B for the debt under that agreement.
When Mrs B first complained to us she indicated that shed been in a business and personal 
relationship with someone Ill call Mr M. Js business was initially run from Mrs Bs home 
address, but when J grew bigger she signed a lease for J for new premises. Mrs B explained 
shed signed the lease for the premises because Mr M could not drive. She also indicated 
that around the same time she also signed the hire agreement on behalf of J for the van. 
She did this because Mr M was registered blind, and shed be driving the van.  Mrs B and Mr 
M split up. Mr M moved out and started a new business with a new name, but Mrs B kept 
and used the van.
Later, Mrs B told us shed never applied for the hire agreement and neither had she ever 
signed it, Mr M had done all of this without her consent or knowledge. Further, when the van 
was delivered to her home address, she signed the delivery note, but shed only done this 
because Mr M was not at home at the time. She also told us that, in any event, the 
contracting party here is J, as she is not the owner of J she cannot be held to account for the 
contract as she did not contract, J did. 
Mrs B initially told us that she worked for J, later she also told us she was involved in J but 
not in the financial side of things. After this Mrs B told us she was not involved in J at all.
The payments for the van originally came out of an account in the name of J but there came 
a point when the direct debits stopped, so she made the payments from her own personal 
account instead. Mrs B said Arval had asked her to sign a new agreement in December 
2019, but she never did this. She also told us that the van was not a suitable vehicle for her, 
her preference was for a car. Therefore shed asked Arval to change the van for a car, but it 
would not. Mrs B continued to use the van because she could not afford to both pay for the 
van and also pay for a car at the same time.
Mrs B added that Mr M had taken out other credit agreements in her name without her 
permission. She told us she found out about this in December 2019 and had contacted the 
police and Arval at this point. But Arval would not help her.  It merely offered early 
termination of the agreement, but this would have involved her making a one-off payment 
and she could not afford to do this. She told us the Crown Prosecution Service did not 
pursue any criminal prosecution against Mr M in relation to these matters.
Mrs B told us that Mr M had regularly intercepted her mail before she got to see it because 
for a number of years he lived with her at her home address.
Arvals stance was that it entered into the agreement with Mrs B trading as J after first 
carrying out appropriate checks to verify her identity, (via her driving licence) and her ability 
to repay the credit. The application for the hire agreement was made online. Repayments 
were made at first from an account which appeared, on the face of it, to be an account that 
only Mrs B had control of. Arval also pointed out that it had sent monthly statements for the 
agreement addressed to Mrs B to Mrs Bs home address. 
Arval indicated that it regretted to hear of the dispute between Mrs B and Mr M. However, it 
considered this to be a civil matter between Mrs B and Mr M which did not impact on the 
validity of its contract with Mrs B. It offered again to terminate the agreement early should 
Mrs B wish to take this option. It noted that its records showed that Mrs B had not 
complained to it until January 2021.  
For all of these reasons Arval was not prepared to do anything further.
Dissatisfied with Arvals response Mrs B complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Arval appeared to accept our investigators recommendation, Mrs B did not. In summary in 
her response Mrs B repeated her previous stance. She mentioned that when J was first set 
up she was not working for it, rather she was working elsewhere for a third party. Mrs Bs 
position is that Mr M set up J using credit cards which he applied for in her name without her 
knowledge. She thought it was significant that the application for the hire agreement was 
made online as this made it easier for someone to pretend to be her and apply for the 
agreement with her details.
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
Having considered the available evidence, I was not minded to uphold the complaint, but as 
my reasons for this were not entirely the same as our investigators I thought it was fair to let 
the parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) 
before I made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision last month and 
Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final 
decision.
What Ive decided and why
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B and Arval disagree about many of the key issues here, where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
J is a sole trader, therefore it did not have to register on any public register when it set up. I 
recognise that Mrs Bs stance is that she did not set up J, Mr M did. As a starting point I think 
Mrs B is correct to say that only J entered into the contract therefore it follows that only J 
should be liable for the contract as only J accepted Arvals offer to contract. 
Further, both parties agree it was J who entered into the agreement with Arval and that is 
what the contract says. Although the contract also says that the owner of J is Mrs B. Mrs B 
says this is not the case, but her identity document was used in applying for the agreement 
on behalf of J, I recognise that she says she did not provide this information but given that 
Mrs B told us she signed the hire agreement for the van I am not persuaded by this. Further, 
the payments came out of an account that she appeared to run on behalf of J. On the face of 
it, at least, it appears that Mrs B set up J and was the owner of J.Mrs B has provided inconsistent information about her role in J, she has told us variously, 
she was not involved in J, she did work for J but only as an employee and that sometimes 
she acted on behalf of J as if she was its owner as I mention below. This inconsistency 
impacts on the weight I feel able to give what she says on this point.
On occasion Mrs B acted as if she was the owner of J, the business was run at first from her 
home address. Moreover, when J moved to business premises, according to Mrs B, she 
signed the lease, which Id not have expected her to have done if she was not the owner of 
J. Although it appears, with hindsight she regretted signing the lease for J. 
Mrs B told us that the reason shed signed the lease for J was because Mr M could not drive, 
but I do not find that a persuasive reason for her to sign a lease for a company she says she 
dd not own and was not involved with. 
In addition, when she first complained to us she told us she did sign the hire agreement for J 
as shed be driving the van, which again Id not have expected her to have done if she was 
not the owner of J. 
Also once she split with Mr M, Mrs B tells us she kept the van, if the van was being hired by 
a third party who had no connection to her, or for which she was only an employee, I would 
not have expected Mrs B to have kept the van and kept paying for it. Moreover, at this point 
she has told us Mr M was no longer living with her, so it is difficult to understand why she still 
had possession of the van in any event.
I note that Mrs Bs position is also that Mr M set up J using money he obtained via credit 
cards he applied for in her name. But Mrs B has not demonstrated this.
It appears that Mrs B became aware that the credit card accounts had been opened in her 
name in December 2019. Mrs B also indicates that it was at this time she found out that the 
hire agreement had been taken out in her name. Mrs B tells that she complained to Arval at 
this point. But Arvals records which I have no reason to doubt show that at first, in March 
2020 Mrs B just asked if she could change the date of the direct debit payment. That does 
not tally with her account of events. 
Further, I can see that according to Arvals records she did tell it later in March 2020 that Mr 
M took out the agreement not her. Then it was not until November 2020 that she contacted it 
again to ask how the account was set up. Id have expected her to have acted more quickly 
since she was being held to account for a debt she said she did not owe. Her delay in 
complaining is not consistent with her latest version of events.
It is not clear when J was set up, as I have already mentioned. In any event, even if Mrs B 
was working for a third party when J was set up, that does not mean she could not have set 
up J at the same time. 
In the circumstances, I am persuaded that it was Mrs B who set up and owned J.
Even if I was not persuaded that Mrs B set up and owned J Id still think it was fair and 
reasonable for Arval to be able to hold her responsible for the hire agreement if Mrs B 
behaved in such a way that she held herself out as being the owner of J. That is if she gave 
Arval the impression she owned J and she intended to do this in order to get it to contract 
with her. 
I think it is significant that Mrs B has given two very different versions of the same events. At 
first, she indicated that she signed the agreement for the van for a number of reasons, 
including because she would be driving the van while conducting Js business and because 
Mr M couldnt drive due to his eyesight. It seems that on reflection she regretted doing this 
but that does not mean she did not do it. And its difficult to understand why she told us this 
in the first instance if it was not correct. Moreover, I think when parties sign a contract they 
can fairly and reasonably be taken as having intended to be bound by the terms of that contract. Therefore it would be inappropriate to prevent Arval from relying on the terms of the 
contract if Mrs B signed it in these circumstances.
Later, Mrs B said she only signed the delivery note for the van. In particular, she indicated 
that she had done this simply because Mr M was not around to sign for it when it arrived. 
This is not consistent with her first account of events.  
The inconsistency around Mrs Bs recollections of events impacts on the weight I am able to 
place on her accounts of what happened. 
In all the circumstances, I prefer the first version of events she gave us, before she might 
have realised that by telling us she signed the hire agreement she weakened the strength of 
her complaint.
Moreover, Mrs B told us she signed the lease for premises for J, which goes to show that on 
least one other occasion she entered into a contract on behalf of J. She has not given a 
persuasive explanation for why she did this rather than Mr M, if he was the owner of J.
I do accept that because the application for the hire agreement was made online, this does 
allow for the possibility that someone other than Mrs B contracted with Arval. But I note that, 
as I have already mentioned it was her details that were provided for the credit check, her 
identification documents that were provided to support this application. Moreover monthly 
statements were sent to her address and yet she does not appear to have queried these 
statements. I take on board Mrs B told us Mr M intercepted her mail. But she also told us 
from October 2018 she was working solely for J. So she would have been at home it seems 
when this mail came. This all suggests that it was Mrs B who entered into the hire 
agreement with Arval either as the owner of J or that she held herself out to Arval as being 
the owner of J.
Im not persuaded that Arval asked Mrs B to sign another agreement after she complained to 
it. Why would it need to do this when it already had an agreement which it could enforce 
against her? Arval simply had nothing to gain by doing this.
In all of the circumstances I am persuaded that it was Mrs B who entered into the hire 
agreement with J. That being so I have no fair and reasonable basis for saying Arval must 
not pursue her for the debt. It also means that I dont need to give any further consideration 
to her point that it was Mr M who signed the hire agreement pretending to be her. I say this 
because these arguments fall away as I have found on balance she did sign the agreement 
herself.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited the parties to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do that. Both 
responded. Mrs B repeated her previous stance and in particular she put emphasis again on 
her stance that she merely worked for J. Arval said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Mrs B and Arval for their responses to my provisional decision.
Ive received no substantive new information in response to my provisional decision. It 
follows that I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons that I did in it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman