DRN-3170546
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the credit limit 
on his account.
What happened
Mr E received a letter from Barclays informing him that his account was being reviewed and 
asking him to provide verification of his income. The letter also explained that Barclays may 
choose to reduce the credit limit available to him on the account following the review.
Mr E couldnt provide the verification of his income to Barclays in the format that Barclays 
requested, but he did send information to Barclays in a different format, and he also provided 
evidence of his substantial savings balance. However, Barclays did subsequently make the 
decision to reduce the credit limit on Mr Es account from £10,000 to £250. Mr E wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Es complaint, but they noted that Mr E hadnt provided the income 
verification information in the format theyd requested and which they considered acceptable, 
and they also noted that they retained the right to reduce the credit limit available to an 
account holder at their discretion. So, they didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by reducing the credit limit on Mr Es account. Mr E remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must be frustrating for Mr E to have had the credit limit on his 
account reduced from £10,000 to £250, especially as Mr E feels that he remains in the 
financial position to be able to afford a credit account with a £10,000 credit limit.
However, its within the terms of the credit account that Barclays can reduce the credit limit 
available on an account at their discretion. And, while it can be the case that an unfair 
outcome can occur following a business applying account terms correctly, I dont feel that 
thats the case in this instance. 
Mr E has held this credit account for a considerable period, and during that time the 
obligations of Barclays as a credit provider have changed. For instance, theres a much 
greater regulatory focus in recent years on credit providers ensuring that credit accounts are 
affordable for the account holder, and this includes that a credit provider must be satisfied 
that an account holder will reasonably be able to afford any monthly repayments that may 
become due on their account should the maximum amount of available credit be utilised.
Mr E may point to the balance of his savings, which currently would be sufficient to enable 
Mr E to comfortably repay any monthly payments which may become due on his credit 
account with a £10,000 credit limit.
But savings arent generally used to assess credit affordability, and this is because future 
events may take place that result in those savings being spent. And so, its incumbent on a 
credit provider such as Barclays to ensure that an account holder can afford to make the 
monthly payments that may become due on the account based on the regular income of that 
account holder. And, where a credit provider cant reasonably confirm that an account holder 
would be able to meet such potential repayments, it would be expected that that credit 
provider would reduce the amount of credit available to that customer.
This is what Barclays have done here, and I dont feel that I can reasonably state that 
Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr E by doing so. 
Im aware that Mr E feels that Barclays asked for his income verification information to be 
provided in a format that it was difficult for Mr E to comply with. But having reviewed 
Barclays requirements in this regard, while I acknowledge that those requirements may have 
been inconvenient for Mr E, I dont feel that they were unreasonable.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr E in how 
theyve reduced the credit limit available to him on his account here, and it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at 
this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr E was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman