DRN-2862820
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T are unhappy Countrywide Assured Plc declined Mr Ts critical illness 
insurance claim. 
For ease, Ill refer to Mr T throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr T took out a life and critical illness policy with Countrywide in 2003. Sadly, in August 2013 
Mr T was rushed to hospital and stayed in a cardiac care unit. Later that year, Mr T made a 
critical illness claim under his policy for a heart attack. 
In 2014 Countrywide declined the claim. It wasnt satisfied Mr T had suffered typical chest 
pain and it said Mr Ts condition was more in keeping with his diagnosis of cardiomyopathy 
because the angiogram showed he had normal coronary arteries. And his troponin rise was 
more likely to have been caused by ventricular tachycardia. 
In 2016 the policy was cancelled because Mr T couldnt afford the premiums. In 2019 Mr T 
contacted Countrywide again to dispute the claim decision it made in 2014. He that he was 
severely ill during his time in hospital in 2013 and showed common signs of a heart attack 
and heart failure. He said he suffered severe chest pain and breathing difficulties and his 
hospital records showed common complications which can be linked to myocardial infarction 
and a heart attack. 
Countrywide reviewed the claim but didnt overturn its previous decision. It said Mr T had 
suffered a cardiac related event in 2013 but there wasnt enough evidence that it was a heart 
attack that resulted in the death of any heart muscle due to lack of blood flow because the 
angiogram showed normal coronary arteries. It said that Mr Ts consultant in 2013 defined 
his condition as dilated cardiomyopathy so it couldnt accept the claim. 
Mr T was unhappy with this decision, so he made a complaint. He said he met the definition 
of heart attack in the policy but that this was so narrowly defined and decided on probability, 
that its very difficult to claim on the policy. He said his illness was so serious he wouldve 
died without intervention. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr Ts illness in 2013 
hadnt met the definition of a heart attack within the terms and conditions of his policy. So, he 
didnt think Countrywide had unfairly declined the claim. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he collapsed in 2013 with 
severe chest pain, his hospital admission notes mention heart failure and his consultant 
diagnosed him with dilated cardiomyopathy in November 2013. Mr T says Countrywide 
based its decision in 2014 on the diagnosis given by his consultant but shouldve reviewed 
the full medical records from the hospital. Mr T added that myocardial infarction remains the 
most common cause of heart failure and has provided medical notes and papers which 
suggest his symptoms in 2013 can be related to and/or are complications of myocardial 
infarction. And Mr T referred to a case study on this services website which he feels 
supports his belief that his claim should be accepted.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr T, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for him and his wife. 
While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say Countrywide has treated him unfairly. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr T met the above definitions. Instead, I have to consider whether Countrywide 
assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and opinions it was 
presented with. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied that it 
did. 
I would also like to make it clear that each complaint is decided by our service on its own 
facts and merits and Im not bound by what our service might have found in other cases, 
whether similar to this one or not.
Mr Ts policy says that for a heart attack claim to be accepted it must meet the following 
definition;
The death of a portion of the heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has
resulted in all of the following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
. Typical chest pain
. New characteristic electrocardiographic changes
. The characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes, troponins or other biochemical markers.
Where all of the above shows a definite acute myocardial infarction. Other acute coronary 
syndromes, including but not limited to angina, are not covered under this definition.
Applying specific definitions and conditions such as this is standard practice for these types 
of policies. Its up to Countrywide which definitions of a critical illness its willing to cover 
through its underwriting. This policy covers a large variety of different illnesses, so I dont 
think it is unreasonable for the specifics of each condition to be explained in detail.Mr T said his condition should be covered under the above definition and has provided 
medical documentation he says supports his complaint that he has suffered a heart attack. 
He feels the medical documentation he has provided shows that his illness is linked to an 
acute myocardial infarction. He has added that Countrywides Chief Medical Officers (CMO) 
opinion shouldnt be given more weight than his medical notes. 
Countrywides CMOs have said that Mr T hasnt met the above definition of a heart attack. 
They said there were no acute evolutionary electrocardiographic changes and Mr T had 
normal coronary arteries. The CMOs said the left and right ventricular dysfunction wasnt the 
sort of regional abnormality you see with myocardial infarction. They added that the report in 
relation to Mr Ts MRI scan said the insertion point for the right ventricular was more likely to 
be myopathic and the high haemoglobin levels Mr T suffered from arent used to decide if 
someone has had a myocardial infarction or not. 
Having considered all the medical information carefully, Im more persuaded by the medical 
evidence provided by Countrywides CMO. He has explained medically why Mr T hasnt met 
the above definition and why Mr T hasnt, in his opinion, suffered an acute myocardial 
infarction. I note Mr T has provided medical journals discussing what the most common 
causes of myocardial infarction are, but I havent found these as persuasive because they 
arent specific to his case. And I note a treating consultant or doctor hasnt provided 
persuasive and/or specific medical evidence on Mr Ts behalf that he has suffered a heart 
attack in line with the above definition. 
I note Mr T has said that he was told in 2013 he may need a heart transplant and he was too 
ill to have a pacemaker or defibrillator. He says if any of these operations had gone ahead 
his claim wouldve been accepted. Ive reviewed the policy, but I cant see that a pacemaker 
or defibrillator being fitted wouldve been covered under this policy. I note Mr T is covered for 
a major organ transplant, but he hasnt had that operation nor was it decided that he should 
be placed on a waiting list for that transplant. 
How the claims were handled
Mr T says Countrywide only assessed his claim in 2013 on very small amounts of the 
medical evidence which prejudiced its decision. And due to the time thats passed, he cant 
provide specific evidence from a treating doctor. 
Ive seen requests for further information from Mr Ts medical records were requested in 
2013 and 2014 so Countrywide could assess whether Mr T had met the above criteria. 
Countrywide has said the later request was cancelled after this information was supplied by 
Mr T. Having seen the file, I dont believe Countrywide was wrong to decline the claim in 
2013 or that it came to an unfair conclusion. So, Im satisfied it didnt unfairly reject the claim 
in 2013 or when it reconsidered this information again with the further evidence Mr T 
supplied in 2019.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman