DRN-3710707
The complaint
Mrs L complains that HL Partnership Limited (HLP) didnt sell her and her late husband the 
joint life assurance policy they asked for. Shes explained she has lost out as a result. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were advised by HLP to take out a new joint life assurance policy when they 
increased their mortgage borrowing in 2017. It was set up with an initial sum assured of 
£284,793 which reduced in line with their mortgage and point of sale documents point out it 
was to cover the mortgage should either of you die during the 30 year term.
Mr L sadly passed away in 2020. When Mrs L went to claim on the policy to pay off the 
mortgage she was told that she wasnt a joint policy holder. This meant that the policy 
proceeds had to go to Mr Ls estate and she needed to get a Grant of Probate before the 
policy could pay out. Mrs L has explained that because the money was paid into the estate, 
she ended up receiving less than the full amount, meaning there was a shortfall as Mr L had 
debts that needed to be settled.
HLP initially said that it felt there were system issues and it contacted the policy provider 
about this. HLP said it was clear that the intention was for both Mr L and Mrs L to be joint 
policyholders. HLP said to the provider that it wasnt clearly set out that it was only Mr L that 
was the policyholder. The policy provider explained it set the policy up in line with the 
application it had received from HLP.
HLP then said to Mrs L that there was likely a contract formed between herself and Mr L 
when taking out the policy which means that the mortgage shouldve been paid off with the 
funds. It said that it sent the relevant paperwork and it wasnt responsible for the situation 
she is now in.
I sent my first provisional decision on 22 July 2022 and my second provisional decision, with 
amended redress, on 2 September 2022. For clarity, the relevant extracts are below:
Relevant extract from first provisional decision:
Ive reached a different outcome to our Investigator and Ill explain why below. I first want to 
set out that this is a complaint from Mrs L  an individual and customer of HLP. Im not a 
probate lawyer and this complaint isnt from the estate of the late Mr L. My role here is to 
determine what is fair and reasonable in this complaint. Its not disputed that because of the 
way the policy was set up, the life assurance money went through Mr Ls estate and Mrs L 
has ended up being entitled to less. So, my role is to determine whether HLP is responsible 
for the shortfall.
What shouldve happened
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs L wanted joint life cover. That is, a policy that pays out to the 
other if one of them should die. In this case, Mr L sadly passed away, and I offer my sincere 
condolences to Mrs L for her loss.
Had the policy been set up correctly, the policy shouldve paid out to Mrs L directly within a 
month of when she made a claim. She wouldve had the total claim value which was in 
excess of £276,000 at the time Mr L passed away. At this point shed have repaid her 
mortgage - which had a balance of around £265,000 - and have a small amount left over for 
her to use to support herself and her children.
What happened
The policy HLP sold was a policy with both Mr L and Mrs L as lives assured and it would pay 
out on first death which was what was needed. However, it was written that only Mr L was 
the policy owner. There was no beneficiary under that policy and it wasnt written into trust - 
likely because of HLPs own misunderstanding of the policy as it has said that it believed it to 
be a joint policy.
What this meant is that when Mr L passed away, the policy provider would only pay out to 
the legal representative of his estate. So, Mrs L had to get a Grant of Probate. Once this was 
obtained, the funds were released.
As the funds were paid out to Mrs L, as executor of the estate of her late husband, there 
were other liabilities to cover with the funds. Mrs L has provided accounts to show that she is 
entitled to, as beneficiary of her late husbands estate, £231,370.38.
Ive seen arguments from both parties around the way the estate was settled, but this isnt 
something Im looking into. This isnt a complaint from the estate and its not within my remit 
to determine which creditors should be paid out of any money within an estate. What I can 
see is that Mr and Mrs L asked for a policy to protect them in this exact scenario, to ensure 
they could repay the mortgage. They paid premiums to ensure this would happen but it didnt 
happen. The money was paid to the estate  so regardless of how the estate is set up, Mrs L 
wasnt then entitled to the amount she wouldve been had the policy have been set up in the 
way it was intended.
Is HLP at fault?
Ive thought carefully about how the policy was set up. I can see that HLP obtained a few 
similar, almost identical quotes from the policy provider at the time. On some of these quotes 
both Mr and Mrs L are policy owners, in other quotes its only Mr L that is the policy owner. I 
dont know why the different quotes were generated and it could be because of the system 
issues HLP talk about  despite the policy provider denying any issues at the time. But in 
any event, I can see that all correspondence was addressed to both Mr and Mrs L and the 
policy they were sold appeared to be a joint policy. But looking in the detail you can see the 
policy owner was only Mr L.
I can understand how a lay person would miss the detail here, so whilst I understand Mrs L 
had received all of the copies of the information and accepted the cover on that basis, its 
clear that HLP had told her this was a joint policy. In fact HLP say they asked the product 
provider why Mr L was the policy owner and it said it was set up for him to be the point of 
contact. The product provider doesnt have a record of this conversation. And, in any event, 
Id expect HLP to have obtained something in writing to confirm how the policy was set up if 
it had doubts.
It was HLP who sold Mr and Mrs L this policy, it was the expert in these matters and the 
policy wasnt set up in the way Mr and Mrs L asked for, or what they were told they had. 
Because of this, I agree with the Investigator that HLP is at fault.Has Mrs L lost out?
Mrs L has sent details of the estate accounts. Shes shown us the mortgage amount, when 
she was able to pay it and how much shes actually due under the estate as beneficiary. Ive 
thought about the fact Mrs L has repaid her mortgage. Shes explained she did this with the 
life assurance pay-out after receiving advice, so she could mitigate her losses and ensure 
her house was safe for her and her children. But just because the mortgage has been paid, 
doesnt mean she hasnt suffered a loss because of the error.
The very detailed accounts that Mrs L has submitted, which Im satisfied have been 
prepared and finalised by a qualified professional, show that the balance due to her is 
£231,370.38. As she made mortgage repayments and then eventually discharged the 
mortgage for around £260,000, she has a shortfall to make up from what she was actually 
due.
Its also worth noting that Mrs L shouldve received the full policy value at the time Mr L 
passed away  which is more than the full mortgage liability at the time. So, I think its right 
that this is the position Mrs L is put in.
Im mindful that the policy did, in fact, pay out in full. And Ive thought about whether asking 
HLP to pay anything further would be betterment  Mrs L is the sole beneficiary of Mr Ls 
estate anyway. But, had HLP sold Mr and Mrs L the correct policy  with joint policyholders  
the money wouldnt have passed through the estate. And because of this, Mrs L hasnt been 
entitled to the full value of the policy in the same way that she wouldve been had she been 
joint policyholder. 
Im keen to draw a distinction here between Mrs L as an individual who shouldve been a 
joint policy holder and Mrs L acting as legal representative of the estate of the late Mr L. Any 
issues that have arisen for the estate due to the payment of the policy hasnt been 
considered here. That includes any potential estate debts that were payable as a result, and 
any of the estate assets that have changed. This decision focuses on what Mrs L shouldve 
received directly under the policy, and what she was actually due personally because the 
policy paid out to the estate. Any dispute as to the order the estate has been settled falls 
outside of this complaint.
Relevant extract from second provisional decision
Further considerations
The basis of my decision remains the same and Im upholding this complaint. The only 
changes based on the responses from both parties is the redress.
Ive already accepted that the additional interest Mrs L paid on her mortgage, before she 
received the Grant of Probate and the policy paid out, should be refunded with interest. So, 
the only remaining issue is HLPs responses.
Firstly, I had already acknowledged in my provisional decision that this decision is about the 
loss Mrs L has suffered, as she was supposed to be joint policyholder but wasnt due to the 
error made by HLP. The legal argument about the order the estate was settled is complex 
and falls outside of the scope of this decision. The estate accounts have been finalised and 
prepared by a qualified professional and I wont be commenting on the way the estate debts 
were settled. Its clear that Mrs L shouldve had the policy funds paid directly to her but for 
HLPs error. So, Im using the evidence submitted to determine how Mrs L has lost out as a 
result.I do accept, however, that there are some expenses in the accounts that Mrs L has 
submitted that would always be payable. The funeral and headstone being one of them, 
which wouldve been payable regardless of whether the estate had money. This expense 
falls under the heading administration expenses in the accounts weve seen. So, it wouldnt 
be right for HLP to have to cover this cost and it should be deducted from the redress it 
pays. So, I turn to the other costs under the same heading. These total £15,679.70 (inclusive 
of the funeral costs). 
Around half of these costs have been labelled as legal and professional fees and these 
mostly relate to the sale of the estates share in Mr Ls business. I understand that this was 
undertaken to discharge the personal guarantee that Mr L had made. 
Mrs Ls representative has provided comprehensive reasons and evidence to explain that 
she believes none of this wouldve been paid had the policy paid out to Mrs L directly. Shes 
referenced the need to have the personal guarantee removed only because the estate 
wasnt insolvent, as well as the Grant of Probate only being sought to get the policy funds.
Its very difficult, without commenting on how the estate was wound up, for me to conclude 
what costs would and wouldnt have been incurred. Winding up an estate is complex, 
particularly when Mr L was a business owner with a number of liabilities relating to the 
business that hed personally taken. Many of the scenarios are, at this point, hypothetical. I 
agree that Mrs L has lost out, and she hasnt received what she should have. But I think its 
too speculative to say that the legal and professional fees encountered when dealing with Mr 
Ls share in the business, as well as general probate costs, wouldnt have been payable.
I have seen reference to Mrs L always intending to sell Mr Ls share in the business, it was 
hoped that she would receive more than she did and that may have covered some of the 
administration expenses. But we cant be sure of this. The administration and legal costs 
paid were mostly incurred due to selling the business and dealing with the creditors and 
personal guarantee. Whilst an insolvent estate may have negated the personal guarantee, 
Im not persuaded that Mrs L wouldnt have needed to have met the costs to ensure this was 
the case and to sell the estates share of the business. 
As such, I think it would be fair and reasonable to deduct these costs from the overall 
redress.
Putting things right
Mrs L has shared the accounts with HLP. These havent gone into detail about the specific 
costs under the administration expenses, but as Ive said above, I do think this would likely 
have been paid out regardless.
HLP must put Mrs L in the position shed have been in had the policy been set up correctly. 
Mrs L wouldve received the policy surrender value within a month of Mr Ls death. It should 
compare this to the actual value Mrs L is legally entitled to under the estate and pay her the 
difference less the administration expenses of £15,679.70.
As this amount wouldve always been there to repay the mortgage, I wont be asking HLP to 
add interest to the majority of this amount. And I believe the excess may have been used for 
those administration expenses that Im not persuaded wouldnt have been due during the 
winding up of the estate. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask HLP to pay interest 
on this amount. 
As Mrs L wouldnt have incurred the interest on the mortgage whilst waiting for the Grant of 
Probate, this interest should be refunded to her for the period of the delay. This is from 6 June 2020 (one month after the death certificate was issued) to 19 January 2021 (when the 
mortgage was repaid). To this amount, HLP should pay 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
Ive also seen that this issue has caused Mrs L significant trouble and upset. Its important to 
note that the situation wouldve always been distressing, but HLPs error has made a very 
upsetting situation more stressful. Mrs L had to wait for the policy payout and has had to 
continue to worry about being able to keep her home. For this, HLP should pay her £750 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
HLP didnt respond to my second provisional decision. Mrs L disagreed. Her representative 
sent in a very detailed response, with appendices, outlining why the funeral expenses and 
legal costs shouldnt be deducted from the redress. The detailed response concluded that 
the original redress in the first provisional decision is the right one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mrs L Ive considered the response carefully and I do understand the 
position she believes shed be in. But, my decision remains the same.
Im grateful to Mrs L and her representative for providing such detailed information and 
hypothetical calculations. But Ive already said that winding up an estate is complex, and its 
not my role to comment on exactly what wouldve happened to Mr Ls estate had the policy 
been paid directly to Mrs L. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to 
court, and my role is to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable. Its not my role to play 
a forensic accountant, nor a probate lawyer. So, whilst I appreciate the level of detail Mrs Ls 
representative has provided, it is too speculative and complex to say with any certainty what 
situation Mrs L wouldve been in.
I am sure that the policy ought to have been paid to her directly. And Im satisfied shes not 
going to receive the full benefit of the policy. When determining what HLP should pay Mrs L 
Ive used the accounts submitted by Mrs L. But Im still of the opinion that Mrs L wouldve 
had to pay out some costs. I appreciate Mrs L has said these would be minimal and not the 
actual costs the estate paid for the funeral and the legal costs, but I cant be sure thats the 
case. Mrs Ls argument is based on something that hasnt actually happened  the estate 
isnt insolvent. And Mr L did leave a business that Mrs L intended on selling, so costs 
wouldve always been incurred for this. I appreciate that Mrs L believes shed have gained a 
benefit from this if the estate was insolvent due to loans and guarantees but I cant be sure 
this is the case. As I need to reach an outcome based on whats fair and reasonable, I 
simply dont think its fair to ask HLP to pay for costs that were likely always payable.
The issues at play here are complex, and Ive already explained that I dont intend to talk 
about how the estate was settled because that isnt within my remit. Mrs L is asking me to 
accept her evidence as fact when it is based on something that didnt happen  the policy 
being paid out to her directly. Which means the arguments shes made, including the base 
scenario she refers to are hypothetical. Because of this, there isnt enough for me to say its 
fair for HLP to pay for the costs incurred for Mr Ls funeral or the sale of his business assets 
 as its likely these wouldve been incurred all along by Mrs L.I do understand Mrs L will be disappointed by this decision, but she is free to reject the 
decision and pursue the matter in court if she wishes.
Putting things right
Mrs L has shared the accounts with HLP. These havent gone into detail about the specific 
costs under the administration expenses, but as Ive said above, I do think this would likely 
have been paid out regardless.
HLP must put Mrs L in the position shed have been in had the policy been set up correctly. 
Mrs L wouldve received the policy surrender value within a month of Mr Ls death. It should 
compare this (policy value as at 1 June 2020 being one month after Mr Ls death) to the 
actual value Mrs L is legally entitled to under the estate (as per accounts sent to HLP) and 
pay her the difference less the administration expenses of £15,679.70.
As this amount wouldve always been there to repay the mortgage, I wont be asking HLP to 
add interest to this amount. And I believe any excess may have been used for those 
administration expenses that Im not persuaded wouldnt have been due during the winding 
up of the estate and payable by Mrs L herself. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
HLP to pay interest on this amount. 
As Mrs L wouldnt have incurred the interest on the mortgage whilst waiting for the Grant of 
Probate, this interest should be refunded to her for the period of the delay. This is from 6 
June 2020 (one month after the death certificate was issued) to 19 January 2021 (when the 
mortgage was repaid). To this amount, HLP should pay 8% simple interest* per annum from 
the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
*If HLP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ive also seen that this issue has caused Mrs L significant trouble and upset. Its important to 
note that the situation wouldve always been distressing, but HLPs error has made a very 
upsetting situation more stressful. Mrs L had to wait for the policy payout and has had to 
continue to worry about being able to keep her home. For this, HLP should pay her £750 
compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct HL Partnership Limited to follow the instructions Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman