DRN-3724209
The complaint
Mrs D is complaining about Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to hold her liable for loans and an 
overdraft in her name which she says she did not consent to be taken out.  She also 
complains about its decision not to refund transactions she says she did not consent to.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mrs D argues that several loans and an overdraft were taken out in her name by her 
husband without her consent.  She also argues that he made several transactions from her 
Lloyds Bank account without her consent.
She brought this matter to Lloyds Banks attention and asked that the credit be written off 
and disputed transactions refunded  particularly given the fact her husband had confessed 
to the fraudulent activity alleged.  Lloyds Bank carried out an investigation and decided to 
hold Mrs D liable for the credit and not issue any refunds.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mrs D did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Having considered this matter carefully, I am unable to safely conclude that Mrs D did not 
consent to the disputed loans, overdraft and transactions.  I say this mainly because I do not 
find Mrs Ds testimony credible or consistent:
Mrs Ds testimony about her husbands use of her debit card has changed on more 
than one occasion.  
On the one hand, Mrs D has said that her husband took her debit card and used it 
(without her consent) and kept it from her.  On the other hand, Mrs D has said she 
provided her husband with her debit card.
In response to our investigators findings, Mrs D suggested that her husband had 
taken her debit card without her consent but gave it back on occasion.
In all versions of Mrs Ds testimony, she accepts that she allowed her husband to 
have his wages credited to her account.  With this in mind, I find that it is more likely 
than not that Mrs D allowed her husband to use her debit card.  I say this because if 
his wages were being credited to Mrs Ds account, it follows that he would want to 
have access to it to make use of the funds. 
As I find it is likely Mrs D allowed her husband to use her debit card, I cannot say that 
the disputed payments were unauthorised. 
The spending on Mrs Ds account does not appear to be indicative of someone who 
had taken out credit fraudulently for personal gain.  The spending, to my mind, 
seems to be more in-line with general household spending.
It appears as if Mrs D has been able to delineate some of the spending she is 
disputing, which would suggest she did in fact have control of her account at the 
time.
I acknowledge Mrs D says she had no reason to check her account and only became 
aware of things when her husband told her in November 2021.  However, I do not 
find, objectively, that a reasonable person would not have become aware of the 
disputed loans, overdrafts and transactions  during the period we are concerned 
with.
I do appreciate Mrs D says her husband has confessed to the fraudulent activity alleged.  
However, I cannot fairly rely on this solely to support Mrs Ds assertions.  Therefore, taking 
all the above points together  I cannot safely conclude that Mrs D did not consent to the 
loans, overdraft and payments disputed.  This means I will not be asking Lloyds Bank to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman