DRN-2630542
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanquis Bank Ltd acted irresponsibly by giving him a credit card and 
twice increasing his credit limit when hed already accumulated significant debts.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card from Vanquis in August 2017  they gave him an initial credit 
limit of £1,000. He says that, at that time, he had debts of approximately £42,000  and that 
around £28,000 of this was in default. Mr R says these debts had been accumulated through 
an addiction to financial spread-betting.
In December 2017 Vanquis notified him that his credit limit would be increased to £2,000 
and in September 2018 they told him it would be increased to £3,000. He says he was using 
his Vanquis credit card extensively on financial spread-betting websites throughout 2018. Mr 
R says he accepted both credit limit increases - and that they contributed to his addiction to 
financial spread-betting until he was unable to balance his budget at the end of each month.
Mr R complained to Vanquis that they shouldnt have given him a credit card or increased 
his credit limit under those circumstances. Vanquis said that, based on the information they 
had available to them at the time, they didnt think their lending decisions had been 
irresponsible. But they accepted that, based on information now available to them, it may not 
have been appropriate for them to have offered him the original £1,000 credit facility or the 
credit limit increases that followed. They refunded Mr Rs total outstanding balance of 
£3,406.11 and closed his account. But they didnt remove the record of this account from his 
credit file.
Our investigator didnt think Vanquis had acted unfairly or irresponsibly by offering Mr R a 
credit card with a limit of £1,000. But he thought the checks theyd carried out before 
increasing his credit limit revealed information that shouldve given them cause for concern 
as to whether Mr R could afford to repay more credit sustainably. He thought they should 
refund all interest and charges applied to the account after the first credit limit increase in 
November 2017, if they hadnt already done this. But the investigator didnt think Vanquis 
should have to remove the adverse information about this account from Mr Rs credit file. 
Vanquis provided further evidence showing the total interest and charges applied to Mr Rs 
account after the first credit limit increase amounted to £986.42  far less than the amount 
theyd already refunded. Our investigator explained this to Mr R, who accepted this point. 
But Mr R still felt Vanquis should amend his credit file. He said hed never exceeded his 
credit limit or missed a payment until his credit limit was increased to £2,000. He felt the 
adverse information recorded on his file after that increase should be removed, to put him 
back in the position he wouldve been in if those increases hadnt been granted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R complained to them, Vanquis accepted that its decision to lend might have been 
inappropriate. So I dont need to decide that point. Instead Ill concentrate on whether 
theyve done enough to put things right.
 
In response to his complaint, Vanquis closed Mr Rs account without asking him to repay the 
outstanding balance of £3,406.11. A lender might do this where the borrower has no 
reasonable prospect of ever being able to repay the money theyve spent. However, where 
an affordable payment arrangement can be reached, a refund of interest and charges is 
often sufficient, taking into account the fact that the borrower has had the benefits of the 
things that were purchased with the card.  I dont think the circumstances in Mr Rs case 
justify me requiring Vanquis to do more than theyve already done.
 
Mr R says he continued to make his contractual minimum monthly payments until the credit 
limit was increased to £3,000, but at this point the debt was completely unserviceable and he 
had to cease repayments to prioritise essential spending, such as his mortgage. He thinks 
Vanquis should be required to remove the adverse information that appeared on his credit 
file after this point. Ive given this careful consideration, taking into account the information 
shown in the bank statements and credit report hes provided. 
 
Mr Rs credit report shows regular payments were made to his Vanquis account until March 
2019, when payment is shown as late. Ive looked closely at the period leading up to this late 
payment. His credit file shows that he took out a very large number of credit cards and small 
loans in this period. I can understand Mr R not wanting the late payment information on his 
file  its likely to affect his ability to obtain more credit. But I have to balance this against the 
purpose of recording factual credit information.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say that Mr R wouldve maintained his 
payments if his credit limit had stayed at £1,000. And I have to bear in mind the effect of 
removing the later information, leaving just the earlier account history on his file.
Lenders and other account providers check credit files to help them decide whether or not 
they want to do business with a customer. This can also be an important part of the checks 
lenders carry out to make sure repayments are sustainable for customers, without causing 
them financial difficulties. I find the information recorded on Mr Rs credit file to be an 
accurate reflection of how the account was managed. I dont consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Vanquis to remove Mr Rs payment record from his file. 
However, should he wish to do so, Mr R can apply a notice of correction to his file explaining 
the reasons for the missed payments, which prospective lenders will be able to take into 
account.
My final decision
To settle this complaint, Vanquis Bank Ltd refunded £3,406.11 to Mr Rs account, bringing 
his outstanding balance to zero. I think this is fair in the circumstances, so Im not going to 
ask Vanquis to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman