DRN-4233237
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc will not refund £5,000 that he says he lost to a scam. 
What happened
Mr F made a payment of £5,000 on 25 April 2018 to invest in a company Ill call W. Hes 
said that since that point, he has received no returns and has lost his funds so feels this was 
a scam. Mr F raised this with Santander and when he did not get a response, referred the 
complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into it and felt that Santander should reasonably have asked Mr F 
questions about the £5,000 payment prior to processing it. However, they felt that due to the 
official looking paperwork that Mr F was given by W, as well as the fact W was registered on 
Companies House and the company that he sent the funds to were registered at the 
Financial Conduct Authority, it was unlikely further questions would have led to Mr F 
deciding not to send the funds. 
Mr Fs representative disagreed with this as they felt had Santander asked more questions, 
the concerns would have been uncovered and Mr F would not have made the payment. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr F authorised the payment of £5,000 as he believed it was part 
of a legitimate investment.  So, while I recognise that Mr F didnt intend to lose the money, 
the starting position in law is that Santander was obliged to follow Mr Fs instruction and 
process the payment. Because of this, he is not automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Santander did 
enough to try to keep Mr Fs account safe.
Ive compared the transaction in question to Mr Fs normal account activity around the time it 
was sent. Having done so, I dont think it was particularly unusual or out of character for him. 
I say this because there are a number of other higher value transactions, including one of 
over £8,000 around six months before. In addition, the balance of the account following the 
transaction is not particularly low or unusual, so while the value of the payment individually 
may have been a little high, I dont think this on its own is enough to say Santander ought 
reasonably to have flagged this payment prior to it being made. And I therefore dont think 
they have missed an opportunity to uncover any potential concerns they or Mr F may have 
had about the payment prior to it being processed.
However, I have still considered whether intervention by Santander would have made a 
difference to the payment being made, for completeness. And overall, I dont think it would 
have done. Mr F had received a professionally made booklet about the investment, for a 
bond administered by an FCA-registered business, from a company that was registered with 
Companies House. So, at that point, its unlikely probing questions or a targeted warning by 
Santander would have made Mr F change his mind about the transaction. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman