DRN-2934125
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that TSB Bank plc wouldnt allow him a Coronavirus payment deferral on 
his personal loan.
What happened
Mr P was out of work and had been for some time. But he was able to meet his loan
repayments, partly through help from friends and family. Mr P also utilised two one-month
payment holidays that TSB allowed him on his loan.
In March 2020, Mr P said he was struggling to maintain his payments and asked for another
payment holiday but that wasnt granted, as he wasnt entitled to any more. TSB took him
through an income and expenditure assessment and found that he wouldnt be able to meet
his repayments. They suggested he speak to a debt charity to see what advice they could be
able to provide, including a token payment plan.
Mr P missed his April 2020 loan repayment. He then contacted TSB to ask if he could take
advantage of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Coronavirus payment deferral
scheme. TSB explained that nothing had been confirmed at that point and suggested he
keep an eye on their website for updates, but for now he should continue with the repayment
plan with the debt charity.
Mr P says he then applied for a payment holiday using TSBs portal, but he wasnt granted
one on account of being in arrears at the time.
Following that, Mr P was contacted by TSBs collections department. He says this was very
frustrating because they werent aware of his previous discussions with their customer
support unit. Mr P feels the collections department ought to have understood his position
and that he couldnt pay because he was out of work.
Mr P missed his May 2020 payment and submitted a complaint to TSB, again asking to be
allowed a Coronavirus payment deferral. But he wasnt granted one and fell into further
arrears on his loan over the following months.
Remaining dissatisfied, Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator here felt Mr P had been treated unfairly. They felt he should have been
allowed the Coronavirus payment deferral and so recommended his credit file be amended
to take account of that and for him to be paid £200 compensation.
TSB didnt agree with that. They said Mr P wasnt affected by Coronavirus and his situation
had been a long term one, with him seeking assistance as far back as May 2019. TSB also
said Mr P wouldnt have been eligible for a payment deferral in April 2020, because he was
in arrears. And that while the approach to that was changed later in the month, Mr P hadnt
subsequently asked for a deferral until he was two months in arrears.
TSB feel the token payment plan was the appropriate solution at the time.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case was been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision last month, which explained why I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr Ps complaint. A copy of what I said is below:
I appreciate Mr P found himself in a difficult position, and it sounds like he tried very hard to
keep his repayments up to date. But what I need to decide is whether TSB should have
given him a Coronavirus payment deferral. My current view is that they didnt have to do so.
The reason I say that is because Mr P had been in this position long term. It wasnt brought
about by the pandemic, rather his inability to maintain payments anymore coincided with it.
The FCAs guidance said that where a customer was already in financial difficulty, their
existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC (the Consumer Credit sourcebook) would
apply. While Mr P had been able to meet his repayments before April 2020, it seems clear to
me that he was already in financial difficulty as hed been out of work for quite some time,
and had needed help from friends and family.
TSB assessed Mr Ps income and expenditure and decided he couldnt afford to maintain his
repayments anymore. So, they felt it was appropriate for Mr P to seek help from a debt
charity in relation to making a token repayment plan. I think this is reasonable and is in line
with FCA guidance.
I appreciate TSB could have allowed Mr P a payment deferral, but I dont think they needed
to. And it seems likely to me that Mr P was going to fall behind on his repayments regardless
of the pandemic. So, I dont think its unreasonable for his credit file to reflect that.
TSB replied to say they agreed with my decision. Mr P, however, did not. He said I had 
misread the situation, that I dont care and that I had put it down as a mere coincidence that 
he fell into arrears when the Coronavirus deferral scheme was introduced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Ps comments Id like to say that I appreciate he found himself in a 
very difficult period. But Ive explained what the FCA guidance was at the time and I think the 
guidance was followed by TSB. So, I dont think they did anything wrong and see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman