DRN-3734203
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy how Arval UK Limited dealt with parking fines issued against a car supplied 
to him under a hire agreement.
What happened
In November 2016, Mr Z was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Arval. He 
paid an advance payment of £3,000 and the agreement was for 36 months, with monthly 
rental payments of £361.55. Once this agreement expired, Mr Z entered into an informal 
extension arrangement with Arval.
In the first half of 2020 Mr Z received a number of parking fines for parking on a piece of 
private land. However, he believed that he had a right to park there, and therefore the fines 
werent valid. The company that owned the land, who Ill refer to as G, sent the fines to 
Arval. Arval paid these, advising Mr Z of this, and charged him a £15 admin fee for each fine 
they paid. And they invoiced Mr Z for the total amount of the fines theyd paid, and for the 
admin fees.
Mr Z wasnt happy with this. He said that Arval shouldve transferred the liability of the fines 
to him, as per the terms of the hire agreement, so he couldve challenged them. He 
complained to Arval but wasnt happy with their response. So, he brought his complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said that, although the agreement allowed for the liability of parking fines to 
be transferred, G didnt allow the transfer of liability. And, without Gs approval for the 
transfer, Arval were unable to do this. He also said that Arval paid the fines, so no further 
charges for late payment were incurred, but payment didnt stop the fine being challenged. 
And Arval asked Mr Z for details and information to challenge the fines but received no 
response. As such, the investigator didnt think Arval had done anything wrong.
Mr Z didnt agree with the investigator. While he agreed that hed not provided Arval with the 
evidence and information they needed to challenge the fines, he didnt think the fines 
shouldve been paid without his consent. And he didnt think that Arval followed their process 
correctly by not transferring liability, as they had no legal basis on which to pay the fines for 
him. He was also unhappy with the time it took Arval to deal with his complaint.
Because Mr Z didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr Z was supplied with goods under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it. 
Ive seen that Mr Z has provided us with evidence which he says shows that the parking 
fines shouldnt have been issued. While this is noted, its not my role to adjudicate on this 
matter. Instead, what Im looking at is whether Arval acted reasonably by paying the fines. 
Mr Z has also said that he wasnt happy with how Arval dealt with his complaint. However, 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so this isnt something that falls within my 
jurisdiction to consider. 
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions Mr Z agreed to when he took out the agreement 
with Arval. And these state:
Arval has no responsibility for (and the Hirer accepts all responsibility for, including taking all 
appropriate action) any claims, liabilities, losses, damages, or expenses (including legal 
fees) and any liability resulting from legislation for the payment of fines or penalties for 
parking, driving or similar expenses or contraventions in connection with Vehicle. Arval shall 
be entitled to charge the Hirer a reasonable admin fee for any work carried out or 
documentation processed relating to such fines, penalties or contraventions.
This clause is clear in that Arval doesnt take responsibility for the fines themselves, and the 
liability for the fine remains with the hirer  in this instance Mr Z. Its also clear that Arval can 
deal with the fine, and charge Mr Z an admin fee for doing so. However, what the clause 
doesnt say is that Arval must transfer the parking fine to Mr Z, and that theyre unable to 
deal with this themselves. The clause also doesnt say that Arval need Mr Zs written 
consent before they can deal with the fine.
Ive also noted that each of the parking fines were for £85, which was reduced to £40 if paid 
within 14-days from the date of issue. Given this, by paying the fine when they received it, 
rather than having it reissued to Mr Z, Arval acted to reduce Mr Zs potential liability for each 
fine by more than 50%.
Mr Z had parking fines in the past, and Arval had arranged for them to be transferred to him, 
so he could make payment. As such, I understand why Mr Z wouldve expected this to 
happen with these particular fines. However, Arval have explained that they are unable to 
transfer parking fines where the parking company dont allow this, and G didnt allow their 
fines to be transferred. So, they were never able to transfer the fines in question.
Whats more, the payment of the fine didnt stop Mr Z being able to challenge them. And Ive 
seen that Arval offered to challenge the fines for Mr Z, if he sent them the details and 
information to support his challenge. Which Mr Z admits he didnt do.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Arval acted reasonably, and in line with their terms, when 
dealing with the fines they received. Because of this, and while I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr Z, I wont be asking Arval to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint about Arval UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman