DRN-2338558
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was unable sell some of his peer-to-peer loan parts in his 
crowdfunding account with Funding Circle Ltd. Hes also unhappy that Funding Circle 
What happened
Mr G opened a classic account with Funding Circle in July 2013 and an innovative
finance investment savings (IFSA) account in February 2018. 
Funding Circle is a loan-based crowdfunding platform which allows investors to lend money 
to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a 
proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives 
interest on their loan part. At the time of Mr Gs complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-
sale tool on its platform. This provided a way for investors to access their funds early by 
selling their loan parts to other investors by way of a secondary market. But this was subject 
to the loan parts meeting certain requirements, such as there not being a late payment or a 
default on the loans.
Mr G requested to sell his investments in November 2019. Mr G complained to Funding 
Circle in February 2020 as he was unhappy with the time it took for the sale to complete. Mr 
G felt Funding Circle had misled him regarding how long it would take to get access to his 
money, and he said he assumed it would be within a reasonable time of around 30 days. He 
also complained about the changes Funding Circle introduced to its secondary market in 
December 2019. These changes included a new a selling tool whereby investors requesting 
to access their funds early would join a pool and would be able to transfer loan parts on a 
rolling basis. The changes meant that each transfer request would last for 120 days. after 
which investors would receive an email confirming the amounts recouped via transfers and 
repayments in that period. Funding Circle also introduced a 1.25% transfer payment applied 
to the sale value of all loan parts sold on the secondary market, which acted as a discount to 
investors who bought the individual loan parts.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In summary it said: 
The ability to sell loan parts on the secondary market has never been guaranteed.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mr Gs consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair 
notice given.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
The transfer payment isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a 
payment made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans.
Mr G wasnt happy with Funding Circles response and so he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt think that Funding Circle had 
acted unfairly. In summary, she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions explained there was no guarantee he would be 
able to sell his loans and that it depended upon there being sufficient demand from 
other investors. There were also no guarantees on the length of time this process 
may take.
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to make amendments, such as 
introducing the new sales tool and transfer payment, and it had given Mr G enough 
notice of this.
Funding Circle introduced the new sales tool in response to investor feedback and to 
try and reduce wait times for investors looking to sell their loan parts early.
The transfer payment was introduced to adhere to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(the FCA) regulations in ensuring the price offered for exiting a peer-to-peer 
agreement was fair and appropriate.
She said market conditions had become quite challenging as demand from buying 
investors had slumped. And queues to sell loan parts on the secondary market were 
getting longer. As a result of this, the perceived risk to potential buying investors 
wouldve also been increased as their ability to exit lending agreements early 
wouldve also been compromised or delayed.
The new 1.25% transfer payment is not a charge that Funding Circle receives  
instead it acts as a discount to potential buyers. So she was satisfied this was a price 
adjustment rather than a fee.
Ultimately, there was no guarantee that Mr G would have sold all his loan parts if the 
changes werent made and he had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales 
queue if he wasnt happy with the changes.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said he was never given any 
information about how he could withdraw his money when he opened his account. The 
investigator considered Mr Gs further point but explained that Funding Circle had confirmed 
that he needed to have agreed to its terms and conditions as part of the sign-up process for 
opening his account. Shed seen a copy of the terms and conditions applicable at that time 
and these confirmed that selling via the secondary market wasnt guaranteed and that it 
depended on demand from other investors. Mr G responded by explaining that have at no 
point had he ticked any boxes agreeing that he understood the terms and conditions. 
Following this, the investigator provided Mr G with screenshots showing the relevant sign up 
process for opening an account with Funding Circle which showed Mr G needed to have 
ticked a box to confirm hed read the terms and conditions before being allowed to open an 
account. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr G, but Ill explain my reasons why. 
Funding Circle has provided a copy of the terms and conditions from the time when Mr G 
first opened an account in 2013, up until his complaint in 2020. I understand Mr G says hes 
never been provided with these terms and conditions. However, Im persuaded he was as Funding Circle has provided screenshots showing the process for opening an account and 
these show he needed to accept these before proceeding to open his account. Funding 
Circle has also provided evidence of Mr G accepting Funding Circles updated terms and 
conditions in 2017. Furthermore, its common practice for a business to require customers to 
accept terms and conditions before allowing them to open an account. 
Throughout all these terms and conditions, Funding Circle explained that investors could sell 
their loan parts early to other investors. But most importantly, Funding Circle made it clear 
that it didnt guarantee sales would take place nor did it say how long it could take to do so. 
This is because the ability to do so has constantly been dependant on there being a demand 
from investors to purchase loan parts from other investors.
I understand Mr Gs frustration at the time taken to sell his loan parts on the secondary 
market, however, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Funding Circle 
responsible for this. Its clear that sales queues on the secondary market had increased at 
the time Mr G had put his loans up for sale and it was taking much longer than anticipated 
for investors to sell their loan parts in this way. Funding Circle has explained that these 
longer timeframes were due to several factors, including increasing uncertainty at a macro-
economic level - impacting both the amounts being invested and the amounts being 
withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results published to the market alongside growth 
forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in loan parts sale requests
Funding Circle updated investors in October 2019 explaining it was introducing a new selling 
tool and transfer payment, which would apply from 2 December 2019. Prior to the update, 
loan parts were sold on a first-come, first-served basis and investors had to wait until they 
reach the top of the queue before selling any loan parts. The new tool introduced allowed for 
Funding Cirlce to cycle through all investors wishing to sell loan parts as many times as 
possible within a 120-day period. This, coupled with the introduction of a 1.25% transfer 
payment for selling on the secondary market, intended to combat these queues and to 
reduce the time investors, such as Mr G, must wait to sell their loan parts on the secondary 
market.  
The update also explained that Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to 
reflect this. The new terms and conditions explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market, a 
Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part, to 
the benefit of the purchasing Investor. 
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its 
previous terms and conditions: 
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to 
time without your consent for any of the following reasons: 
[...] 
 to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to 
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we no 
longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and its common practice for financial 
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I think its important to clarify that the 
transfer payment is a re-pricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the secondary market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it doesnt receive any money from the 
transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who purchase the individual loan 
parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount incentive to these buyers. In June 2019 
the regulator, the FCA, published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and 
investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the 
FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should re-price 
loans. It implemented this by way of introducing new rules into COBS which came into force 
in December 2019. 
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation 
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances: 
[] 
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of 
the P2P agreement. 
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that: 
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a 
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the 
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate. 
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend 
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in 
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors. 
In Mr Gs case, Funding Circle was facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan parts 
on the secondary market prior to them maturing. In doing so, Funding Circle had a regulatory 
requirement to ensure that the price received for Mr Gs loan parts were fair and appropriate 
on the secondary market. Funding Circle decided to apply a blanket transfer payment of 
1.25% to all loans which are sold by way of the secondary market. In order to determine 
whether this is fair and appropriate, its important to understand what considerations Funding 
Circle made before introducing this. 
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding its considerations, 
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding 
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment and selling tool would have on both 
the buyer and seller of loan parts on the secondary market. 
In terms of the introduction of the transfer payment, although the risk profile of the loan parts 
hadnt changed, there was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in 
the market was an important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mr Gs loan parts. I 
say this as Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and 
appropriate not only to Mr G, but also to the investors who intend to purchase them from 
him. It follows that if the loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market 
conditions, then Funding Circle must ensure the price offered reflects this. Considering all of the above, I dont think the changes Funding Circle introduced were unfair 
or unreasonable. Whilst Funding Circle never guaranteed Mr G would be able to sell his loan 
parts via the secondary market and didnt say how long it would possibly take to do so, its 
clear Funding Circle introduced these changes to increase his chances of selling and to 
speed up the process involved. Its also important to consider Mr G didnt have to sell his 
loan parts on the secondary market if he didnt want to incur the transfer payment or was 
unhappy with the changes introduced. As Funding Circle has explained, the transfer 
payment is only triggered if Mr G decides to exit from his investment before the maturity date 
of the loans. So he was able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any requests to 
transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts until they 
mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Funding Circle Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman