DRN-4431788
Complaint
Ms Y has complained about a credit card Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
provided to her. She says the limit on the credit card was irresponsibly increased after she 
was continually paying the minimum payment and even when she was consistently applying 
balance transfers to her credit card.
Background
Nationwide provided Ms Y with a credit card with an initial limit of £1,500.00 in August 2014. 
The credit limit was increased to £2,500.00 in June 2015; before being subsequently 
increased to £3700.00 in November 2015; the limit was once again increased to £4,450 in 
June 2016; before finally being increased to £5,350.00 in in December 2016.
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms Y and Nationwide had told us. And he thought 
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms Y unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card or increasing the credit limit. So he didnt recommend that Ms Ys complaint be 
upheld. Ms Y disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
Ms Y account balance never went above £3,500.00. So she never paid any interest as a 
result of the June 2016 and December 2016 increases, which is what I would award if I was 
to uphold the complaint. As this is the case, Ive not looked into the complaint about these 
matters because there would in effect be nothing for me to tell Nationwide to do in terms of 
putting things right even if I were to agree with Ms Y.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ys complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ys complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Nationwide needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Ms Y could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it 
didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Nationwide says it initially agreed to Ms Ys application after it obtained information on her 
income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Ms Y 
would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. Nationwide also 
says that due to Ms Ys account being relatively well managed she was then offered a credit 
limit increase to £2,500.00 and £3,700.00 in November 2015. 
On the other hand Ms Y says that she shouldnt have been lent to or had her credit limit 
increased. Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Ms Y was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that to start with Nationwide was required to understand whether a 
credit limit of £1,500.00 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in 
one go. A credit limit of £1,500.00 required reasonable monthly payments in order to clear 
the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Nationwides credit check did indicate that Ms Y had not had previous difficulties repaying 
credit. And as Ms Y didnt have much in the way of active debts or commitments at the time 
of application, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to rely on what Ms Y said 
about her income and expenditure during the application for the card. As this is the case, Im 
satisfied that the checks carried out before Ms Y was initially provided with her credit card 
were reasonable and proportionate.
For the credit limit increases, it appears as though Nationwide relied on Ms Ys account 
having been managed well in the year/year and a half or so since her account had been 
opened. Im not necessarily persuaded that Ms Ys account had been managed particularly 
well or that this was an indication that Ms Y should be lent up to a further £1,000.00 and 
£1,800.00. This is especially as it appears as though Ms Y had a couple of late payments in 
the period since shed had the account open. 
That said, Im also mindful that although there wasnt anything in the way of any additional 
significant adverse information on the credit search Nationwide carried out. Although it 
should be noted that Ms Y was more indebted at this stage than she was when her initial 
card application was made. So I think that there were some signs that Nationwide needed to 
monitor going forward. 
Ms Y has said that we should look at her other complaints about irresponsible lending to see 
what her position was. But I think that going into detail about other lending which wasnt 
provided in the same circumstances as the card was or the limit increases, is more than the 
checks Nationwide needed to carry out here.
Nonetheless, given the amount of the likely increased monthly payments as well as what 
Nationwide ought to have been aware of, I do think that it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Nationwide to find out a bit more about Ms Ys regular living costs before 
offering the credit limit increase. As Nationwide didnt obtain this information, Ive considered 
the information Ms Y has provided with a view to deciding what it might have found out about 
Ms Ys regular living costs had this information been asked for.
Having done so, I dont think that Nationwide would have made a different decision even if it 
had asked Ms Y for more information. In my view, the information Ms Y has provided about 
her finances at the time appears to show that when her committed regular living expenses 
and existing credit commitments were deducted from the funds going into her account, she 
did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due. In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about what Ms Y has said about not working at the 
time of the first limit increase because she was travelling. As far as Im aware, Nationwide 
didnt check Ms Y income at this stage. And I accept that its possible Ms Y could have told 
Nationwide that she wasnt working if she was asked about this before the limit increase was 
offered and Nationwide didnt simply rely on her initial declaration. 
But Ms Y had only just gone travelling and it was very close this was to when the limit 
increase took place. Its possible that Nationwide could have found out more about Ms Y 
employment situation but in reality she was, in any event, about to start working shortly 
afterwards  at least thats what her bank statements appear to indicate. And she was about 
to be offered a further interest free offer too. 
So, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to conclude that Nationwide would have found 
out that Ms Y wouldnt be working for an extended period, or that she would have insufficient 
funds to make the repayments for an increased credit limit. This is even if it had tried to find 
out more about Ms Y circumstances at this time. 
I fully accept its possible that Ms Ys position might have been worse than what it looks like 
on the information shes provided, or that it worsened after the credit limit increases took 
place. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or say that 
Nationwide should have known this was the case at the time it was making its lending 
decisions. This is especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown that Ms Y could repay what she could owe at the 
time the lending decisions were made. 
So overall while Im sorry to hear about Ms Ys condition and hope that she does get better 
soon, I dont think that Nationwide treated Ms Y unfairly or unreasonably when providing her 
with her credit card or subsequently increasing her credit limit. And Im not upholding Ms Ys 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Ms Y. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman