DRN-4513003
The complaint
Mr A complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed his credit card account 
without telling him it was going to do so. 
What happened
Mr A held a credit card account with Halifax which had been opened in January 2017. The 
last purchase Mr A made using the card, according to Halifaxs records, was in August 2020.
Halifax sent Mr A a letter in November 2022. It said if Mr A hadnt contacted it by 
February 2023 to tell it the account was still needed, or carried out a transaction using the 
card, the account would be closed. No contact was made by the specified date and no 
transaction completed so Halifax closed Mr As credit card account.
Mr A telephoned Halifax in July 2023 to request a new credit card as hed misplaced the old 
one. Halifax said a new credit card would be ordered but, two weeks later, the new card 
hadnt arrived whereas a debit card ordered separately had been. Halifax investigated whilst 
Mr A was on the phone and then told Mr A that the credit card account had been closed 
some months previously. Mr A told Halifax he hadnt had any notification of the closure and 
requested the credit card account was re-opened and compensation paid. Halifax told Mr A 
the old credit card account couldnt be re-opened but he was free to apply for a new card 
account if he wished. Mr A decided not to do this. 
In its final answer to Mr As complaint, Halifax apologised that he was given incorrect 
information in the first phone call on 11 July 2023. It offered, and paid, £40 as compensation. 
Mr A was unhappy with this resolution and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt feel Halifax had done anything 
wrong. She said shed seen evidence that a letter had been produced and also a copy of the 
template letter used to notify consumers in this situation. She concluded Halifax had acted in 
line with the terms outlined in the letter and therefore Halifax hadnt acted unfairly. She felt 
the compensation paid was fair for the inconvenience caused. Mr A disagreed and asked 
that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint.
I realise that this situation will have been frustrating for Mr A. But Halifax is entitled to decide 
who it continues to do business with and it can close accounts, in line with the relevant terms 
and conditions. 
Here, Halifax identified that Mr A hadnt used his credit card for a purchase for some time. 
Whilst I dont have a copy of the actual letter sent to Mr A, Ive seen internal records which 
show a letter was produced, and Ive also seen a copy of the template letter used. Based on 
this, Im satisfied Halifax did attempt to contact Mr A. The information I have suggests Mr A 
had until 8 February 2023 to either contact Halifax, or use the card for a transaction.
Mr A didnt get in touch with Halifax until July 2023 when he told it hed misplaced his credit 
card  which is why he needed a new one. Im satisfied therefore that the deadline set by 
Halifax wasnt met. It follows that I consider Halifax acted as it said it would do in its letter 
and so I dont think it treated Mr A unfairly in closing the account when it did. 
Mr A has said he never received the letter from Halifax. Halifax sent the letter using the 
details it had on file and Mr A has confirmed that a debit card ordered separately had been 
received to the same address. I cant hold Halifax responsible if a letter isnt delivered  it 
can only ensure the letter is produced and sent to the correct address. After that, if a letter 
doesnt arrive, thats the responsibility of the delivery company. Here, Halifax sent the letter 
and the necessary actions it asked Mr A to take werent completed for some time. So, I think 
it was fair, in the absence of any action here, that it decided to close the account as it said it 
would. 
When Mr A contacted Halifax for the first time, he was given incorrect information and was 
told a new card would be sent out to him. That couldnt have happened because the account 
had been closed some months earlier. Halifax has acknowledged its error and paid £40 in 
compensation. Mr A feels the distress and inconvenience hes suffered warrants a larger 
award. Ive considered this carefully. Halifax is compensating Mr A for being under a 
misapprehension for two weeks. He thought a card had been ordered and was in the post to 
him, whereas it wasnt. I appreciate this was frustrating, but I think the award Halifax has 
made is fair and is in line with what Id consider awarding in similar circumstances.
So, although I understand Mr A will be disappointed, Im not asking Halifax to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Stephen Farmer
Ombudsman