DRN-3468613
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the time it has taken, and the treatment he has received from   
ITI Capital Limited (ITI) when his account was migrated over from a previous firm. ITI didnt 
respond to his questions about how to withdraw from his account which he couldnt access. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Rs share account, which he held with a previous firm that had gone into 
administration, was transferred over to ITI. Mr R didnt want to hold his portfolio with ITI. He 
wanted to sell his shareholdings but was unable to access his account, withdraw funds or 
manage his holdings. 
As a result of not being able to sell his shareholdings and withdraw his funds, Mr Rs had to 
take money out of his cash ISA in order to pay an unexpected bill. 
To put the matter right Mr R would like to know why ITI did not address his complaint, failed 
to inform him of his options and failed to inform him how he could bring his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Mr R wants compensation for any potential losses in the value of his 
shares from the point they were to be transferred to ITI to the date of sale. 
Mr R complained to this service and in the meantime received a response to his complaint 
with ITI who upheld his complaint. It said;
It recognised the client service it had offered to Mr R had fallen short of the standards 
it sought to deliver. The delays in the onboarding of his account were unacceptable.
It apologised for the lack of access to his trading account caused by the high 
volumes of account access requests it had experienced as well as some technical 
issues because of the migration. 
ITI had a request on its system to transfer his holdings to another broker which was 
actioned on 18 August and which it said was currently in progress. It asked Mr R to 
confirm if he would like to make a withdrawal of his holdings or have them transferred 
to another broker. This would be passed onto the relevant team to action 
immediately.
ITI offered its apologies for the extensive time it had taken to resolve the matters he 
had raised. It offered £75 for the inconvenience and/or distress he had been caused. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint issued his opinion. He outlined what had 
caused the complaint and what had happened subsequently;
Mr R had been in touch with the investigator in January 2022 and explained that he 
had needed to obtain dividend/corporate action information for his tax return but had 
been unable to access his account. ITI hadnt responded to his request so Mr R had 
to spend time researching the dividend history of his holdings for HMRC. I comment 
on this point further in my decision. 
Mr R provided us with details of his investment at the time ITI had taken over the 
account which were valued around £962 excluding delisted shares. In January 2022 
Mr R had valued his holdings at around £1,100. 
Instead of using the funds from his liquidated portfolio with ITI Mr R had said hed 
had to remove cash from his ISA to cover unexpected bills. ITI had never provided 
Mr R with the relevant paperwork to liquidate his holdings and it had incorrectly 
confirmed that he wanted to transfer his holdings to another broker. Despite him 
making clear his intentions. 
The investigator concluded ITI had treated Mr R unfairly so to put the matter right he 
recommended ITI do the following 
oLiquidate Mr Rs holdings and transfer the funds to his bank account
oProvide a detailed summary of Mr Rs investments and any dividends earned
oCompensate Mr R for the distress and inconvenience suffered by increasing 
its offer to £300.
The investigator didnt recommend compensating Mr R with any interest as despite 
him having to take cash out of his ISA to pay for an unexpected bill, Mr R wouldnt 
have earned any interest on the money he intended to withdraw from his portfolio 
which he would have used to pay the bill instead. And the increase in the value of his 
holdings was higher than interest Mr R would have earned from his cash ISA. If Mr R 
had been charged an early exit fee for withdrawing from his ISA, ITI should 
reimburse him. 
ITI accepted the investigators findings who in turn asked it to settle with Mr R directly. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the timeliness of ITIs response and believed it should be referred to 
the FCA. He also asked for a finding on recompense for any shortfall should the funds he 
receive from sale of his shares be lower than at the time of the transfer to ITI. 
The investigator explained to Mr R what had happened during the complaint process while at 
the Financial Ombudsman and the role of the FCA. With regard to any potential investment 
loss, ITI had said it had never received a withdrawal form from Mr R in which case wed be 
unable to ask for compensation on his behalf. 
Mr R was extremely unhappy with this response. He hadnt provided ITI with a withdrawal 
form as it hadnt asked for one. He reiterated that ITI hadnt responded to or resolved his 
complaint points. It was making charges to his account, had failed to tell him how to sell his 
holdings and had incorrectly locked his account in the transfer process. He hadnt been able 
to access his account for two years. ITI had completely failed to communicate with him. 
Mr R provided further points for my consideration. He said he didnt take any action further to 
the final response letter as he had referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and 
felt it was best placed to resolve the complaint. He said that had he known it would take as 
long as it has, he would have acted differently. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Im going 
to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved reasonably however I think the £300 
compensation recommended is broadly fair and reasonable. I very much recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling about his complaint. Its very clear he is, 
and has been, extremely frustrated and stressed by the process. Ive considered the 
submissions he has made very carefully. And I hope he wont think I am being discourteous 
by not addressing all of the points he has made in any great detail. Ive kept my focus in this 
decision on the core matters to the complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
As I understand it Mr R has recently raised two further complaints with ITI which have been 
brought to the Financial Ombudsman relating to his request for tax certificates and 
unfreezing his account. The first relates to ITI failing to respond to a request for tax 
certificates on 19 January 2022. And the second one raised on 26 May 2022 is about the 
recent problems he has had when trying to unfreeze his account, sell his shares and obtain 
withdrawal of his funds. So, my final decision will consider, and be limited to, what happened 
prior to that.
Withdrawal of Mr Rs portfolio
 
On 3 August 2020 Mr R was sent a message that the issues he had been having in using 
ITIs online system had been resolved and with details about how to either onboard as a 
client or withdraw assets. 
In Mr Rs email response of the same day he confirmed that he had declined ITIs terms of 
business over a week before and wasnt presented with any other option after doing so  
only that his request was processing. He said that this didnt accord with the steps that ITI 
said needed to be taken. He also sent a follow up email on 18 August raising a complaint. 
And in that email, he also confirmed he wished to sell his holdings and not transfer them. He 
chased for a response again on 4 September. 
In one of ITIs responses on 7 September 2020 it referred to Mr R using another broker and 
advised the status on his account had been changed so that when he logged on next he 
would be able to submit a withdrawal/transfer/closure request form. He should enter the 
account number of the third-party broker on that form. In a second email dated 9 September 
2020 it confirmed his formal complaint and that it was being looked into. 
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider that went 
into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. And it seems evident there were some IT issues. 
Its clear from the copies of various correspondence I have seen that emails etc were 
crossing over and responses were being sent to Mr R from various parties and departments 
at ITI with either standard information, which was being sent to all consumers, or responses 
specific to Mr Rs account and queries. The responses and emails being sent to Mr R 
werent joined up at ITIs end.
I cant know how Mr R had gone about declining ITIs terms of business and what the 
implications of that were. Whether at that point he should have been given the option to 
either transfer or withdraw, as examples, but because of onboarding issues at ITI its system 
wasnt performing as it should. Mr R has said that his account was just showing as 
processing and he couldnt access his account, hence him raising a complaint.  And while Mr R said in his email to ITI of 18 August that he wanted to sell his holdings and 
withdraw, its clear that ITI had recorded that Mr R wanted to transfer his holdings as 
confirmed in its email to him of 7 September and also in its final response letter to him of    
29 October 2020. So, there was a mismatch in what Mr Rs intentions were and ITIs 
understanding of that. 
In its submission to the Financial Ombudsman, ITI has said Mr R stated he wanted to 
transfer to a new provider, it had never received any transfer out instructions from his broker 
or himself. So, at this point Im satisfied that ITI was still under the impression that Mr R 
wanted to transfer his portfolio but hadnt given any instruction up until then. So, it seems to 
me there was a genuine misunderstanding between the parties as to what action Mr R 
wanted to take. 
I completely accept Mr Rs point that he was already stressed and exhausted by his attempts 
at withdrawing his portfolio by the time he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman and subsequently received a response to his complaint from ITI on 29 October. 
However, I cant ignore the fact that in its final response to Mr Rs complaint of                    
29 October 2020 it said that on its system there was a transfer request to another broker and 
that it was in progress. It continued Please confirm to me if you would like to make a 
withdrawal of your holdings or would like them transferred to another broker and I will 
personally pass this onto the relevant department to action immediately.
Mr R has said that as he had already brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
when he received ITIs final response he forgot about the comment in ITIs final response 
letter about making contact. But I think this is a crucial point.
When ITI sent its message on 3 August that it had resolved its onboarding issues and gave 
details about how consumers should proceed I think this should have alerted Mr R to there 
being a potential problem with his attempt  around a week earlier  in trying to withdraw his 
account by not agreeing to its terms of business. And again, in ITIs email of 7 September 
and the final response letter reiterated ITIs understanding that Mr R wanted to transfer his 
portfolio rather than withdraw. 
While Mr R was clear he had given an instruction on 18 August to withdraw his account, ITIs 
responses to him suggested otherwise. And I think at that point Mr R had an opportunity to 
address the misunderstanding, (and ITI told us it did send a withdrawal form to Mr R on      
11 October 2020) however difficult and frustrating it must have been for him in making 
contact with ITI or the right person or team. If Mr R had responded to the question posed in 
ITIs final response letter, or completed the withdrawal form ITI said it sent, he would have 
had the opportunity to correct that misunderstanding. 
In any relationship between a consumer and a business there are always opportunities for 
errors or misunderstandings. And it is how a business responds to that that is important. And 
despite Mr Rs evident frustration I dont think ITI intended to cause this. I think it was 
working under stretched circumstances which resulted in Mr R not receiving the service that 
he should have done. 
Putting things right
Is the offer fair?
That being said, its clear Mr R has had a very difficult time during the whole process and Im 
sure feels stressed and exhausted by the whole affair. The investigator acknowledged this, as did ITI in its response by agreeing to the award recommended  increasing it from £75 
that had previously been offered to £300.
Mr R wants recompense for any loss he has suffered between the date of migration of his 
account to ITI to the date he sells those investments. Hes also referred to the cash he had 
to withdraw from his ISA in order to fund an unexpected bill which he would otherwise have 
paid from the proceeds received from his portfolio liquidation. 
However, for the purposes of this complaint it seems unlikely that Mr R has suffered a 
financial loss. He told us that around the time of the migration his portfolio was valued at 
around £964 and which later had increased to around £1,100 suggest that Mr Rs portfolio 
has benefited from the delays and he has received a better return than he would have 
received if he had kept his cash within the ISA. And while Mr R may argue this is just the 
benefit of the market, it is simply the case that theres no evidence Mr R has suffered a 
financial loss for me to consider for this complaint. And like the investigator, I think it unlikely 
Mr R would have earned interest on any liquidated proceeds as he has told us he would 
have used to them to pay the unexpected bill in any event. 
Mr R has said that there are some charges debited to his account and as he didnt accept 
ITIs terms of business, those charges shouldnt be made. But Id revert back to my 
comments that when Mr R declined those terms its clear that ITI had suffered problems with 
its onboarding  or otherwise in the case of Mr R  and his instructions either hadnt been 
processed or processed incorrectly. And by not taking up the opportunity given to Mr R in not 
responding to ITIs questions in its final response letter, ITI continued to administer his 
account in the absence of any instruction to the contrary. So, I dont think ITI was wrong in 
making those charges.
ITIs response to Mr Rs complaint and Financial Ombudsman referral rights
Mr R raised a complaint with ITI in his email of 18 August 2020. He then chased for details 
about how to bring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman about his complaint on         
14 October as it remained unresolved after eight weeks. 
I note Mr R recognised ITIs responses to him were not aligned with his actual requests. And 
as Ive said above, the responses he did receive were from different departments at ITI and 
not joined up which must have been very frustrating for him. However, in its final response 
to his complaint on 29 October it did give referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman and by 
that time he had already brought his complaint to us on 17 October. So, while ITIs response 
to him took longer than it should have done and Mr R would have liked, I cant see that he 
has been disadvantaged by this. 
No doubt Mr R will be disappointed in my decision and not to uphold it any further than I 
have done. But I hope I have been able to explain to him how and why I have reached that 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint about the service he received from ITI Capital Limited. It is for    
Mr R to decide whether to accept the offer of £300 already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman