DRN-4311589
The complaint
In the course of obtaining information about his share dealing account, Mr W has 
complained Halifax Share Dealing Limiteds (HSDL) secure messaging system is unfit for 
purpose and inconsistent with the firms other electronic communications. 
What happened
Mr W has a share dealing account with HSDL. He received an email which appeared to 
originate from HSDLs parent company, notifying him of a secure message hed been sent 
by HSDL. It told him that in order to view the secure message, hed need to arrange a 
passphrase by following a link in the email. 
Mr W was immediately suspicious of the email. It was out of step with other communications 
hed received in the past. Previous messages had come from a different email address, 
didnt require him to set up a passphrase, and partially shared his postcode as an assurance 
the messages were genuine. Mr W contacted HSDL to establish whether the message was 
genuine. 
On hearing from him, HSDL assured Mr W that the message was genuine, and that it was a 
requirement of using its secure messaging service that he set up an online passcode. Mr W 
was unhappy however. The irregular format of the email had worried him that he was at risk 
of fraud. And he was particularly concerned that creating a new passcode, via a link in an 
email, had too much in common with known email-based scams for it to be relied upon as a 
reasonable means of establishing secure communications. 
HSDL apologised to Mr W for having given him cause to complain, but it insisted that its 
process for setting up a passcode was correctly observed. As he remained unhappy with its 
response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. They werent persuaded HSDL was treating 
Mr W unfairly by arranging its messaging system in this way. They were satisfied this was a 
matter for HSDLs own commercial judgement. As Mr W didnt accept our investigators 
findings, the matters been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSDLs process for sharing bespoke messages with Mr W, is to do so via its secure 
messaging system. The firm has decided that a necessary part of using that system is, in the 
first instance, to impose a requirement upon Mr W to establish a passcode that allows him 
secure access to his messages. 
HSDL has an obligation to arrange adequate protection for the assets it safeguards and 
administers on Mr Ws behalf. But there are no rules or laws which set a precise standard for 
what a secure messaging system like HSDLs should look or function like. Im therefore 
satisfied that the terms of use and the general functionality of this system are broadly 
matters for HSDLs commercial judgement. 
On the face of it, Im not persuaded its unfair or unreasonable of HSDL to impose this 
requirement on Mr W. 
I appreciate that from his perspective, Mr W has likened the process of arranging a 
passcode via a click-through link, to features seen in common email scams. Hes said 
receiving the email instructing him to arrange a passcode made him feel anxious. 
In this case, I accept that Mr W has acted with due diligence, which feels profoundly sensible 
given the prevalence of online scams. But Im not persuaded HSDL has treated him unfairly. 
I can see that where he sought to verify the authenticity of the email, HSDL responded 
reasonably promptly to offer its assurances the message was genuine. The firm also 
apologised to him in its final response and assured him it was not HSDLs intention to cause 
him any difficulties. Im therefore satisfied that HSDL has treated Mr W fairly, where its 
requirement for a passcode is concerned. 
Mr W has also questioned what he perceives to be an inconsistency between emails he 
receives from Halifax and the email he received from HSDLs parent company which 
prompted him to arrange a passcode. In particular, hes highlighted a communication he 
received which says Halifax will never send you an email that asks for your sign-in details, 
or for you to click on a link to sign-in. The same message also assures Mr W that all 
genuine Halifax emails will have certain features which werent present in the passcode 
email his complaint focusses on.  
I think its important at this point to distinguish between Halifax, who it seems Mr W might 
also bank with, and who are the originators of the email above, and HSDL, a separate legal 
entity, part of the same banking group, which is the subject of his complaint in this case. 
Based on his submissions, it appears that Halifax and HSDL operate slightly different 
processes for communicating electronically with Mr W. Halifax has clearly outlined the 
standards it will adhere to whilst doing so. And as per the message he received from HSDLs 
parent company, it seems HSDL employs a different standard. 
I can appreciate that, where the two firms share the name Halifax, this may initially have 
been a source of confusion. But Im satisfied that, in responding to his complaint, HSDL has 
clearly asserted what its process for communicating with Mr W will entail. And as above, Im 
satisfied that process is a fair one, mindful of HSDLs obligations to Mr W as its customer. 
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman