DRN-3398438
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he has received from St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Ltd. (SJP) on his personal pension. He would like them to refund the fees he 
paid and to compensate him for the trouble it has caused him.
What happened
Mr R took out a personal pension with SJP in 2000. He added further contributions over the 
years and was advised/serviced by different SJP advisers.
Sadly in 2018 Mr Rs father passed away. Mr R was one of the executors and there appear 
to have been difficulties among the family arising from the administration of the estate. While 
these events are not directly relevant to this complaint (and have been the subject of a 
separate complaint), they provide important context for the very stressful time Mr R was 
experiencing during this period.
By January 2018 Mr Rs adviser, a self-employed representative of SJP, asked Mr R not to 
contact his office again because he was now being dealt with by SJP centrally. On 30 March 
2021 Mr R raised a complaint with SJP about his pension.
On 22 April 2021 SJPs legal department responded to him, acknowledging that they had not 
been able to find him a new servicing adviser since October 2018. They offered a refund of 
the adviser charges over that period, which they calculated as £695. In the same email, SJP 
reminded him that they did not have the legal power to appoint trustees to family trusts and 
that the offer in relation to his own pension had no connection to any matters involving his 
parents. 
From around this time there is an extensive volume of email correspondence between Mr R 
and SJP. While I can assure both parties that I have read the correspondence and 
considered it carefully I will not summarise every communication here because I want to 
focus on what I think were the most important events as the issue developed. 
On 21 May 2021 Mr R brought his complaint to this service, requesting that it was dealt with 
separately from matters relating to his late father. He also made allegations against SJP 
about shredding evidence. On 28 May Mr R spoke with a representative of this service to 
explain the circumstances of his complaint. 
He said that he had not had any service from SJP since 2017 - SJP admitted this, but from 
January 2018, not October 2017. He said that he had had a couple of updates since 2018. 
He felt that staff were keeping the complaint away from their bosses. He told us that SJP 
staff were asking him for evidence but since they should have had all the emails he 
wondered if they had been shredding documentation. Mr R was waiting for a revised offer.
The revised offer came on 22 June. SJP apologised and offered a return of fees from 1 
January 2017 of £1,199 plus an additional £250 to recognise the trouble the lack of service 
had caused him. Mr R rejected this offer.
On 3 August 2021 the relationship between Mr R and SJP deteriorated further. In a 
telephone call between him and SJP, Mr R believed that one SJP employee had been 
laughing at him. This employee later said in an email that he thought Mr R was potentially 
vulnerable and appeared to believe that SJP were persecuting him. The employee said that 
Mr R was becoming aggressive and expects an instant response to his emails. He said that 
he had advised Mr R to hire a solicitor to handle his complaint(s). In an email later that day 
Mr R alleged that SJP were trying to bamboozle him.
The following day SJPs legal department stated that the business would no longer 
correspond directly with Mr R as the matter was now being considered by this service. 
On 9 November Mr R spoke with a representative of this service and gave further details of 
the circumstances surrounding his complaint. He told us that he was partly disabled and that 
travelling was very stressful for him. He repeated his allegations against the employee 
referred to above and said that he had separately referred this employee to his own 
professional body. 
He gave us some more background. He had set up his pension about 20 years before, and 
had made contributions via his late father, who would pass on cheques to SJP and also 
chose some of the investments. He said that because of the time he had to spend dealing 
with the complaint he had not had time to properly grieve for his late father, who he had 
promised that he would stay with SJP. He thought SJP would not allocate him another 
adviser because of the complaint regarding his fathers estate. 
SJP offered to increase the payment from £250 to £500. Our investigator also asked 
whether SJP could secure another adviser for him so he could remain a client and receive 
the service he wanted. 
Since their advisers were self-employed, SJP explained, it was up to them to decide which 
clients they took on. So SJP could not guarantee to find him another adviser. In fact, in 
March 2019, they had already advised him to look elsewhere for advice. SJP reiterated that 
Mr R said that he knew of an SJP adviser who was willing to take him on, so he should 
pursue that avenue.
Our investigator issued their findings on 18 January 2022. These findings were that SJP had 
failed to provide Mr R with a service over the period in question, which neither party 
disputed. The investigator also found that the offer SJP had made was a fair way to settle 
the issue. While the investigator was sympathetic to Mr R for the loss of his parents and for 
his health, this could not be directly linked to the lack of service on his pension, based on the 
evidence that was made available. 
The investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint because, although SJP had failed to 
provide Mr R a service he felt he had paid for, the business had made a fair offer to Mr R to 
put things right. 
Mr R rejected the increased payment on 25 January 2022. A week later he said that he 
would settle for a payment of £5,000. Our investigator explained to Mr R why this amount 
would be outside our guidelines for a case of this type, and asked Mr R to provide any 
medical evidence he had by 24 February 2022.
Mr R provided us with a note from his GP on 14 July which referred to longstanding 
symptoms of stress and anxiety. Stressors include physical health problems, a longstanding 
legal case and family issues.
Over the coming weeks Mr R told us that he was on leave recovering from a medical procedure that was caused by SJP and that he would no longer contact us from 15 August. 
On 16 August he contacted us to say that he had a second medical opinion which confirmed 
that his GPs report was more than explanatory and clear.
There was an attempt to resolve the matter informally, by remediation but unfortunately that 
attempt failed.  
Since Mr R did not accept the investigators opinion that the offer from SJP was fair, the 
case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge that Mr R has clearly had a difficult time in recent years 
with the loss of his parents, his other health issues and the related stress and anxiety he has 
experienced. I would like to offer him my condolences.
Since both parties agree that Mr R did not receive the service he was expecting, I dont need 
to make a finding on that point. I do have to decide whether I think the offer made by SJP 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In particular I must decide 
whether the £500 is a fair reflection of the impact on Mr R of the lack of service on his 
pension, because this is what Mr R disagrees with. 
My key findings can be summarised as follows:
While SJP failed to provide Mr R with the service he wanted on his pension, they 
acknowledged their mistake and apologised.
Mr R has clearly had a difficult and stressful time, which SJP was aware of. In those 
circumstances, the impact on Mr R could be expected to be greater than would 
otherwise be the case.
SJP knew about the wider issues facing Mr R and that, as a consequence, he might 
have needed to be handled with greater sensitivity than another customer in different 
circumstances. So I think it is right that SJP, as well as taking responsibility for not 
servicing Mr Rs pension, also takes responsibility for the part they played in Mr Rs 
feelings of stress and anxiety. 
While not receiving advice/service on his pension certainly would not have helped, I 
dont think that it is fair to say that it was the major factor in the stress and anxiety Mr 
R was experiencing. It is clear from the doctors note that there were multiple causes. 
SJP should only be held responsible for the harm they caused. 
Mr R would still like to have an SJP adviser, as he feels safer with a company his 
family has dealt with over many years. But SJP has explained that they cannot force 
their advisers to take on any particular client. That is the advisers own decision, as 
they are self-employed individuals. So I dont think we can expect SJP to do any 
more in this regard. I agree with SJP that, if he knows an SJP adviser who is willing 
to take him on, then that seems the best way forward. 
So in summary I find that SJP were responsible for causing Mr R some distress, but that 
other factors such as his bereavement and physical health, which SJP cannot be held 
responsible for, were likely to have had a greater impact.   I think SJP acted fairly in accepting their responsibility but could have done more to lessen 
the impact of what they did given what they knew about Mr Rs wider circumstances. 
I now need to decide on what I think is a fair and reasonable award. In doing so I must follow 
this services guidelines. Mr R has said that he would settle for an award of £5,000. For an 
award of that size to be appropriate, as our investigator explained, our guidelines say that 
the business should have caused sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, 
or severe disruption to daily life typically lasting more than a year.
While I do not dispute that Mr R has experienced distress over a sustained period of time, 
the medical and other evidence that has been presented does not show that the distress 
was caused by not receiving ongoing service on his pension. I know Mr R will be 
disappointed but I dont think that the circumstances of this case meet what is needed for me 
to make an award of £5,000.
If we look at the guidelines for the range in which SJP has made an offer, they say that an 
award of this level might be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot 
of extra effort to sort out.  
I think that describes Mr Rs position accurately so I am not going to make an award for a 
different amount. I think that the offer of £500, alongside the refund of fees amounting to 
£1,200, is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Since I find that SJPs offer is fair and reasonable, I am not going to require them to do 
anything more than what they have already offered.
My final decision
I find that the offer already made by SJP is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. St. 
Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should make the payment of £500 and refund the 
fees of £1,200 upon Mr Rs acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman