DRN-3448656
The complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) caused delays to the transfer 
of his pension policy to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider. He 
complains that in calculating the financial loss they have caused him Aviva have offered 
insufficient compensation. 
What happened
In February 2018, Mr N asked to transfer his Aviva pension policy funds to his SIPP. Aviva 
received the initial request on 7 February 2018. 
Aviva wrote to apologise to Mr N for the delays theyd caused on 5 February 2019. They said 
theyd caused a slight delay between April 2018 and May 2018 when they didnt quickly seek 
to update their records of the Trust and Trustee addresses. They also said theyd sent a 
Trustee Declaration that Mr N had requested too late  hed requested this in late November 
2018 but they hadnt sent it until January 2019. Aviva offered Mr N £150 in compensation. 
Mr N said he eventually received his funds on 25 March 2019. Unhappy with the length of 
time the transfer had taken, he complained to Aviva.
Aviva issued a further final response to the complaint on 5 April 2019. They apologised for 
the delays theyd caused. And agreed to arrange a financial loss assessment. They also 
offered increased compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused 
Mr N. Mr N rejected Avivas offer. 
Aviva said they wrote to Mr Ns adviser on 23 April 2019 to request a copy of either the 
contract notes or a transaction report detailing the investments made. They said they wrote 
again on 8 May 2019 as they hadnt received a reply. They said they couldnt assess the 
financial loss without this information. Aviva also wrote chaser letters on 24 May 2019 and 
19 June 2019.  Their June letter noted that they might have to use the date of that letter as 
the point they stop their loss calculation.
Mr N said his adviser wrote to Aviva giving full details of his financial loss on 9 May 2019. 
They had calculated this to be £46,040. 
Aviva replied to Mr Ns adviser to explain that they still needed copy contract notes and full 
details of the investments.
Mr N said Aviva wrote to him on 25 June 2019 to say that they the financial loss assessment 
had been closed for the time being.
On 1 July 2019 Mr Ns adviser sent Aviva full details of one of Mr Ns investments and some 
details of another investment. But Aviva said the documents didnt meet their requirements 
and that theyd closed their file. 
Over the next few months, Mr N provided Aviva with the investment information they 
needed. 
Aviva issued their second final response letter on 27 January 2020. They said that Mr N 
hadnt invested the transferred money until 28 May 2019 (£435,000), 15 May 2019 (£75,000) 
and 15 November 2019 (£75,000). They didnt consider it would be fair or reasonable to 
assess any losses on the £435,000 investment as they hadnt been provided with the 
investment information theyd requested. They felt the dates the monies had been invested 
showed that thered been no urgency and that no action had been taken to mitigate any 
potential investment losses. Regarding the two £75,000 investments for which Mr N had 
provided the investment information theyd requested, Aviva said they couldnt assume that 
he wouldve invested in the same way if hed received the funds earlier.  And that the returns 
hed demonstrated were specific to the investments hed actually made. They also noted that 
the start date of those investments wouldnt have changed even if Mr N had received the 
transferred money earlier. Aviva told Mr N that if he had evidence that he wouldve invested 
differently had he received the transfer earlier, they could potentially review that.
Aviva said that if they hadnt caused any delays they couldve transferred Mr Ns pension 
funds on 11 January 2019. They said the transfer value wouldve been £584,551.17 at this 
time. They arranged for a payment of £1,000.61 in lieu of interest to be made to Mr N to 
cover the period from 11 January 2019 to 25 February 2019. Aviva said theyd already 
added interest of £612.00 when the initial transfer payment was made. Aviva later clarified to 
this service that they had based their interest calculation on the Bank of England base rate 
plus 1%. They said this was the standard rate they use across all interest calculation on 
delayed payments, regardless of whether a complaint is raised or not.
Mr N replied to Aviva on 18 February 2020. He said that the main issue to be resolved was 
the calculation of the financial loss. He didnt agree with Aviva that without the delays theyd 
caused his transfer wouldve completed on 11 January 2019. He also didnt agree that Aviva 
should disregard the financial loss on his £435,000 investment just because they hadnt 
received the information theyd requested in time. He said Aviva didnt reply. So he wrote to 
them again on 14 April 2020.  He wanted the exact details of how theyd calculated the 
interest payment of £1,000.61 referenced in their 27 January 2020 letter. He also wanted 
them to explain how they intended to compensate him. And asked them what they would do 
about the additional costs hed incurred with his adviser. I understand that Mr Ns IFA has 
now agreed to waive their additional costs, so I wont consider this point further in my 
decision.
In June 2020 Mr N brought his complaint to this service. He felt that his loss should be 
calculated using a starting point of 1 April 2018. He also felt that the loss should be based on 
the total amount invested. Mr N also felt that the compensation Aviva had offered for distress 
and inconvenience was unreasonable. Over the course of the complaint, Mr N said he would 
reluctantly be prepared to accept that the total delay caused by Avivas errors was six 
months. And that his loss should be calculated at the rate of 6.25% each year, as this was 
the lowest rate that hed received on the mixture of investments hed invested the transferred 
funds into. 
Our investigator issued his view in July 2021. He felt the complaint should be upheld. He 
considered that the settlement Mr N had requested (a six-month delay, calculated at the rate 
of 6.25% each year) was fair and reasonable. He also felt that Aviva should pay the £250 
compensation theyd offered for distress and inconvenience.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator. They accepted that there were delays in transferring 
the funds. And offered to complete a loss assessment taking out the delays theyd caused. 
But keeping in the delays they considered had been caused by the Trustees. Aviva 
constructed a timeline to assess the date they considered the funds couldve been 
transferred if they hadnt caused any delays.  They said that where theyd received 
correspondence or a call where action needed to be taken, this should be completed within 10 working days. And when this happens and no reply is received, they said they were under 
no obligation to keep chasing for information. Therefore they considered that such delays 
werent their responsibility. Aviva also said that it is the Trustees obligation to keep the 
product provider up to date with changes in name, address and trustees. And that they 
couldnt be held responsible when this doesnt happen. Aviva also said that it wasnt fair of 
our investigator to recommend a growth rate chosen after the event. As this would give Mr N 
the unfair benefit of hindsight. In summary, Aviva felt that the offer theyd made in their 27 
January 2020 final response was fair and correct, based on what had actually happened. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 March 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I dont agree with the period of delay our 
investigator suggested. And nor do I agree with his proposed method for putting things right. 
Ill explain why.
Aviva have accepted some responsibility for the delays Mr N experienced. They said that if 
they hadnt caused any delays, the transfer wouldve completed on 11 January 2019. Mr N 
doesnt consider that Aviva did enough to complete the transfer within a reasonable 
timescale. He feels that although they probably caused a longer delay, he would be 
prepared to accept that they caused six months of the delay. Mr N also feels that his loss 
should be calculated at the rate of 6.25% each year, as this is the lowest rate he said he 
received when he invested the transferred funds. 
Although our investigator felt that Mr Ns request for redress for a six-month delay was 
reasonable, I dont agree without carefully considering which delays Aviva should be held 
responsible for. So I intend to work out how much of the delay couldve been avoided if 
Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably throughout the process. 
I also dont agree with our investigator that Mr Ns request for his financial loss should be 
calculated at the rate of 6.25% each year. Instead, I consider that it would be fairer to use 
one of this services usual indexes for that calculation. This is because I agree with Aviva 
that without evidence that Mr N was definitively going to invest in the funds he eventually 
invested the transferred funds into, we cant be sure what he wouldve done with the funds if 
theyd been transferred without delay. 
Ill first consider the delays Aviva caused.
Which of the delays are Avivas responsibility?
Ive looked carefully at each stage of the process so that I could assess the delays Aviva 
caused. I note that although I wouldnt always suggest that each individual delay in a 
process should be considered  in some cases they arent material to a complaint  in this 
case I have looked at each and every delay to the process that I consider Aviva either 
caused or shouldve avoided. In doing this, I consider that I have reached a verifiable period 
of delay caused by Aviva.
Avivas position is that although they did cause delays, the main issue related to having the 
correct Trustee address. They felt that this was the Trustees responsibility to keep Aviva up 
to date. They also noted that some of the delay was caused by the fact that the 
documentation wasnt signed by all the Trustees.Aviva said that where they received correspondence or a call where action needs to be 
taken, it should be completed within 10 working days.  So all of the delays shown below 
allow for Avivas normal turnaround time of 10 working days. Therefore, I consider that the 
delay calculated here is the minimum delay caused by Aviva.  
The transfer request was received on 7 February 2018. It couldnt be accepted at this time 
as it wasnt signed by the correct authority. But Aviva only wrote to the IFA on 22 February 
2018 to ask for it to be signed by the Trustees who were the policyholder. I acknowledge that 
Mr N has doubts that the 22 February 2018 letter was ever sent. He said it wasnt received 
by his IFA. And that the first letter that the IFA received was dated 27 April 2018. But Ive 
seen no evidence that the 22 February 2018 wasnt sent. On balance of probabilities, I 
consider that it was sent, as it was part of Avivas normal process.
This caused 1 working days delay.
The Trust Deed and Transfer Form were received on 27 April 2018. This was signed by only 
one trustee, not the two required. Aviva said that they were taking action at this time to try to 
locate the correct trustees using online searches and Companies House. But they didnt 
request the scheme Change of Address until 17 May 2018. 
This caused 3 working days delay.
I acknowledge that Mr N feels that Aviva shouldve done more to get the Trustees to update 
their address. It took from 17 May 2018, when they first wrote to the Trustees asking them to 
do this, until 23 October 2018. Mr N has also questioned whether Aviva had actually had any 
problem corresponding with the Trustees. As he said that other people in the same 
arrangement had received pension certificates.
Aviva said that where they request information but receive no reply, they are under no 
obligation to keep chasing for information. Therefore their position is that the Trustees were 
responsible for this part of the delay, as they didnt respond. They also said that it was the 
Trustees obligation to keep the product provider up to date with changes in name, address 
and trustees. And where this doesnt happen, it is not a failing on their part.
Ive carefully considered what happened over this period in order to work out if Aviva should 
be held responsible for any of the delay. On balance, I dont think they should. I say this 
because I agree that it wasnt their responsibility to ensure they held an up to date address 
for the Trustees. So, while I acknowledge that Aviva couldve done more to get the 
confirmation they needed, Ive no evidence that they shouldve done more here. Therefore, 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to hold them responsible for this part of 
the delay.
On 4 June 2018, Mr Ns IFA called Aviva. They explained what they needed and why they 
needed it. Then on 3 August 2018, Mr N called Aviva. He was concerned that hed still not 
received his funds. He said they didnt give him any satisfactory reason for the delay except 
that theyd written to someone. 
Mr N called Aviva again on 15 October 2018. He said that they told him that theyd written to 
the employer associated with the Aviva scheme on 17 August 2018. And that they would 
now write again. He felt that theyd only sent that letter after his 3 August 2018 phone call. 
Aviva said that they wrote to the Trustees again for their change of address after Mr Ns 
October 2018 call. They eventually received what theyd requested on 23 October 2018.
Aviva issued some follow-up documentation on 26 October 2018. But failed to include the 
Trustee Declaration Form. This wasnt sent until 21 January 2019. This caused 58 working days delay.
On 30 January 2019, Aviva received the Trustee Declaration. This was the final requirement 
before payment. But payment wasnt made until 21 March 2019. Mr N said that Aviva 
phoned him on 8 February 2019 to tell him that theyd forgotten to include all of the 
paperwork in the letter to the Trustees and that they would now need to write to the Trustees 
again. He said that they confirmed later that this paperwork was received back on 26 
February 2019. 
This caused 26 working days delay.
Taking all of the delays Aviva caused together, Im satisfied that they are responsible for 88 
working days delay, as detailed above.
When should the transfer have completed?
Aviva said that if their delays were removed from the process, they consider that the 
payment shouldve been made on 11 January 2019. The actual payment was made on 21 
March 2019. 
Mr Ns position is that Aviva caused at least six months of delay to the process.
Based on my assessment of the delays in the previous section, I consider that Aviva caused 
88 working days of delay. 
Based on 88 working days of delay and the known payment date of 21 March 2019, I 
consider that the payment date shouldve been on 14 November 2018. 
Therefore I believe that this date should be used for the redress calculations. And the period 
of redress should be approximately four months.
What has Aviva done to put things right?
Aviva have already paid interest on the amount transferred. They told this service that theyd 
calculated the interest using the Bank of England Base Rate +1%. They said this was the 
standard rate they use across all interest calculations on delayed payments regardless of 
whether a complaint is raised. Aviva also offered Mr N £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they caused him.
Aviva initially calculated the interest on the period between 26 February 2019 and 20 March 
2019. This came to £612.00 which was added to the initial transfer payment. But then Aviva 
recalculated the interest between 11 January 2019 and 25 February 2019 as theyd missed 
this period from their original payment. This came to £1,000.61 and was paid out in the form 
of a cheque on 27 January 2020.
Mr N has asked for an explanation of how Aviva arrived at the amounts calculated. They 
have provided the following information to this service. I include it here as Mr N has 
requested it.
11/01/19: Payment would have been made if Aviva had not delayed
With regards to the interest calculations. Our calculation for the £1006.61 is as follows:
Total Premiums £584,551.17
Total Interest    £1,250.76Tax Retained      £250.15
Net Interest       £1,000.61
Total Refund (net)           £585,551.78
This was calculated at 1% above BoE base rate, which we calculate at a total of 1.75% as 
an average at the time.
Having replicated the interest calculation for the £612 it is as follows:
Total Premiums £584,551.17
Total Interest    £611.15
This was also calculated as 1% above base rate, which we calculated at a total of 1.75% as 
an average at the time. The payment was also rounded up to the nearest £1 
Mr N said that hed offered to accept a reduced delay and a reduced investment return in 
order to try to bring his complaint to an early conclusion. 
Aviva said that their loss assessment and payments had already put Mr N back to the 
correct financial position had their delays not happened. They said that our investigators 
proposal to use Mr Ns suggested interest rate wasnt in line with this services normal 
recommendation. They felt they had already put Mr N back to the same position he wouldve 
been in without their delays. 
Our investigator didnt consider that Aviva had done enough to put things right. He felt that 
Mr N had lost out by not transferring earlier. He acknowledged that even though Mr N hadnt 
invested his transferred funds immediately, he wouldve invested earlier if hed received the 
funds earlier. So he considered that Aviva should pay redress for the lost investment 
opportunity. He felt that the settlement Mr N had requested - based on a six-month delay, 
calculated at the rate of 6.25% each year - was fair and reasonable.
Ive carefully considered how Aviva should put things right. I agree with our investigator that 
Mr N should be compensated for the lost investment return. But I dont agree that Aviva 
should simply take Mr Ns word for what investment return he wouldve received. Or base 
the calculation on what he did receive. I say this because I cant know what investment 
opportunities wouldve been open to Mr N if hed invested four months earlier. This is 
supported by Mr Ns IFA which has confirmed that the returns on the type of investment Mr 
N chose change dependant on the investment opportunity. Instead, I consider that we 
should use this services index which best reflects Mr Ns investment plans. Im satisfied that 
if Aviva had caused no delays, Mr N wouldve been able to invest the transferred funds 
approximately four months earlier. 
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva said they felt that the timeline they originally completed to establish the loss was more 
appropriate in this case. They also maintained that while they accepted that the delays were 
caused by their lack of action, a large part of the timeframe was waiting for the Trustees to 
provide required information. 
Aviva also said that for my recommended redress to be carried out theyd need the value of 
Mr Ns new investment as at 21 March 2019. They said that this might lead to a Change in 
Outcome.Mr N told this service that hed given up a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) when 
he decided to transfer out of Aviva. He said hed wanted to create an income-driven portfolio 
which would provide an income approaching the guaranteed income he wouldve got from 
Aviva. 
Mr N also said that Id been incorrect to state in my provisional decision: I say this because I 
cant know what investment opportunities wouldve been open to Mr N if hed invested four 
months earlier. This was because he said he was always going to invest in the specific fund 
in which hed actually invested £435,000 of the transfer on 28 May 2019. And he said that 
fund was continuously open for investment. Therefore he felt that I should use that particular 
investment as the basis for calculating his loss. 
Mr N also felt that this service should look at the delays as a whole. He felt that my 
assessment of the delays Aviva were responsible for had given Aviva the benefit of the 
doubt. He felt that Aviva was completely responsible for the delays between 23 October 
2018 and 21 March 2019, less the 10 working days they allowed for the process. He said 
that this in itself was 94 working days. He also felt that Aviva should be held responsible for 
more of the delay before 23 October 2018 than Id allowed for in my assessment. 
Mr N told this service he doesnt currently pay tax. He said he didnt understand the logic of 
reducing the redress by a notional tax charge. 
Mr N also said that he couldnt find a value for the index Id said should be used for the 
redress calculation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Aviva to tell me where exactly they disagreed with my analysis of the timeline, noting 
that without any further input on this, I would have no evidence to allow me to change my 
recommendation. They didnt respond. I confirm that my timeline acknowledges that a third 
party caused some of the delay. 
I also asked Aviva to explain exactly what information they felt they needed in order to carry 
out the redress calculation. And I asked them to confirm what they meant about the further 
loss assessment possibly resulting in a change of outcome. They didnt reply. 
As Aviva havent provided any further information, I see no reason to amend the proposed 
redress.
Moving on to Mr Ns points, I acknowledge that Mr N gave up a valuable GAR when he 
decided to transfer out of Aviva. But this was his decision. I also acknowledge that Mr N said 
that he invested the transferred funds in a way that he hoped would replace the income he 
couldve got from Aviva. But I havent considered this point further as I dont consider its 
directly relevant to this decision. I say this because Mr N made this decision before he had 
any problems with the transfer from Aviva. And although I can see that Mr Ns point explains 
why he decided to invest in the way that he did, I cover this in the next point. 
Although Mr N said he was always going to invest in the specific fund that the bulk of his 
transferred funds were invested in on 28 May 2019, he hasnt been able to provide evidence 
that hed made this decision in advance of the completion of the transfer. I consider that if Mr 
N had made such a decision, he wouldve instructed his IFA so that the investment could be 
made as soon as the money was transferred. But this wasnt the case, as the investment wasnt made until more than two months after the transfer completed. Therefore, while I 
acknowledge that Mr N said I made an error when I said in my provisional decision: I cant 
know what investment opportunities wouldve been open to Mr N if hed invested four 
months earlier, I dont agree. It follows that I also dont agree that the redress calculation I 
laid out should be changed to be based on the returns from the fund into which Mr N 
invested most of the transferred funds. I say this because as he hasnt provided evidence 
that he made the decision to invest before the transfer completed, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask Aviva to calculate redress based on the investment he eventually 
chose to make.
Regarding Mr Ns points about the delays he felt Aviva had caused, I agree that Ive used 
the maximum normal turnaround time in my assessment of the delays Aviva were 
responsible for. I said in my provisional decision that this meant that the delay I calculated 
was the minimum delay Aviva had caused. I appreciate that Mr N would prefer a different 
assessment to be made. But I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to calculate the 
delay in any other way. I say this because if Aviva had worked to their maximum normal 
turnaround times at every stage of the process, thered be no grounds for complaint. So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to use a shorter period of time in the assessment. I assessed 
the delays Aviva caused based on the evidence. And Im satisfied that any other method 
would be less fair. 
Mr N told this service that he doesnt pay tax. Ive amended the What must Aviva do? 
section below to reflect this. 
Aviva should provide Mr N with a copy of the redress calculation. This should be as simple 
as possible so it is clear how the redress has been calculated. 
Mr N made a further suggestion regarding how the interest should be added to his redress. I 
considered his proposal but have rejected it on the basis that my redress is based on this 
services usual process.
Having carefully considered all of Mr Ns points, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. I 
remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr N wouldve invested the transferred funds approximately four months earlier if 
Aviva had caused no delays to the transfer. Its not possible to say precisely how he 
wouldve invested the funds, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Aviva do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.Aviva should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Aviva should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr N has told this service that he doesnt pay tax. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, Aviva should subtract from the loss 
calculated the amount of interest theyve already paid Mr N. This calculation cannot 
result in a negative value, and should be subjected to a minimum of zero. 
Pay Mr N £250 for the distress and inconvenience all the delays caused him, unless 
this has already been paid. I acknowledge that Mr N doesnt consider that £250 is 
fair under the circumstances. But I consider that as my redress would put him back 
into the position he shouldve been in, but for Avivas delays, it is reasonable under 
the circumstances.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Aviva should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index14 November 
201821 March 
20198% simple per 
year from my 
final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr N's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman