DRN-2272115
The complaint
Ms S has complained about Phoenix Life Assurance Limited. She says that the redress she 
accepted from Phoenix following its review of her pension sale in 2000, doesnt adequately
compensate her for the benefits shed given up when her occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) was transferred in 1991.
The complaint relates to advice given by Pearl Assurance. Phoenix has taken over the 
liabilities of Pearl Assurance, so Ill refer to Phoenix throughout.
Ms S is represented in this complaint by a relative, but Ill refer to Ms S throughout.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to the parties. In summary:
Ms S was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) from 1980-1986.
In 1991 Phoenix advised her to transfer her OPS into a personal pension plan (PPP).
In 1999 Ms S transferred the PPP to her new employers work placed pension.
In 2000 Phoenix carried out a review of the 1991 sale in line with the industry wide 
Pensions Review.
Phoenix accepted that the pension had been missold and offered redress by way of 
an additional pension plan.
Ms S accepted and a new plan was set up.
Ms S complained to Phoenix in 2019 but it didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to 
this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. She didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She noted that Phoenix accepted that Ms S had suffered a loss due to its advice to 
transfer out of the OPS and into a PPP. It had calculated any loss based on the regulators 
industrywide Pension Review guidance. The regulator provided the methodology on how the 
calculations should be worked out and provided certain assumptions for firms to use. 
The investigator explained that the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations 
havent been met. Actual investment returns have been lower than expected, and interest 
rates and annuity rates have fallen.
The investigator noted that Ms S has demonstrated this loss in the calculations provided to 
this service but explained that this service doesnt provide actuarial services. Phoenix 
calculation can be reviewed but not recalculated. Phoenix was required to conduct the 
review once, using the methodology and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the 
time. This was because the assumptions and methods used were thought to be reasonable 
at the time to assess the future loss. The intention was that the review would draw a line 
under any pension mis-selling issues. So once a firm completed the review, it wasnt 
required to review it again.
In this case, Phoenix had appointed an actuarial firm that specialised in Pension Review 
calculations. All the relevant information regarding the OPS scheme had been obtained and 
considered. The investigator said that there was nothing in the calculations that suggested 
there were errors, so she was satisfied the Pension Review was likely to be correct. The 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) had been factored in. It was also doubtful that the 
original OPS could have been reinstated.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The review was a one-off exercise and Ms S 
had accepted an offer in settlement.
Ms S didnt agree. She said:
Accepting the offer from Phoenix doesnt mean that she has contracted out of a 
statutory right.
Although she had transferred the PPP to her new employers plan before the review, 
it had already suffered several years of damage, and the terms of the new pension 
scheme were inferior to the original OPS.
The option of returning to the OPS wouldve been the fairest redress. Why didnt that 
happen?
Irrespective of whether Phoenix followed the correct procedure at the time, it is only 
in the fullness of time that Ms S can demonstrate the extent of her financial loss 
which Phoenix have already accepted responsibility for. 
The investigator considered the response and put these points to Phoenix. She explained 
that accepting the offer didnt mean Ms S couldnt now complain, as she had done and there 
are no issues about being too late to do so (Phoenix hadnt objected). The terms of the OPS 
meant that reinstatement was not permissible as the scheme closed to new members in 
1998. 
The investigator restated that the review was intended to be a one-off exercise, and since 
the review was completed correctly at the time, Phoenix wouldnt be required to recalculate 
any loss.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this complaint. Im afraid that there is very little 
that I can usefully add to what the investigator has already said.
In this case the advice in question was given almost thirty years ago, in 1991. Ms S 
accepted a settlement over twenty years ago, in 2000. My role is to determine this complaint 
by reference to what is fair and reasonable. In assessing what is fair and reasonable I must 
have regard to the law, relevant industry codes and good industry practice that applied at the 
time.
Ms S agreed a settlement of the claim for pension mis-selling in 2000. That appears to have 
been a full and final settlement. This service would only look beyond that agreement if there were good reasons to do so, such as the offer of redress being incorrect. I dont think that is 
the case here.
The settlement was reached under the terms of the Pension Review. It may be that, with the 
benefit of hindsight, we can now say that Ms S was undercompensated. But that isnt a 
sufficient reason to reopen the issues. I must have regard to what was good industry 
practice at the time, and so, if Phoenix did follow the guidance from the regulator in the 
Pension Review, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to reconsider the advice, or the offer of 
redress now.
Ms S accepted an offer from Phoenix in 2000. That offer appears to have been calculated in 
accordance with the regulators requirements at the time. Specialist actuaries were used. 
Whilst ideally, she would have re-joined the original OPS, this wasnt possible at the time of 
the review as it has been confirmed that the OPS was closed to new entrants.
There are no apparent errors in the data that was used for the calculation and so this service 
wouldnt direct that redress be recalculated. Phoenix was only required to carry out the 
review once, based on assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time (such as on future 
investment returns). The fact that these assumptions may not have been achieved is not 
grounds for this service to direct it to redo the calculation. 
Unfortunately for many consumers, including Ms S, this can be a significant cause of further 
loss. Im sorry Ms S has lost out, and I can understand that she feels a true sense of 
injustice. She no doubt accepted the offer she was made in good faith. But, equally, the offer 
appears to have been calculated in correctly at the time and no doubt made in good faith 
and in accordance with the regulators guidance. The calculations depended on predictions 
of future events, like investment performance, and the regulator provided certain 
assumptions. As weve said, unfortunately, these assumptions have not actually turned out 
to be accurate. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman