DRN-3102370
The complaint
Mr G complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly increased his credit limit on his account 
which was unaffordable
What happened
Mr G says MBNA irresponsibly increased the credit limit on his credit card account without 
carrying out affordability checks. He says his current account was overdrawn at the time and 
his was using the MBNA account to withdraw cash to pay into his current account. Mr G 
would like the interest suspended and an apology for what took place.
MBNA says the account was opened in 2011 and Mr G declared an income of £30,000 with 
a household income of a further £30,000. It says the credit limit was increased in 2016 and it 
carried out appropriate checks which showed Mr G had limited debts. It also says it 
considered Mr Gs account management which was appropriate. MBNA says Mr G didnt tell 
it about any financial concerns until 2020.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought the credit limit increase was significant from £6,000 to £11,000 and that the account 
summary showed that Mr G was in some difficulties. The investigator didnt think Mr G had 
used the account for purchases leading up to the credit limit increase and was paying about 
£30 to £40 more than the interest per month. The investigator recommended MBNA refund 
interest and charges from February 2016 and pay £300 compensation for the distress 
caused.
MBNA doesnt accept that view and says Mr G has benefited from balance transfers and 
says its checks revealed a very low level of overall debt.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I had come to the provisional 
view that MBNA hasnt acted unfairly or made a mistake by increasing the credit limit of Mr 
Gs account.
I explained that lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any lending or credit facility. Those checks will of course vary depending on the 
type and amount of that lending. This was a credit facility that had been in place for some 
four years before the credit limit increase and so I wouldnt have expected MBNAs checks to 
have been as detailed here as for example a new application or a mortgage.
I appreciated Mr G says that MBNA didnt carry out any affordability checks. So, I looked 
carefully at MBNAs records and am satisfied it looked at information from the Credit 
Reference Agencies in 2016 and did carry out checks on Mr Gs debt levels. I could see that, 
based on the information MBNA received, Mr Gs debt levels were low. And that it 
appropriately considered Mr Gs account management which I thought was appropriate. So, 
I was satisfied MBNA did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before offering to 
increase Mr Gs credit limit. And although the increase was relatively significant, I was 
satisfied it gave Mr G a credit facility of £11,000 which I think was relatively low compared to 
Mr Gs household income of about £60,000 and his relatively low overall debt.
I appreciated Mr G says he was in financial difficulties and so I looked at his credit file. I 
couldnt see any evidence of financial difficulties on it such as missed payments, defaults or 
County Court Judgements at the time of the credit limit increase or before and after. I also 
appreciated Mr G may not have used his MBNA account for purchases leading up to the 
credit limit increase, but I didnt think that would lead MBNA to conclude there were signs of 
financial difficulties. I could see signs of financial difficulties on the credit file but some years 
after the 2016 increase. 
I said I would consider any further evidence Mr G would like to send me such as his bank 
account statements from the time of the increase. I said I wouldnt have expected MBNA to 
have requested them or known what they showed, and I didnt think it clear on the face of it 
why Mr G says he was in the financial difficulties he says he was in. I said that as it appears 
from his credit file and his contact with MBNA that his financial problems took place in 2020 
which was some four years after the credit limit was increased.
I appreciated what the investigator says about the use of the balance transfers and that it 
would be unfair to consider that Mr G benefited from them. I didnt think it necessary for me 
to comment on that point and agreed with what the investigator said. I made clear that I 
looked at the checks MBNA carried out and considered if they were reasonable and 
proportionate for the type and amount of lending. I also considered that for some time after 
the credit limit increase Mr G managed his account appropriately by making all required 
payments. I thought that provided further evidence that at the time of the increase, it was 
affordable.
Overall my provisional view was that MBNA didnt irresponsibly increase Mr Gs credit limit to 
an unaffordable level. I made clear that I would of course consider any further evidence Mr G 
may wish to provide us such us details of the other debts he says he had as well as his bank 
account statements from and after the credit limit increase date in 2016. I also hoped MBNA 
would provide actual copies of the account statements rather than the summary of 
transactions.
MBNA has replied to my provisional decision and provided actual copies of the account 
statements.
Mr G says his bank account statements shows he was overdrawn but he hasnt provided 
them although says he could. He has confirmed the family income and says MBNA didnt 
ask about his overdraft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall decision I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate Mr G says he could provide his account statements, but I of course havent seen 
them and, in any event, have made clear that I wouldnt have expected MBNA to have 
requested them. I can see from Mr Gs credit file that there isnt any adverse information 
reported about his bank account. I still dont think it clear what Mr Gs financial difficulties were in or around 2016 as I have not seen evidence of significant debts and have not seen 
any signs of such difficulties on the credit file.
Overall, I find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman