DRN-3614524
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs F have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to 
close their cafes due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs F held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. They operate two 
cafes.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 they 
closed the cafes in March 2020. 
Mr G and Mrs F claimed on the policy. RSA declined the claim. It said that, while the policy 
covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable disease at the premises, Mr G and 
Mrs F hadnt shown that Covid-19 was manifest at the premises before Government 
restrictions came into force. It also said there was no cover under the denial of access 
section of the property as there had been no damage to property.
Mr G and Mrs F brought their complaint to our service. They made the following points:
They flew home early from a holiday abroad on 18 March. Prior to the cafe closing on 
20 March 2020 they were on the premises and displaying symptoms of Covid-19. 
During the following days more members of their family became unwell.
A close relative of their chef who helped him with childcare had been hospitalized 
with Covid-19. The chef had symptoms of Covid-19.
They thought Covid-19 had manifested itself on the premises before they were forced 
to close.
Our Investigator looked into Mr G and Mrs Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. He didnt think Mr G and Mrs F had shown their cafes had closed due to a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. 
Mr G and Mrs F asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr G and Mrs Fs business. But I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim.
The most relevant part of Mr G and Mrs Fs policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this section to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the 
business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely Mr G and Mrs F closed their cafes 
because there was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. As with any 
insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that 
its more likely than not that theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. A mere suspicion that 
a policyholder might have a valid claim is not enough in these circumstances.
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Mr G and Mrs Fs 
policy  required there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take 
place without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to 
have manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given 
some other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the 
premises. It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic 
individual to have sustained the disease and been on the premises. 
Mr G and Mrs F have provided the following evidence to support the fact that Covid-19 had 
manifested on the premises before they closed their business due to government 
restrictions.
Evidence of their holiday abroad in March 2020.
Information from their landlord about its staff in the building whod had to self-isolate 
in April 2020 and 2021 because of Covid-19 cases.
Evidence that theyd both tested negative for Covid-19 in August/September 2020.
Mr G and Mrs F said they became ill on 19 March 2020 while on the premises with a runny 
nose, cough, tiredness and aches. But they havent been able to provide any evidence that 
they had symptoms of Covid-19 whilst at the premises such as emails, text or WhatsApp 
messages. And they hadnt been tested at that point. They also havent been able to provide 
any evidence regarding their chef. I have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell 
at this time (including people whod recently been abroad) didnt have Covid-19. Given that I 
only have their testimony to support this part of the claim, I dont have enough evidence to 
conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
The other evidence theyve provided relates to the period after the cafes had closed. So it 
doesnt support their case that there was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the 
premises before they closed.  
RSA also considered the claim under the Denial of Access section of the policy which covers 
loss caused by:
Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises by any of the insured Events which A) hinders or prevents the use of the Premises or access to them or
B) causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity of the Premises 
whether the Property used by You for the purpose of the Business shall be damaged 
or not.
Damage is defined as Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
So, there might be a valid claim under this section if there has been Damage to property in 
the vicinity of the premises, by something which would be covered under the policy and 
which prevented or hindered access to or use of the premises or caused a fall in the number 
of customers. 
I note the requirement is that this damage must occur to Property. The term Property is 
defined in the policy as Material property but shall not include Data. Given the context in 
which it is used I consider this most likely refers to physical property. I also consider this is 
the conclusion a reasonable person would come to when reading the policy at the time Mr 
G and Mrs F took it out. I think damage to physical property must inherently be physical 
damage. And I havent seen any evidence that property in the vicinity of their premises, 
was physically damaged as a result of Covid-19 or the Governments restrictions. I also 
dont think a temporary loss of use of their premises can properly be considered as 
damage to property. It follows that RSA was correct to say their claim is not covered under 
this part of the policy.
So, I dont consider the requirements of the relevant part of the policy to have been met. I 
appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr G and Mrs F. But, having considered the 
matter carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman