DRN-2612238
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. She isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim and avoided her motor insurance policy (treated it as if it never existed).
  
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mrs B took out her motor insurance policy with Ageas through her broker. The policy auto 
renewed but when she made a claim following a minor scrape in June 2019 Ageas looked 
into the claim and undertook a few enquiries about her and her partners driving history. This 
took a while and Mrs B decided against continuing with this claim as it was minor but, 
unfortunately, she was involved in a further accident about a month later.
Eventually, Ageas decided shed answered the question that was asked when the policy was 
originally taken out incorrectly and she didnt correct any of the details provided in her 
statement of fact that was sent out at the time of renewal. The majority of detail not provided 
related to her partner (Mr B) who was a named driver on the policy. And Ageas considered 
this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the 
policy and decline the claims.
As Mrs B wasnt happy about this she complained to this service. Our investigator eventually 
decided that the complaint should be upheld. Although she accepted that there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation she thought that it was careless as opposed to deliberate or 
reckless. And as the majority of the claims and fixed penalty points only related to her 
partner, the named driver, she thought that it shouldve removed him from the policy, kept 
Mrs B on cover and dealt with the claim on a proportionate basis. 
Ageas didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the relevant case law that Ageas has looked to rely on is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  which I will discuss generally  there 
is a key element to this case that hasnt been picked up on and advanced to date which I will 
elaborate on as it is a key issue in this case. This is the fact that Mrs B told Ageas about her 
true driving position and that Mr B shouldnt be on the policy a month before the July 
incident. And yet Ageas didnt do anything about this or advise Mrs B that she could simply 
remove him from the policy.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ageas thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she didnt verify her partners previous speeding fixed penalties and claims history with him. 
Or disclose a fixed penalty of her own.
Ive looked at all the circumstances and details surrounding this case and the matter is 
clouded by the fact that Mrs B was going through a difficult separation throughout the time of 
claim and renewal. And that seems to have impacted Mrs Bs level of knowledge about Mr B 
and his driving history especially as their relationship was strained. So, I think that Mrs B 
didnt take reasonable care when answering the questions when the policy was first taken 
out and I agree that the misrepresentation was careless as outlined by our investigator.
But what troubles me in this case is that Mrs B clearly gave Ageas an accurate and up to 
date picture of her own driving history, and the fact that her partner didnt need to be on 
cover, when she reported the first information only incident and Ageas didnt take any action.
Indeed, Mrs B clearly said that Mr B didnt need to be on the policy at that point in time and 
hadnt needed to be for quite a while as he simply didnt drive the car and they were getting 
divorced. Ageas outlined that Mrs B alluded that he wasnt going to be on the policy moving 
forward in its correspondence with her at a later stage. So I think it is clear that Ageas 
shouldve acted at this point in time and removed Mr B from cover. And I think it had a 
responsibility to probe this issue with Mrs B, or any consumer in Mrs Bs position, given the 
potentially vulnerable position they could be in.
Had Ageas have done this then Mrs B wouldve been fully insured in her own right either 
with Ageas or with another insurer at the time of the second incident. And this would have 
meant that Mrs B wasnt put through all the difficulties that she subsequently faced.
As such, I think that Ageas should do all it can to put Mrs B back into the position she 
shouldve been but for its error. So, it should look to ensure that it takes responsibility for the 
claim Mrs B was involved in and take over all third party costs and the debts that Mrs B has 
incurred because of this. And it should look to provide Mrs B with a letter explaining that it 
cancelled her policy in error so that she can look to get her new insurance at a reduced 
price.
This is, in effect, all Mrs B wants. However, I think she has been put to an awful lot of stress, 
worry and trouble because of the actions, or lack of, of Ageas. But Mrs B was taken to court 
by the third party and had a Crown Court Judgement (CCJ) set against her at one stage. 
Fortunately she managed to get a solicitor to represent her for free who got the judgement 
set aside and arranged an affordable repayment plan. But this caused Mrs B a great deal of 
worry at an already difficult time and when she was in a very difficult financial position. And I 
understand that she has had to rely on her family for help generally and financially.
So, in addition to trying to put Mrs B back into the position she shouldve been but for the 
error in not making sure her cover was correct when it shouldve done. I think it should pay 
Mrs B £1,500 compensation.Replies and developments
Both sides have responded to my provisional decision. Generally Mrs B has accepted the 
decision and wants to look to finalise things and put this difficult episode behind her.
While Ageas has mentioned a number of factors that Ive already considered and sent 
copies of a number of phone calls it had with Mrs B. 
Ageas said it is disappointed that there has been another decision by this service. And 
suggested that Mrs B knew that she had to get her husband to call in order to validate his 
driving history and so it wasnt responsible for any delay between the first and second claim.
It said again that Mrs B was responsible for not giving it all the correct information when the 
policy was taken out and that it couldnt offer any advice before the policy was validated. And 
said that Mr B had an insurable interest in the car and Mrs B said he was just a driver and 
was still living at her address, so he needed to stay on cover. 
Ageas also said that all changes had to be made through the broker. And that any 
discussion around the claim should be directed to the claims department and said it was for 
Mrs B to decide whether Mr B should be deleted from the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although our investigator initially agreed with Ageas position she considered the matter in 
more detail and formed the view that although there was a qualifying misrepresentation she 
thought that it was careless as opposed to deliberate or reckless. And as the majority of the 
claims and fixed penalty points only related to Mrs Bs partner, the named driver, she 
thought it shouldve removed him from the policy, kept Mrs B on cover and dealt with the 
claim on a proportionate basis.
I know Ageas is disappointed that the position has changed but it requested that the matter 
be looked at by an ombudsman and I formed a different view. I accept some of what it has 
outlined in its further representations. However, at the very least it shouldve done as our 
investigator said and just removed Mr B from cover rather than turn down Mrs Bs claim and 
put her through quite an ordeal. But, as outlined above, I dont think that goes far enough.
I still think that Mrs B was clear about her circumstances after the first claim that she chose 
not to advance. And Ageas couldve helped her at that point in time and given her clear 
advice. 
Ageas has said that it was Mrs Bs decision to change the policy or remove Mr B from cover 
and I understand its point. But it was clear that Mrs B was in a difficult relationship when she 
first called about a possible claim and I think the fair thing to do was to advise her that Mr B 
could be removed from cover if she wished. I say this as she made it abundantly clear that 
he didnt drive the car and so didnt need to be on cover. And I think if she was made aware 
at that point in time that she was able to do this, and the potential difficulties she may face if 
she didnt, then she would have taken steps to remove Mr B from cover and ensure the car 
was registered in her name. Thus, avoiding the later difficulties she faced. I certainly dont 
think it was fair to leave Mrs B driving round when it was clear her insurance details were 
incorrect, and her policy needed updating.  Indeed, Ageas suggests that it couldnt advise Mrs B or provide any details to her. Yet Ive 
listened to a call when it clarified what the difference in premium would be just after the initial 
incident. And its agent told the broker it would pass the information on to Mrs B so that she 
could act once Mr Bs driving endorsements were known. Im not aware if its agent spoke to 
Mrs B. But I think it is clear that it couldve made Mrs B aware that she couldve chosen to 
take Mr B off cover, especially given the delay in validating the policy which was caused by 
the relationship breakdown.
So, although I accept it was up to Mrs B to decide whether to remove Mr B from cover I dont 
think it was fair not to advise her about this so she could make an informed choice. Mrs B 
was very clear in her first notification call that Mr B didnt drive the car and that their 
relationship had broken down. 
Given all of this, I still think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for the complaint to be upheld. 
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas 
Insurance Limited to; 
look to ensure it takes responsibility for the claim Mrs B was involved in and take 
over all third party costs and debts that Mrs B has incurred because of this,
provide Mrs B with a letter explaining that it cancelled her policy in error so that she 
can look to get her new insurance at a reduced price, and 
pay Mrs B £1,500 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman