DRN-2772449
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (Tappily) gave him unaffordable loans. 
And that Tappily kept increasing his credit limit whilst he was already indebted to it. 
What happened
In its final response letter (FRL), Tappily agreed that it shouldnt have lent to Mr B. It offered 
to refund all the interest Mr B paid to his facility, along with 8% simple interest. It also agreed 
to remove any unpaid interest from the current outstanding balance. Finally, Tappily also 
offered to remove any adverse information it recorded about the facility from Mr Bs credit 
file.
Mr B was unhappy with Tappilys offer so he asked our service to investigate his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. He asked Tappily if its offer was still 
available to Mr B and it confirmed it was.  The adjudicator thought Tappilys offer was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint as the offer to settle the complaint 
would have been in-line with our services recommendations, had this service upheld the 
complaint. So, he didnt think Tappily needed to do any more than what it had already 
offered.
It appears that Tappily agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and made the following points;
 
Mr B does not believe Tappilys offer to be a fair offer. 
Mr B says his credit limit shouldn't have doubled from £500 to £1,00 within five days 
of the facility being granted. 
Mr B believes Tappily didn't complete sufficient checks to increase his credit limit that 
quickly.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
I note that Mr Bs complaint is mainly about his credit limit and the increased amounts that 
Tappily offered him in a short period of time. Furthermore, Mr B says Tappily did not do 
enough to check that he could afford these increases to his credit limit.
In Tappilys FRL, it agreed that it shouldnt have lent to Mr B from the outset. It offered to 
refund the interest that Mr B paid towards his loans, along with 8% simple interest  as a 
matter of compensation for the money being out of his pocket. Tappily also agreed to 
remove any negative information it recorded about the facility from Mr Bs credit file. 
Tappily has already agreed that something went wrong when it provided Mr Bs facility (as 
well as any future credit limit increases). And Im satisfied that Tappilys offer is in-line with 
our services recommendations if we were to uphold a complaint in full if we believed a 
lender shouldnt have approved a credit facility. 
So, I dont think there is a need for me to consider what checks it did or didnt do and what 
they may have shown it. I say this because, as Ive outlined above, Tappily has already 
accepted it shouldnt have given Mr B the credit facility because it has offered to make the 
facility interest free. 
I acknowledge that this will leave Mr B with an outstanding principal loan balance to repay. 
But when out service considers complaints about unaffordable lending, which is what this 
complaint is about, we try and put the consumer back into the position they wouldve been in 
had the error not been made. However, that isnt always possible, as is the case here. 
When putting things right, wed expect the lender to refund any interest and charges that 
have been added, so in effect it gives a consumer an interest free loan or facility. But we 
would expect the consumer to have repaid (or to repay) any capital that they borrowed  
after all they had had the benefit of the money. 
In this case, the offer that Tappily has made does this for Mr B. I appreciate he is unhappy 
an outstanding balance remains, but unfortunately, this is due to him not having repaid the 
capital borrowing that he took, and I dont think in this case, Tappily needs to make an 
adjustment to the capital amount outstanding. 
So, I think Tappilys offer is fair and reasonable. And Im not going to ask it to do any more 
than what it has already offered. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, but I hope 
that hell understanding why Ive reached the findings that I have.
Putting things right for Mr B
If Tappily has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps (if it hasnt done so already). If Tappily is not able to buy the 
debts back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
And in line with what Tappily has agreed to do;
Refund the interest that Mr B has paid 
Add 8% simple interest to this sum taking into account the tax to be deducted*
Remove accrued interest from the current outstanding balance
Use the interest refund to offset the outstanding balance
Any adverse credit file information will be removed from Mr Bs credit file.  
Based on what Tappily has said in the FRL, Mr B as of 23 April 2020 still has a principal 
balance of £926.84 left to repay. And Id remind Tappily of its obligation to treat Mr B fairly 
when dealing with him in repaying this sum. *HM Revenue & Customs requires Tappily to deduct tax from this interest. Tappily should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, the offer Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Tappily) which is 
outlined above is fair and reasonable to put things right for Mr B and it doesnt have to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman