DRN-1735637
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of duplicated car insurance.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Tesco decided not to pursue a chargeback and I can appreciate why it did so. I suspect the 
merchant would have disputed it and success was unlikely. However, I believe it is 
appropriate to consider a claim under S 75. 
S 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases of 
goods or services. Under S 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider 
of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For S 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain
There is no suggestion the required chain has been broken so it falls to me to consider if 
there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Tesco has argued that the car insurance policy Mr B paid for was provided and so there was 
no breach of contract or misrepresentation. I think that misses the point. Mr B has said he 
was told that his existing policy didnt proved the necessary cover and that he needed to 
take out additional cover. It is his claim that this requirement was incorrect and so his need 
to spend an extra £391.21 on another policy was misrepresentation. If that was the case 
then I believe that would be misrepresentation within S 75.
I have seen the agreement Mr B entered into when he arranged the overseas car hire. It is 
not a model of clarity and makes use of abbreviations, but it is clear that it includes third 
party liability and collision damage insurance. It refers to an excess of €1,875, though later 
on it refers to this being covered a by a refundable excess program if Supercover is taken 
out. Mr B says he paid for extra cover, but it is not clear if he had Supercover.
Mr B has said that when he was collecting the car he was told the existing insurance he had 
bought wasnt valid in the country of hire and he had to take out an additional policy which 
he then did. We are reliant on his testimony and while additional documentary evidence 
would be helpful, I see no grounds for discounting what Mr B has told this service and 
Tesco.
The bank has posited alternative scenarios and suggested that with a language barrier there 
may have been some confusion. It suggested that Mr B may have taken out the extra policy 
to reduce the deposit held on his credit card. It also said that the additional policy carried a 
smaller excess which tempted Mr B to take it out. None of these possibilities are supported 
by evidence from the merchant. 
While these are possibilities Mr B has provided what I consider to be credible and consistent 
testimony as to what happened. I cannot see that he would have taken out additional and 
relatively expensive cover if he had not been persuaded that he was required to do so. I 
think that, on balance, the requirement was misrepresented and Mr B has a valid claim. As 
such I consider it fair and reasonable to accept his testimony and to uphold his complaint.
Putting things right
 I consider the claim should be upheld.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
refund £391.21 plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date paid the sum until it is 
repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman