DRN-3098340
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE settled a claim he made under the 
Rent Guarantee & Legal Expenses part of a Commercial Plus policy.  
What happened
Mr W rents out a property and at the end of 2018 sought possession as the tenant was in 
default with rental payments. Vacant possession was obtained in September 2019, but Great 
Lakes refused to pay part of the claim under the rent protection section. Great Lakes said 
Mr W hadnt got the tenancy agreement signed by all parties when it was renewed in 2014 
and there wasnt a satisfactory tenant reference sought either. In particular, the tenant had 
been in situ since 2013 at which time there was a guarantor for the 2013/14 tenancy. But at 
renewal in 2014 a further tenant background check hadnt been done. 
Our investigator explained that the policy defined what was meant by a tenant reference. 
Included within this definition it said where a tenant had been in tenancy for at least 12 
months prior to the date of the policy, with no record of arrears or disputes, the need for 
checks to be made can be waived. The investigator pointed out that the tenant hadnt 
changed between 2013 and 2018 when the dispute arose, and the policy was silent on 
checks to be done when a tenancy renewed. Overall, he said the tenancy checks werent 
required when the tenancy renewed in 2014 as there hadnt been any disputes or arrears in 
the previous 12 months. And unless Great Lakes could show otherwise the tenancy checks 
werent a requirement and so Great Lakes had unfairly declined the rent protection part of 
the claim. He said Great Lakes should reassess that part of the claim ignoring the absence 
of tenancy checks.
Mr W accepted the investigators opinion, but Great Lakes hasnt replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The requirement of a tenant reference is common to the type of policy Mr W had. 
Understandably, an insurer wants to reduce the risk of it having to pay out claims and so 
places a requirement on the insured to carry out some checks to ensure the financial viability 
of the tenant to meet rental payments. And of course, its reasonable that this is done before 
the start of the tenancy. 
The tenancy commenced in 2013 with relevant checks and a guarantor, this isnt in dispute. 
It renewed in 2014 and default on payment didnt occur until 2018, so there had been over 
five years of possession before defaulting on rent. In its final response, Great Lakes said the 
guarantor was only in place for one year and so not guaranteeing the 2014 tenancy 
onwards. But for the following reasons I dont think thats relevant to Great Lakes rejecting 
the rent protection part of Mr Ws claim;
- The policy doesnt require a guarantor 
- Its silent on steps when renewing tenancy. 
- The same tenant was in occupancy between 2013 and 2018
- There were no apparent issues with arrears or disputes between 2013 and 2018. 
- The policy permitted waiver of tenancy checks where the tenant had been in tenancy 
for at least 12 months with no record of dispute or arrears. 
Its of course pertinent that a tenant should be able to prove their income is enough to pay 
the rent. I havent seen the tenancy check from 2013 but Im mindful that five years passed 
without dispute or default. Great Lakes has not brought any default issues to our attention. 
Additionally, it dealt with the legal expenses part of the claim in seeking possession of the 
property. So, its had ample opportunity to raise further doubts about Mr Ws claim and the 
tenants ability to pay, if it had any beyond the lack of a tenancy reference. The fact of five 
years rental payments without issue is persuasive evidence that the tenant had enough 
means to meet the rental payments in 2014 and thereafter. 
Having thought carefully about everything thats been provided Im satisfied Great Lakes 
hasnt fairly considered Mr Ws claim and its rejection of the rent protection part is unfair.    
Putting things right
Great Lakes must now consider the rent protection part of Mr Ws claim in accordance with 
the remaining policy terms, excluding those relating to tenancy references, guarantor and 
tenancy agreement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to consider the rent protection 
part of Mr Ws claim as described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman