DRN-3109415
The complaint
Mr W complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr W was given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR Total amount 
payable 
August 
2015£7,500 60
months£279.25 44.9% £16,755
When he brought his complaint to us Mr W had mostly paid the loan and there were 
only a couple of instalments left to pay. One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws 
complaint. He didnt think that TFS shouldve provided the loan to Mr W and he set out 
the steps that TFS needed to take to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said that it believed Mr W had shown he was managing his finances, 
by consolidating some of his debt, to release some income to have at his disposal, allowing 
him to not to have to consider short term lending with pay day lending. It told us that the 
checks TFS carried out were proportionate and it was satisfied TFS had an accurate 
understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances and it made a fair lending decision. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Mr W applied for the loan, TFS asked about his income. After looking at a payslip TFS 
did some calculations and recorded that Mr Ws average monthly income was approximately 
£1,763. It asked Mr W about his regular expenditure and did its own credit checks to find out 
about his credit history. TFS allowed for his spending on credit commitments and kept in 
mind that the loan was intended to pay some of Mr Ws existing debt. TFS worked out that 
Mr W should still expect to have around £61 in disposable income after paying his TFS loan. 
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. But I dont think 
TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr W based on the information it had 
gathered. Despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr W had spare cash 
each month, I agree with our investigator that although the loan mightve looked affordable to 
TFS, this information appeared to be at odds with the information it had gathered showing 
warning signs that Mr W had been struggling to manage his finances for some time. 
I dont think that anything Mr W said was enough to explain the extent of his reliance on 
expensive credit that TFS was aware of. TFS understood that Mr W had been in reasonably 
paid steady work for the last five years and he was single, with no dependants and living 
with his parents - so he had only limited responsibility for many of the usual household costs. 
Despite this, TFS could see from its credit checks that Mr W had maxed out credit cards and 
expensive unsecured loans from other high cost credit providers  and that seemed to have 
been an established situation for some time. I think what it saw raised important questions 
about why someone in Mr Ws circumstances needed to rely to this extent on expensive 
credit.Additionally, this was an expensive loan that Mr W was signing up to pay back by way of 
substantial monthly repayments for the next five years. The monthly cost presented a high 
risk of becoming unsustainable over the term of the loan. TFS checks needed to be 
borrower focused which means it needed a thorough understanding of Mr Ws financial 
circumstances to be satisfied he could afford the loan in a way that would be sustainable for 
him. 
So I think TFS should have carried out more in-depth checks and taken additional steps to 
verify Mr Ws financial situation before agreeing to provide the loan. TFS hasnt shown me 
it did this. This means I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before 
agreeing to lend this loan. So I've thought carefully about what TFS is likely to have found 
out had it done a proportionate check  and whether this information was likely to have 
affected the lending decision it made.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr W which I think give a useful insight into 
understanding Mr Ws overall financial situation at the time. I think if TFS had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve likely seen more information showing that 
there was a real risk that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable over the loan 
term. 
I say this because if TFS had gained a better understanding of Mr Ws finances and his use 
of credit, it would have seen more evidence that Mr W had an established record of taking 
out expensive high cost credit and short-term loans  he had taken out loans more or less 
every month throughout 2015. I think our investigator was right to say that Mr Ws borrowing 
pattern clearly appeared to show that he was in a cycle of borrowing-repaying-borrowing 
again from multiple other short term lenders. 
Like our investigator, I think this pattern of short-term borrowing strongly suggests Mr W was 
already having serious money problems and he depended on taking out new credit to 
supplement his income. And when Mr W applied for this loan he was already making 
repayments to at least five other providers of high cost credit  including some that TFS may 
not have known about from the limited checks it had done. 
If TFS had done a proportionate check it would likely have seen that it had over-inflated the 
amount Mr W had actually earned in the three months running up to him taking out this loan. 
His bank statements show his average take home pay during this period was £1,516  and 
in one of those months his net pay was just £1,000. Not only did this fall short of the figure of 
£1,763 TFS used in its affordability assessment, notably it was less than the total 
expenditure figure of around £1,702 that TFS had worked out for Mr W  which I think helps 
explain the reliance on credit that was shown on the credit report TFS obtained. 
Mr Ws bank statements reveal other information which confirmed the extent of his financial 
difficulty  he was persistently overdrawn and paying both arranged and unarranged 
overdraft fees, despite his extensive reliance on expensive credit. In the month running up to 
this loan he was paying five other short-term and high cost credit lenders and also gambling 
whilst significantly overdrawn and stuck in persistent overdraft. I think this is all information 
that a proportionate check would likely have revealed and it further highlighted the already 
evident risk that Mr W was unlikely to be able to sustainably afford the loan repayment for 
this TFS loan. So, this leads me to conclude that TFS shouldnt have provided it.  
Despite the fact that a large part of the loan was intended for debt consolidation, overall this 
doesnt affect my view. Even if Mr W had used part of this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think TFS was 
safely able to say this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
Also, I think the scale of his debts, bearing in mind that not all the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation in any event, and the extent of his evident money problems and apparent 
reliance on short-term loans and high cost credit, would suggest that Mr W would remain in 
serious financial trouble regardless.
I think, as a responsible lender, had TFS seen all this information, it should have realised 
that its loan would simply add to Mr Ws financial difficulties (and all the indications I can see 
on his more recent credit report are that this reasonably foreseeable outcome is what 
happened). 
To my mind, if it had done a proportionate check, I think TFS shouldve realised that Mr W 
was not in a position to sustainably repay a high-cost loan with repayments of around £279 
each month. So, it follows that I dont think TFS should have agreed to provide this loan to 
Mr W in these circumstances. 
To sum up, overall, I dont think TFS did enough to be reasonably satisfied that providing this 
loan to Mr W wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts and adding 
to his money problems. 
I dont think TFS assessed affordability in a way that was fair and reasonable or that if TFS 
had done a proportionate check it would have seen anything to support its view that this was 
a fair lending decision. 
The information it should have found out by doing a proportionate check would have clearly 
demonstrated that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable. 
So I dont think TFS shouldve provided this loan. 
As Mr W has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. 
So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly towards Mr W in any other 
way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ws credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman