DRN-4465723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society did not register a Lasting Power of 
Attorney (LPOA).
Mr and Mrs P are represented by their son in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, 
Ill refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr and Mrs P 
themselves.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have had a LPOA set up since 2015 and they believe this was registered with 
Nationwide at the time. As their health deteriorated, their son became more involved in their 
banking, but he encountered problems as the process wasnt smooth, so he started using 
the Nationwide application (app) to move money for them. Mr and Mrs P say that during a 
discussion on the phone between Nationwide and their son, Nationwide said there was no 
LPOA despite his son talking about their finances with them multiple times previously, and 
he was prevented from using the app. The LPOA needed to be re-registered which their son 
says this took him over 16 hours to do. Mr and Mrs P made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. They said there were no records of the 
LPOA being registered before October 2022, and there is no evidence to suggest a 
Nationwide error delayed or increased the time it took to complete the registration process. 
They said LPOAs cant view the accounts they hold the LPOA for in their app as these can 
only be viewed via internet banking. Nationwide said they were unable to locate a recorded 
conversation in which a call handler told Mr and Mrs Ps son that he would be able to view 
their accounts in the app. Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator said Nationwide said there was an informal agreement that allowed Mr and 
Mrs Ps son to discuss information on Mr Ps account in 2021. While their son may have 
been able to transfer funds from Mr and Mrs Ps accounts, this was due to him having login 
details for their accounts. She said attorneys cant use the Nationwide app, but their son may 
be able to use internet banking to manage their finances. Mr and Mrs P asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr and Mrs Ps complaint points. And Im not 
going to respond to every single point made by them. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our 
rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make it clear that Im only able to award compensation to the eligible complainants 
here. In this complaint this is only Mr and Mrs P and not their son. Our rules dont allow me 
to consider any distress and inconvenience awards to an attorney in carrying out their role 
as an attorney. These individuals are authorised in law to represent consumers, but we 
wouldnt award compensation for impact caused to them personally. Having an attorney can 
also shield the eligible complainants from detriment. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs Ps son made a complaint to Nationwide regarding a complaint he 
made to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Nationwide have offered Mr and Mrs 
Ps son £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs Ps son has had. 
As mentioned in my previous paragraph, Im unable to award Mr and Mrs Ps son directly 
any compensation for distress and inconvenience. Nationwide have confirmed the DSAR 
was just in Mr and Mrs Ps sons name only. No DSAR was requested in his parents name. 
This is also apparent from the information Mr and Mrs Ps son sent us in February 2023 and 
the DSAR is just in his name. So he may wish to contact Nationwide if he wants to accept 
this compensation. 
While the LPOA was set up in 2015, Ive not seen any evidence that this was registered 
directly with Nationwide. They have managed to check an archive system for the current 
account in 2015 and they have confirmed that it isnt showing that a POA (or LPOA) had 
been registered. They have said that if there was an attorney registered then this wouldve 
shown under the name of the account holder. They have also located four archive accounts 
for Mrs P, and they also werent showing the LPOA was registered on them. So Ive not 
been able to evidence that the LPOA was registered in 2015. 
So I asked Nationwide if they could send me the customer notes for Mr and Mrs P from 2015 
to when the LPOA was registered so I could see if there is any indication of what Mr and Mrs 
Ps son had been able to do on their account prior to the LPOA being registered in 2022. But 
unfortunately they do not hold customer notes going back to 1 January 2015. They have 
provided me with customer notes which for Mrs P goes back to 14 August 2018, and for Mr 
P which goes back to 24 December 2019. 
Ive reviewed these customer notes. Mrs Ps notes show that she had set up a bill payment 
or standing order in the branch on the following dates: 21 May 2020, 22 July 2020 and 12 
December 2020. She also transferred £7,000 in the branch to an internal account on 21 April 
2021, she withdrew £2,000 cash on 18 June 2021, and she made a cheque withdrawal in 
branch for £12,000 on 14 August 2018 (the earliest customer note). But as Nationwides 
records show with there being no LPOA being registered, then Mrs P would have needed to 
authenticate these transactions. 
Thats not to say that Mrs Ps son was not in the branch with her, and he asked the branch 
staff to carry out the transactions with her agreement, but the notes show the transactions 
were authenticated via a token - this could be something like a Personal Identification 
Number (PIN). So Im persuaded that Mrs Ps son would not have been able to make these 
transactions without Mrs P being present as he would not have a token such as a PIN to 
authenticate the transactions. The customer notes do not evidence that Mrs P rang 
Nationwide prior to the events being complained about, so it appears that Mrs P 
predominantly dealt with the branch. 
Ive reviewed the customer notes for Mr P. These also show branch transactions on 24 
December 2019 (the earliest note) and 25 June 2020. The notes show that effective from 
April 2021 for Mr and Mrs Ps son to be able to access their account information. This third 
party authorisation does not show he can transact on their accounts, and Ive not seen any 
information to suggest he was able to transact on his parents accounts by himself via a phone call to Nationwide or in the branch by himself before the LPOA was registered in 
October 2022. 
Ive looked at the Nationwide POA procedures and this shows what an attorney can and 
cant do. One of these things that an attorney cant do is to use the Nationwide app. Im 
persuaded part of the confusion here is that Mr and Mrs Ps son appears to have been told 
the terms and conditions have changed and that is why he is unable to use the app. But the 
reality is Nationwide dont allow attorneys to use the app anyway. He also appears to have 
been given (at best) unclear information about whether he could use the app to view/transact 
on his parents accounts once the LPOA was registered. Nationwide could have been clearer 
from the outset that an attorney would be unable to view/transact on the accounts via the 
app. 
It appears that Mr and Mrs Ps son downloaded the app onto his phone as he has told a call 
handler on 5 October 2022 that the app is on his phone, and he wanted to link three 
accounts for Mrs P on there. He has told a call handler on another call in November 2022 
that he believes the branch staff helped him download the app and they were aware of what 
he was doing. He says he has been able to move tens of thousands of pounds and now he 
is unable to use the app. But Im unable to evidence exactly what Mr and Mrs Ps son was 
told by branch staff. 
Nationwide dispute that he would have been told to download the app and use his parents 
log in details to transact on their accounts. But they have said that branch staff could have 
shown him how the app could be used to assist his parents. While I cant entirely rule it out, 
on the balance of probabilities I do think its unlikely that branch staff would have told Mr and 
Mrs Ps son to download the app and log in using his parents details when a LPOA wasnt 
registered, and an attorney couldnt use the app to view or transact on the accounts. Its 
unlikely they would encourage Mr and Mrs Ps son to use their log in details.
So I cant say that Nationwide acted unreasonably by preventing access to the app. This 
was because it had become apparent that Mr and Mrs Ps son was using his parents log in 
details to do so, and that the LPOA wasnt registered. But even if the LPOA had been 
registered, an attorney cant use the app in their role as an attorney. I must make it clear to 
Mr and Mrs P that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how they should 
operate their LPOA procedures, such as what access to what channels they should allow 
attorneys to use. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who 
have the power to instruct Nationwide to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
As Nationwide told Mr and Mrs Ps son that there was no LPOA registered, this meant he 
had to register the LPOA. Nationwides website sets out that it can take between 10-15 
working days to register an attorney. The LPOA registration form shows they will not be able 
to set up internet banking access unless the attorney can answer yes to all of the following 
questions. One of the questions asks the attorney to confirm he has an account with them in 
his own name that is eligible for internet bank access. So Mr and Mrs Ps son will have 
needed to set up an account in his own name to access internet banking for his parents 
under the LPOA.
Mr and Mrs Ps son has said that this took over 16 hours to complete as he needed to open 
a new account and he spent considerable time at a Nationwide branch, and he had to return 
to the branch. I can sympathise with him at how long this process took and I dont dispute 
that hes been inconvenienced and distressed directly by what happened here and the 
process that he had to follow. But as Ive already mentioned, I can only consider awards for compensation for Mr and Mrs 
P as part of this complaint. And Im not persuaded that Nationwide directly caused Mr and 
Mrs P distress or inconvenience as a result of the time it took their son to set up the LPOA. 
They did not spend the 16 hours doing this, and they were not required to visit the branch or 
re-visit the branch for him to open an account, so Im persuaded that their son had shielded 
them from the distress and inconvenience of what happened here. And I cant reasonably 
say Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation for what happened here. So it 
follows I dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman