DRN-2126390
The complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs R took out a PPI policy during a meeting in 1997 to protect her mortgage repayments. 
The policy gave her unemployment cover and she paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) Ive reached my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. So on what I think is most likely given the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R doesnt recall it being made clear to about the options around PPI. I cant know what 
was said to Mrs R, but based on what we know about the banks sales process at the time 
Mrs R would have been given a booklet about the cover and then needed to sign a separate 
PPI application form and direct debit mandate if she wanted to go ahead. 
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Rs comments but I also have to consider how long ago
the sale was and how that might impact what she recalls. Mrs R also only took out 
unemployment cover, not the much more common package of accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. This suggests there was discussion with the bank and she understood 
she had choices.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its most likely that it was made
clear to Mrs R that she had a choice about PPI, and she agreed to take it out.
Mrs R recalls she was advised to take out PPI and Santander agrees it recommended the 
PPI to Mrs R. This means it had a responsibility to check it was right for her. And I think it 
looks it was suitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs R says she had savings, or other means, worth less than three months salary but the 
PPI would have allowed her to use these for other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
protect them for her future needs. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful if Mrs R 
lost her job.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mrs R all the information she needed before she decided
to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced
and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy
didnt cover. But Mrs R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. This
means, overall, I dont think better information wouldve changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Mrs R has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman