DRN-2588809
The complaint
Mr R complains HDI Global Speciality SE have unfairly refused part of a claim he made on 
his home insurance policy following a fire.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr R was welding in his garage when a fire started, damaging some of his 
items. HDI accepted the claim and offered to settle some items, but it excluded many of the 
items Mr R had claimed for. Mr R had claimed for a number of car parts and accessories, 
which HDI said were not covered under his home insurance policy. It also said some items, 
such as an ultrasonic cleaner and a flaring kit were being used for commercial purposes, 
and as such were also excluded under his policy.
Mr R complained to HDI, he thought all of the items should be covered under his policy. He 
also said renovating cars was a hobby, and the items in his garage were solely for that use, 
rather than for commercial purposes. He also had concerns over the offers HDI had made 
for other items hed claimed for. 
Unhappy with HDIs response, Mr R brought the complaint to our service. HDI said Mr R 
hadnt complained about the settlement offers for the items it did agree to cover, so it said 
any concerns about this would have to be investigated separately. So they dont form part of 
this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think HDI had acted fairly in declining the cover the car parts. She 
didnt think HDI had shown that car parts and accessories were excluded under the policy. 
She also didnt think HDI had shown that the items it referenced were being used for 
commercial purposes. She thought HDI should settle the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
HDI didnt agree  it said it hadnt relied on an exclusion to decline the claim; it didnt think 
the car parts claimed for met the definition of a household item or personal possession, in 
the policy. It also said it hadnt relied on any commercial use exclusion to decline the claim, 
it only mentioned this to demonstrate that some of the items being claimed for werent 
household items. Our investigator maintained that the claim should be settled, so the 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that Mr R was given various reasons for declining his claim for his car parts and 
accessories. But HDI has now confirmed that it doesnt consider those items to be covered 
by the policy as they dont meet the definition of a household item.
Mr Rs policy provides cover for his contents which it defines as:
Household Items and personal possessions (including personal money, Valuable 
Items and home office equipment up to the limits shown on your schedule)
Household items isnt defined any further, so Ive thought about the common understanding 
of what that would mean. I take that to mean items within a home. The policy definition of 
home also includes a garage, so Im satisfied the policy also intends to cover household 
items found in a garage. I find its not unusual or unreasonable that car parts would be kept 
in a garage, and therefore its not unreasonable to consider these as household items. So I 
think the items Mr R has claimed for are covered under his policy.
HDI has said that just because these items arent excluded, doesnt mean they should come 
under the definition of household items. Its referenced several of Mr Rs car parts as  
examples of things it says shouldnt be classified as household items: roof rack, half an 
engine, fog lights, starter motor, panel beating kit, laser wheel aligning tool, cam belt kit.
Whilst I accept some of these items (such as a roof rack) are more commonly seen in 
households than others, HDIs policy term doesnt say they have to be commonly found 
items. The policy covers household items, which Im satisfied they are.
HDI has said it is impractical to list everything that is covered and excluded under the policy. 
But I note that under the personal possessions section of the policy, there are many 
exclusions for items that wouldnt be classed as personal possessions, including:
 
road vehicles or any electrically or mechanically powered vehicles. 
But even in this section, car parts and accessories arent excluded. So I havent seen any 
intention of HDI not to cover the items Mr R is claiming for.
So overall, based on everything Ive seen, I dont agree with HDIs interpretation of 
household items in that it cant extend to cover car parts. So I require it to settle the claim 
for those items in line with the remaining policy terms. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that HDI global Speciality SE needs to settle Mr Rs claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman