DRN-3944844
The complaint
Mr P complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Pay Day Bad Credit (Pay Day) gave him 
loans while he had defaulted on a credit, a loan and had significant amounts of outstanding 
debt. Mr P also said that he became reliant on these loans.
 
What happened
Mr P was advanced three loans by Pay Day and Ive summarised his borrowing in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £1,000.00 27/01/2021 18/05/2021 7 £269.96
2 £1,000.00 07/10/2021 03/11/2021 7 £257.50
3 £400.00 07/01/2022 20/05/2022 4 £174.50
Pay Day wrote to Mr P with a final response letter in June 2022. Pay Day didnt uphold the 
complaint because it said it was entitled to rely on the income and expenditure information 
Mr P provided which showed the loans were affordable. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Pay Day made a 
reasonable decision to lend these loans because it carried out a proportionate check which 
showed Pay Day that Mr P would be able to afford the repayments. 
Pay Day responded to say it accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr P didnt agree with the outcome, and Ive summarised his response below. 
Mr P accepted that Pay Day didnt lend to him irresponsibly for loan 1. 
Mr P does say Pay Day needed to be more cautious when he submitted his second 
loan application as it was for the same loan amount as loan 1. 
For the third loan, while it was smaller, further checks needed to have been carried 
out. 
By the time of loan 3, Mr P says his credit file showed that he had defaulted on a 
bank loan, a credit card and he was close to his credit limit on two other credit cards. 
In addition, before loan 3 Mr P says he had recently taken a loan from a high-cost 
credit provider of £4,000 and in total had taken £7,500 of new credit in the two 
months before this loan. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr P and explained why his comments hadnt changed her 
mind about the outcome of the complaint taking into account the checks Pay Day carried out 
as well as the gaps between the loans. Mr P still disagreed especially the outcome for loan 
3. Mr P said he should never have been offered this loan. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Pay Day had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Pay Days checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Pay Day should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. The adjudicator considered this 
didnt apply to Mr Ps complaint.  
Pay Day was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint. In response to the adjudicators 
assessment Mr P accepts that loan 1 was responsibly lent and so I wont look at this loan as 
part of this decision. Instead, this decision will focus on what happened when loans 2 and 3 
were granted. 
Loan 2This loan was granted almost five months after Mr P was able to successful repay loan 1. 
Given the amount of time that Mr P had spent indebted to Pay Day and the gap between 
repaying loan 1 and returning for loan 2, I do think Pay Day couldve treated Mr Ps 
application afresh. What I mean by this, is that while this was loan 2, it in effect became loan 
1 in a new chain of lending. As a result, it could have an impact on the types and levels of 
checks Pay Day would need to do before granting the loan. 
Before the loan was approved, Pay Day took details of Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
Pay Day recorded that Mr P worked full time and received a monthly salary of £3,132. 
Mr Ps income was subject to a third-party verification check. Pay Day says given his job as 
well as the time spent in that job it was confident Mr Ps income was correct. 
Pay Day also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr P declared to be £820 per 
month. These costs related to food, other credit commitments, loan repayments and utilities. 
In addition, Mr P declared his rent / mortgage as £0. This, amount is so low in some 
situations may not be relied upon. However, Mr P appears to have told Pay Day that he was 
provided accommodation as part of his work. So, in this case, it wasnt unreasonable for 
Pay Day to accept this figure. 
Pay Day says these costs were subject to comparison to figures used by a well-known debt 
advice charity and it considered Mr Ps job, location and homeowner status for example. 
After carrying out this check, Pay Day was satisfied that the amounts he had declared were 
reasonable and plausible. 
Pay Day says Mr Ps application was subjected to a full affordability and creditworthiness 
assessment and the results of this were positive indicating Mr P could afford the 
repayments.  Based on the income and expenditure information Mr P declared, Pay Day 
wouldve been comfortable that he could afford the maximum monthly payment he was due 
to make. 
Pay Day also says Mr Ps application scored very highly on our proprietary credit scorecard 
algorithm. Pay Day used the data it was given to create an internal credit score for Mr P  
this was sufficient for it to have granted the loan. Given, what Ive seen and been told, I dont 
think the information Pay Day was given indicated Mr P was in financial difficulties. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Pay Day to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr P had provided. So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Pay Day to have 
reviewed his bank statements before granting this loan.  
Given it was early on in this lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Pay Day to 
have relied on the information Mr P provided such as his income and expenditure 
information which showed he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he 
was committed to making. So, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about the loan.
Loan 3 
This loan was advanced around two months after Mr P had repaid his second loan earlier 
than he was contracted to. Pay Day carried out the same sort of checks before advancing 
this loan  as it had done so for loan 2. 
Mr P was asked for the same sort of information as he had been for the second loan. Mr P 
declared a slight decrease to his monthly income to £3,113. Mr P declared he had the same 
job and was at the same place as work as his previous loan. Mr P also declared similar 
monthly outgoings of around £750. Overall, following Pay Days further checks  such as comparing the expenditure figures 
using other statistics, it was satisfied that Mr P had sufficient disposable income to afford his 
monthly repayment of £174.50  this loan looked affordable. 
Ive thought about the level of checks and what Pay Day carried out but Ive also had to 
consider and keep in mind that this was the smallest loan to date, with the shortest term  
which also led to Mr Ps smallest monthly repayment to Pay Day. 
In addition, this was only the second loan in this chain, there was another gap  although 
this time it was smaller and in addition there didnt appear to have been any issues repaying 
his previous loan. Indeed, as Ive mentioned above loan 2 was repaid sooner than 
contracted to. 
Overall, there was nothing in the checks that pay Day carried out that suggested either 
Mr P was having financial difficulties or would find the loan repayments unsustainable. 
Pay Day was entitled to rely on the information it was provided, and in my view, taking 
account of the factors that Ive mentioned above I consider the checks it carried out to be 
proportionate. 
I accept what Mr P says, that he had recently taken out a significant amount of credit from 
other high-cost credit providers. But that information wasnt reflected in what he told Pay Day 
about either other loan repayments or his other credit commitments which he declared. And 
the information Pay Day did have suggested the contractual repayments were affordable. 
Therefore, having carefully considered the information provided by both Mr P and Pay Day, I 
dont think Pay Day made an unreasonable decision to provide this loan. As this is the case, 
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman