DRN-4212877
The complaint
T complain that Metro Bank PLC failed to refund monies they lost as part of a scam.
What happened
T are a Limited Company and are represented here by Mr B. Mr B explains that he was 
contacted by a person who told him his bank account had been compromised after his 
account with another merchant was hacked. 
Mr B was persuaded that the funds remaining in the business account with Metro were at 
risk. Mr B stated that he moved funds to an account with another financial firm who Ill call Z.
Three payments were made to Z by Mr B using the debit card linked to his Metro account. In 
total Mr B paid over £3,000 to an account set up in his name with Z. It was later found that 
those funds were subsequently transferred from the account.
Mr B soon realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted Metro about it. Metros 
initial handling of the issue was a little confused and they later made a £50 payment to T for 
the way theyd handled the issue.
Metro contacted Z about the funds, but they were no longer present in the account and 
couldnt be retrieved and no refunds were made to T.
Several months later, Mr B noticed an article in the press about scams and got back in touch 
with Metro and complained about their service and how his losses had been treated. Metro 
declined to refund T because hed made the payments himself and Metro didnt believe that 
they were unusual enough for them to intervene at the time.
T brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review 
and the complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. Evidence was sought from 
both parties and Mr B, on behalf of T, explained what had happened at the time. He believed 
Metro should refund him.
Metro provided details of their interactions with Mr B and data concerning the payments. 
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator explained that because the payments werent 
unusual compared to how the account normally operated, and because Mr B had authorised 
the payments himself, the complaint couldnt be upheld.
Mr B disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
I was sorry to hear of Ts loss and the impact this scam has had on them. The first matter I
need to address is the authorisation of the payments. Its common ground that Mr B sent the
payments from Ts account to the account in his name with Z, before they were
then transferred to another account. So, even though he didnt intend to pay a
fraudster, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations.
Metro had an obligation to follow Ts payment instructions, and T are presumed
liable for the loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Should Metro have prevented the payment from being made?
I accept that T have been the victim of a scam, but I can only ask Metro to
provide a refund if I consider it has done something wrong and has acted unreasonably.
There is a voluntary code that applies to APP scams like this one - The Lending Standards
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). But the CRM Code
doesnt apply to payments made by card, which is the payment method used in this case, so
I cant apply it.
Metro is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the
customers account. But Metro also has an obligation to be on the lookout for, and to
protect its customers from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes
monitoring accounts and identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of
character. In situations when potential fraud is identified, I would expect Metro to
intervene and attempt to prevent the loss.
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Metro should have
been on the lookout for suspicious activity. So, Ive first considered
whether the payment requests T made were unusual or uncharacteristic. Having
considered Ts account activity in the months before the scam I agree with the
investigator the scam payments werent suspicious. Ive no doubt the way the payments 
were made was calculated by the scammers to minimise the risk of Metro identifying them. 
What that means here is that I dont think Metro missed an opportunity to intervene prior to 
the loss of the funds from Ts account.
The details available from Z show that the funds were moved on from the account in Mr Bs 
name soon after they arrived making it difficult for either Metro or Z to prevent the loss to Mr 
B.
I dont think that Metro could reasonably have identified these transactions were part of a 
scam and as Mr B unfortunately authorised them himself, I cant recommend that Metro 
refund them to T. I acknowledge the losses that T suffered which were the result of an 
unscrupulous scammer, but Im unable to uphold this complaint.
I do recognise the confused response from Metro and the poor service which they gave to T. 
Although I didnt see any area where this poor service hampered the investigation of Ts 
losses. Overall, I think their payment was a reasonable way to recognise the service they 
provided to T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman