DRN-3733443
The complaint and what happened
Mr G and Mrs Y complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wont reimburse money they 
lost to an investment scam in March 20129. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Rather, Ill set out the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision: 
Mr G received a cold call offering an investment opportunity into bonds; an area Mr G 
already had experience of. Mr G received details of the bonds and asked about the 
companys FCA number; as he recalled the other business he dealt with had one. He 
was given a number which reassured him. As a result £100,000 was paid out to the 
bonds in March 2019, in £20,000 increments. One of these payments was returned. 
Soon after, Mr G realised hed been scammed, when he could no longer contact the 
scammer about his investment. He raised this with the bank who managed to recover 
just under £20,000 from the beneficiary bank. 
In 2022, Mr G and Mrs Y complained but the bank didnt uphold their complaint as it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it either. They didnt find the payments were unusual or 
that Mr G and Mrs Y had been honest when asked questions about the payments 
when making them in branch. Their representative has asked for a decision as they 
consider the payments unusual  typical account spending was under £1,000 in any 
one go, and it felt better probing questions could have been asked. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator:
There is no dispute the transactions were authorised. The starting position is 
therefore that Mr G and Mrs Y are liable. There is also no dispute this was a scam; 
the regulator posted a warning on its website at the end of March 2019 about this 
business. 
In accordance with regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to 
protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonable 
possible. If in breach of that, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Having reviewed Mr G and Mrs Ys account statements, Im not persuaded the 
payments ought to have looked out of character or suspicious to the bank. I accept 
the payments were large and were made in quick succession. But that isnt unusual 
for Mr G and Mrs Y. In March 2018 they made payments of £10,000 across two 
transactions in the space of a week. In May 2018, they made payments of £80,000 
across four transactions also in the space of a week, and in July 2018, they made 
payments of £25,000 across two transactions in three days. And these were 
generally preceded by a large lump sum being paid into the account just days prior. 
It would appear their representative reviewed an extremely limited account history 
when arguing the payments were unusual, despite it being aware that we will 
generally take into account 6-12 months of history. And given the transactions in 
dispute were of a similar size, velocity and were also preceded by a large lump sum 
into the account, I dont find the bank ought to have found them suspicious. 
I am aware the payments were made in branch. And the bank has provided evidence 
that some questions were asked about the payments. I accept Mr G and Mrs Y did 
explain the money was being paid into bonds. However, when asked whether they 
had been asked to make the payment by someone they hadnt met or were 
transferring funds for an investment opportunity they answered No which wasnt 
correct  they were being asked to transfer for funds for an investment opportunity by 
someone they had never met. Had they answered this question more accurately, the 
bank might have been on notice that something untoward was happening. 
Im also mindful that Mr G and Mrs Y had existing investment experience  having 
invested large sums into bonds before. And they told the bank the money that had 
been deposited into the account just days before was also from a bond. Given their 
clear investment experience, particularly in relation to bonds, and that was the 
intended purpose of the transfers, I dont find the bank ought to have done anything 
more. At most we might have expected the bank to ask Mr G and Mrs Y to do their 
own research; but this was something they were already aware of the need to do, 
having asked about FCA authorisation. 
Im satisfied the bank took appropriate steps to recover the funds. Whilst it is 
disappointing it was only able to recover just under £20,000, Im not persuaded it 
should have done anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman