DRN-2838521
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance (Audi).
  
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Audi in November 2018 for a new car 
costing £37,927. Everything else being equal, Mr S undertook to make an advance payment 
of £3,764.75 followed by 48 monthly payments of £529.03 and one final payment of 
£13,452.50 making a total payable of £42,610.69 at an APR of 4.9%.
Mr S says that shortly after he collected the car there were problems with it.
Despite being inspected on more than one occasion, the supplying dealership couldnt 
replicate the problems Mr S says he was experiencing with the car. However, it undertook a 
number of software updates, replaced at least one part, and said it was prepared to have the 
car independently inspected if Mr S wanted it to.
The car wasnt independently inspected because it was agreed between all the parties that 
Mr S could return the car (with the agreement in respect of it being marked as settled) and 
for him to be provided with a new car (subject to a new agreement). 
Mr S was happy with the switch of car but unhappy that Audi wasnt prepared to refund any 
of the payments he had made under the original agreement or pay him anything by way of 
compensation.  
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt 
be upheld. In summary he said that he wasnt persuaded the car wasnt fit for purpose from 
the outset. And given what the supplying dealership had done and offered to do to try and 
assist Mr S it wouldnt be fair to direct Audi to do anything further.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and provided further submissions in 
support of his complaint. The investigator considered these further submissions but wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind. Therefore, Mr S complaint was passed to me for review and 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.  
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Audi, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. 
Now I accept that the supplying dealership says it was unable to replicate any of the 
problems Mr S says he was experiencing with the car on the more than the one occasion it 
had it. But that doesnt mean there werent any.
Mr S has been consistent in his testimony to the supplying dealership, Audi and our service. 
And I can confirm that I find this testimony to be both plausible and persuasive. I say this 
because:
He has been able to provide at least some evidence in support of his submissions 
that he was experiencing problems with the car, such as photographs and screen 
shots.
The number of times the supplying dealership accepted the car back for inspection 
and diagnostics.
The supplying dealership felt it appropriate to liaise with other parties, including the 
manufacturer, about the issues Mr S says he was experiencing.
The supplying dealership undertook one or more software updates and replaced at 
least one part.
The supplying dealership confirmed in at least one message to Mr S  which Ive 
seen  that the window [was] losing its basic setting.
The supplying dealership confirmed in at least one video message to Mr S  which 
Ive seen  that it had identified some issues with the convenience system.
The supplying dealership allowed Mr S to switch out of his old car and into a new 
one.
Given what I say above, Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities Mr S was, for 
almost the entire time he was in possession of the car, experiencing problems with it and 
these problems were either present or developing at the point of supply making the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. Now I accept that the issues Mr S says he was experiencing might be 
viewed by some as being minor. But in this case Mr S hadnt acquired a used car but a new 
one costing nearly £40,000. And so, I think it was entirely reasonable for Mr S to expect it to 
be free from all defects, including minor ones.
Given that Ive found that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr S, what I 
now have to decide is what, if anything, Audi should have to do to fairly compensate Mr S.
Now Mr S was able to return the car (with the agreement in respect of it being marked as 
settled) and he was provided with a new car (subject to a new agreement), an arrangement 
that all the parties were happy with. But I agree with Mr S that this doesnt go far enough, 
and he should indeed be compensated further.
Mr S says he is looking for one or more of the monthly payments he made refunded to him 
together with an unquantified sum for distress and inconvenience.Taking everything into account, including that Mr S was provided with a courtesy car on most 
(if not all) of the occasions his car was with the supplying dealership, the amount of miles he 
travelled in the car (after an adjustment for mileage added by the supplying dealership) and 
the nature of the problems he was experiencing its my view that Audi should pay him an 
additional £500.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that although he would accept £500 
compensation, he felt £1,000 compensation was more appropriate.
VWFS responded to say that although it didnt agree with my provisional decision, in order to 
bring the matter to a close, it would pay Mr S the £500 I said it should.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S strength of feeling in this matter. But I remain of the view, for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision, that £500 represents an appropriate sum for VWFS to have 
to pay (by way of compensation) in this case and I now confirm my provisional findings as 
final.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance 
must pay Mr S £500 in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman