DRN-3798642
The complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc did not do more to identify that she was a 
vulnerable consumer.
What happened
Miss C sadly lost her father in 2014 and her mother a year later. Around the beginning of 
2016 she began receiving inheritance from their estates in a series of payments, totaling 
around £600,000.
Miss C says she purchased a large number of cars from 2016 onwards, and now realises 
this was a way for her to reconnect with her father, who also had a love of cars. She feels 
that the significant spending made on the account, for cars and other high value purchases, 
should have indicated to Santander that she was a vulnerable consumer at that time. She 
also highlighted that she made the bank aware that she had recently lost both her parents, 
which again should have alerted them to the fact she was a vulnerable consumer. 
She feels this should have prompted Santander to have a conversation with her which she 
thinks likely would have made her take a step back and think about what she was doing 
when overspending on the account. And as a result, she could have avoided meeting an 
individual at the car dealership who later took advantage of her financially. It should be noted 
that Miss Cs involvement with the individual has been dealt with in a separate case with our 
organisation. Miss C is aware that this decision will only be dealing with whether or not 
Santander should have realised she was a vulnerable consumer and taken further steps to 
help her.
Santander issued a final response letter in March 2022 in which they said that while there 
was large amounts of money moving through Miss Cs account, the actual behaviour on the 
account did not indicate that she was in a vulnerable situation and needed additional 
support. And that when considering the overall activity on the account, it indicated Miss C 
was managing the inheritance and the account. When the complaint was referred to our 
service, Santander offered Miss C £50 compensation on a goodwill basis in an attempt to 
settle the complaint, which she declined. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt it was reasonable that Santander had not 
taken further action when Miss C began spending more heavily on the account. They 
acknowledged that Miss C did make Santander aware she had lost both her parents during 
two phone calls in March 2016. But also said there was no indication in these calls that   
Miss C may be vulnerable due to the bereavement, so they didnt think Santander should 
have done anything further at that stage. They also said that prior to the inheritance being 
received, Miss C had made several car purchases, so the activity after the inheritance was 
received was not particularly unusual. And even if it had flagged, as Miss C only became 
aware she was in a bereavement fog after speaking to a professional many years later, it 
was unlikely a conversation with the bank would have made a difference at the time. 
Miss C disagreed with the outcome. As the investigator had only mentioned her spending 
from 2016 onwards, which was after she had lost both her parents, she did not feel it was a 
fair comparison to her previous spending. And she pointed out most of the spending in early 
2016 was connected to her setting up a car repair business. She also said that she still felt 
that had Santander had a conversation with her, she would have sat up and listened and 
likely would have stopped spending such large amounts of money. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has provided a lot of evidence and lengthy testimony as part of this complaint, and I 
want to thank her for her diligence. I want to assure Miss C that while I may not answer 
every point she has raised within this decision, I have considered everything she has 
provided to reach an outcome I feel is fair and in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal dispute resolution service.
Ive firstly considered if there was a point at which Santander should have realised Miss C 
was a vulnerable customer. Miss C has said she feels her spending after she received the 
inheritance money was an indicator of this. And I note she has tried to obtain statements 
prior to 2015 to highlight this, but unfortunately these are not available. I dont think it is 
unreasonable that Santander has not been able to provide the older statements and also, I 
dont think they are necessary in order for me to assess the case. 
I say this because Miss Cs spending habits were bound to change after receiving such a 
large sum of money in such a short period of time. It was inevitable that her monthly 
spending habits were going to change as a result. So, I dont think this alone would be an 
indication that she was struggling or was vulnerable. And looking at the general spending 
habits on Miss Cs account, there were large sums being spent, but there were also large 
payments being received. So, it wasnt a case of the funds suddenly being depleted in a 
short space of time, which could be a sign of things such as financial abuse, or compulsive 
spending. I appreciate Miss C has said it should have been clear that she did not need the 
number of cars she was purchasing. But I wouldnt expect a bank to be monitoring her 
account in that level of detail, and by that, I mean keeping track of the individual products 
she is purchasing. Instead I would expect it to monitor the general spending habits and 
flagging any individual payments it thinks are suspicious. 
I can see Santander did this on a number of occasions for higher value transactions, which 
is what I would expect it to do in the circumstances. Each time, Miss C confirmed the 
payments were genuine transactions for items she was purchasing herself, and she 
requested that the funds be released as soon as possible. As there was no indication based 
on Miss Cs answers that she was a victim of fraud, Santander had no reason to question 
her further and released the funds, as I would expect.
I do think that Santander had an opportunity to see Miss C was a vulnerable consumer in 
March 2016. There were two separate phone calls in March 2016 where Miss C, while 
calling about separate issues, mentioned that she had recently lost both of her parents. 
While it is correct that nothing else during these phone calls indicated that Miss C was 
vulnerable, I do think that a more detailed conversation could have been had with Miss C at 
the time to determine if she had any additional needs that Santander could assist with. It was 
clear that Miss C had recently been bereaved of both of her parents and had gone through a 
big life change, and this could have been acknowledged in some way. 
Having said that, I dont think acknowledging Miss Cs vulnerability at this time would have materially changed the position here. As mentioned previously, I dont think the way in which 
Miss C was managing the account indicating she was not managing her finances or that she 
needed additional support in that regard. And there was no further obligation on Santander 
to do any more than it was already doing in respect of monitoring her account. Its shown 
that it was flagging and checking certain payments, albeit not in the way Miss C thinks it 
should have  but in a way which I think, impartially, shows it was acting fairly and 
responsibly.
I appreciate Miss C has said she feels if Santander had a conversation with her when she 
told them of her bereavement, it would have lifted the bereavement fog she was 
experiencing and curbed her spending. Ive carefully considered what Miss C has said about 
this, but I cant know exactly what would have happened if that were the case. So I have to 
consider what I think is more likely than not in the circumstances, based on the evidence 
available. 
I think that if Santander had picked up on the life-change Miss C had just experienced, they 
would have needed to find out if she needed any assistance in managing her finances. But I 
think its unlikely the conversation would have gone to the level of detail required to lift     
Miss C out of her bereavement fog as shes described. So, while I appreciate I cant know for 
sure, on balance, I think its more likely this would not have altered Miss Cs spending habits 
at that time.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss C. But I do hope this gives some clarity on the 
situation. Ultimately, I think that while Santander could have seen Miss C was vulnerable in 
March 2016 due to her recent life-change, I dont think a conversation about this would have 
led to any material change in the way the account was managed. And I dont think 
Santander needed to take further action from that point onwards. So I think the £50 offered 
as a gesture of goodwill is fair in the circumstances.      
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint against Santander UK Plc. Santander UK Plc should now 
pay Miss C the £50 gesture of goodwill if it has not done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman