DRN-3226499
The complaint
Mr R complains about Santander UK Plcs excessive account charges.
What happened
Mr R says he has been paying excessive account charges on his Santander account for a 
number of years. He says they have on occasions amounted to between £50 and £150 a 
month and have caused financial difficulties. Mr R would like the charges refunded and says 
they are unreasonable.
Santander says it has correctly applied charges where Mr Rs direct debits have been 
unpaid or when his account entered an unarranged overdraft. It says the charges were 
applied in line with account terms and conditions. And says Mr R appeared not to use his 
account as his main account with transfers out of it which resulted in direct debits being 
unpaid.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges were correctly applied in line with account terms and conditions. And 
caused by directs debits being unpaid or Mr Rs account entering an unarranged overdraft. 
The investigator didnt think the charges amounted to the amount Mr R said or that there any 
evidence he told Santander about any financial difficulties.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and maintains the charges were unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Mr Rs account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that Santander will make 
various account charges where for example there is insufficient money in the account to pay 
a direct debit or where an account enters an unarranged overdraft. So, I dont think 
Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly by making the account charges when Mr Rs 
direct debits failed or when he entered an unarranged overdraft. I also think this was Mr Rs 
account and his responsibility to manage it. I have looked at Mr Rs account records and, 
whilst I appreciate that he says Santander charged him between £50 and £150 a month, I 
have not seen evidence of that on Santanders records.
I appreciate Mr R says the account charges were unreasonable. I make clear to Mr R that 
following a Supreme Court decision it was held that bank charges cant be challenged on the 
basis they were unfair due to their amount. And I have made clear that Im satisfied that 
Santander made the charges in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
It follows that I cant fairly order Santander refund Mr R the charges as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman