DRN-4156998
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his building insurance policy.
 
For ease of reading any reference to Aviva includes its agents and Ive mainly referred to Mr 
N in this decision as opposed to his representative.
 
What happened
Mr N made a claim under his building insurance policy after a subsidence problem at his 
property. Aviva considered matters and after a period of monitoring looked to settle the 
claim. But Mr N wasnt happy with the way the claim was settled and has continued to raise 
further issues as he doesnt feel the claim has been finalised.
Mr N complained to Aviva about a number of issues in relation to the claim initially that was 
dealt with by Aviva in its final response letter (FRL) of 15 July 2022. He wasnt happy about 
the fact it wouldnt pay to paint all of his external walls on his property (including those that 
werent damaged) after repair. And about the scaffolding that had been put up or the fact he 
was asked to pay his excess of £1,000 upfront. 
Aviva apologised for any difficulty Mr N had with the scaffolding, especially as he had 
banged his head on a scaffold pole and said it would consider any medical evidence he 
provided. But it explained it would only look to paint the external walls that were damaged 
and that the excess was due under the policy. But Mr N still wasnt happy, so he complained 
to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr N, but he didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
Aviva had dealt with these particular issues fairly although he acknowledged that Mr N had 
raised further complaint points since Avivas FRL. And he explained that Mr N would have to 
advance these issues with Aviva as a formal complaint in the first instance.  
As Mr N didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for the position Mr N has found himself and it is clear that 
he has further ongoing issues in relation to his claim and what he feels should and shouldnt 
be covered under the policy. However, as our investigator explained these additional issues 
cant be considered as part of this complaint. This is because Aviva has to be given the 
opportunity to consider Mr Ns complaint points and he needs to raise them formally with 
Aviva in the first instance. And if Mr N isnt happy about its response he can look to advance 
a new complaint with this Service. 
Turning to the issues that can be considered here, the issues raised with Aviva and 
responded to in its FRL of 15 July 2022, I agree it has acted fairly.  
I can understand why Mr N wants the whole of the exterior of his property painted but I dont 
think Aviva was obliged to do this. It has looked to repair the external cracking it thought was 
related to the claim and to paint the external walls that were affected. All I would expect 
Aviva to do here is to cover the damaged area up to a corner or natural break which it has 
looked to do. And some of the areas Mr N feels should be covered do not have damage that 
is related to the subsidence claim, so I dont think Aviva needs to take any further action. 
Mr N also raised issues with the scaffolding that Aviva put up to advance the claim. I agree it 
must have been frustrating to have had to go through his neighbouring property as the 
scaffolding was in the way, but there is always some inconvenience in advancing claims like 
this. And although this was far from ideal I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably. However, it 
must have been concerning for Mr N to have hurt himself on the scaffolding. But Aviva is 
happy to consider this subject to Mr N providing supportive medical evidence which feels 
fair. 
Finally, I can understand why Mr N didnt want to pay his excess upfront or at all as £1,000 is 
a lot of money. But ordinarily there is always an excess due for any insurance claim and this 
level of excess isnt unusual in subsidence claims and is outlined in the policy, so I cant say 
Aviva has acted unfairly here either. I note Mr N has raised a separate point in relation to 
additional scaffolding costs he might have to incur as well. But as Ive outlined above this is 
another complaint issue that Aviva will have to formally consider in the first instance. 
Given all of this, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr N, but it seems to me that the majority of his further issues and concerns dont fall 
under this complaint. So, I will simply leave Mr N to advance his further complaints 
separately with Aviva in the first instance and he can come back to this Service if, for any 
reason, he isnt happy with Avivas formal response. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman