DRN-3384159
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the investment advice provided by a business which has since become 
Santander UK Plc.
What happened
In 2001, Mr S invested £2,000 into a stocks and shares ISA following advice from 
Santander. He surrendered the investment in 2007 and received back £2,123.40. 
In 2021, Mr S complained to Santander via a representative. He thought the advice hed 
been provided in 2001 had been unsuitable for him. He said his attitude to risk wasnt fully 
assessed, the risk level of the investment wasnt appropriate for him, and his future needs 
and objectives hadnt been considered. 
Santander initially said the complaint had been brought out of time, so Mr S referred it to our 
service. When our investigator was allocated the case, Santander agreed to waive their 
objections in relation to time limits, which meant the investigator could consider the merits of 
the case. 
The investigator requested point of sale documents as part of their investigation, but wasnt 
provided with any. They issued their opinion, explaining they didnt think the case should be 
upheld. Mr S representative responded, enclosing the fact find and application from the date 
of sale, saying Santander had provided these to them at the outset of the complaint. 
With further relevant information available, the investigator issued a further opinion. They still 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld, but they were able to consider Mr S 
circumstances and objectives in providing their view. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator, so the case has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S representative has placed emphasis on the fact they feel a fixed rate bond wouldve 
been more suitable for Mr S. I appreciate this is large part of why they feel the advice was 
unsuitable for Mr S. But the availability of another product on the market which may (or may 
not) have been suitable for Mr S doesnt make the product he was advised to invest in 
inherently unsuitable. To determine whether Mr S was misadvised  the complaint thats 
been raised - I have to consider whether the ISA was suitable for Mr S, taking into account 
his investment objectives, attitude to risk, capacity for loss, and personal circumstances.
In order to do that, Ive taken account of everything Ive been provided with from both 
Santander and from Mr S via his representative.
Mr S has argued that his attitude to risk wasnt fully assessed, but I can see from the fact 
find that relevant questions were asked and Mr S information was recorded. So I dont think 
that was the case.  
Mr S has also stated that the risk level of the investment wasnt suitable for him. Ive 
considered this. The fact find shows Mr S had a low attitude to risk, wanted tax efficiency 
and was looking for higher returns than what was possible from normal deposit accounts. He 
was happy to invest for the medium term. I dont find the ISA was unsuitable for these 
agreed needs and objectives. Mr S capital was secure unless he withdrew the money before 
the 5 year fixed term, which he had no plans to do. And the ISA provided tax efficiency as 
well as the possibility of outperforming deposit accounts. 
As Ive only been provided with limited information from the point of sale, I havent seen a 
summary of advice letter or any product information such as the key features document. But 
I think Mr S would more likely than not have understood the risks of the investment. I say this 
because he wasnt a first time investor and had some experience with a variety of different 
investment products. The fact find also evidences there was discussion about the product, 
including that it was linked to 30 leading stocks selected from the largest 200 in the UK. On 
balance, I think its likely the adviser would have explained the key risks and features during 
the meeting and that these would also have been outlined in the documents provided to Mr 
S afterwards. Ive seen nothing to suggest the information was unclear or that Mr S didnt 
understand the investment. 
It's unfortunate that the FTSE 100 didnt perform as anticipated over the time Mr S held his 
investment, and that he received a return less than hed hoped for. Knowing now how the 
FTSE 100 performed, its possible Mr S wouldve been in a better position if hed been 
advised to invest differently. However we only know this with the benefit of hindsight, and it 
doesnt mean the advice he received in 2001 was unsuitable. 
As I said above, Ive noted the representatives point about a fixed rate bond. And while the 
documents Ive seen dont mention fixed rate bonds being specifically discussed at the point 
of sale, Im not persuaded Mr S wouldve more likely invested in that rather than this stocks 
and shares ISA. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, the fact find shows that cash ISAs were 
discussed and discounted because Mr S was looking for higher potential growth  so I think 
this would very likely have been the case if fixed rate bonds were discussed also. Secondly, 
because of Mr S existing investments in 2001. He already had a cash ISA, bonds, TESSA 
and shares. I think its reasonable to consider it likely he might have wanted a product with a 
capital guarantee which also gave him an element of exposure to the stock market. 
After investing the £2,000 into the ISA, Mr S was left with a further £2,000 savings which 
equated to about 10 months worth of his monthly outgoings. He also had £3,385 in readily 
accessible funds in the form of a cash ISA and said he didnt foresee any large expenditures 
in the future. So I dont think he was advised to invest in a manner that was unaffordable for him, further evidenced by the fact he left the money invested for longer than the five year 
term and made no withdrawals in that time. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that the advice provided to Mr S was 
unsuitable for him. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman