DRN-3299605
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited allowed his money to be taken 
fraudulently.
What happened
Mr M planned to fund a property purchase by selling the investment he held with Aviva. So in 
February 2020, Mr Ms IFA contacted Aviva on his behalf, instructing them to sell Mr Ms 
holdings worth £125,000. Aviva began to carry out these instructions. But they were unable 
to match the account details to Mr Ms name when they tried to validate the account number 
and sort code the IFA had provided.  
Because of this, Aviva called the IFA to verify the details theyd provided for Mr M. The IFA 
reconfirmed the same account number and sort code theyd initially provided, and when 
asked, said theyd received these details from Mr M face to face. To proceed with the 
transaction, the Aviva agent told the IFA: In order to accept the details over the phone, 
Aviva are reliant on you providing the correct bank details. And you accept all responsibility if 
theyre incorrect. The IFA confirmed yes. 
Aviva sold the holdings and transferred the funds to the account theyd been provided with. 
However, the account details were not Mr Ms. It seems likely that a fraudster had accessed 
his email account and, pretending to be Mr M, sent these details to the IFA. As a result, the 
money was unfortunately lost. 
Mr M was unhappy and complained to both Aviva and his IFA. He received half of the lost 
funds back from his IFA, who said theyd only compensate him the remaining half if he 
received a final decision from our service which said Aviva were not at fault for the loss. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at this case against Aviva 
but didnt think they had done anything wrong. Mr M has asked for a decision, so it has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, this decision is only about Aviva. I will not be making any findings about the IFA. 
Ive taken into account what Id expect of Aviva in these circumstances, where they werent 
able to match the account details to Mr Ms name. To this end, Ive noted that the Financial 
Conduct Authority sets out the following rules in its Senior Management Arrangements, 
Systems and Controls sourcebook (SYSC):
SYSC 6.1.1 R
A firm must establish, implement and maintain adequate policies and procedures 
sufficient to ensure compliance of the firm including its managers, employees and 
appointed representatives (or where applicable, tied agents) with its obligations under the 
regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to further 
financial crime.
SYSC 3.2.6 R
A firm must take reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems and controls
for compliance with applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system 
and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime.
For the avoidance of doubt, financial crime is defined as: any kind of criminal conduct 
relating to money or to financial services or markets, including any offence involving: (a) 
fraud or dishonesty.
In view of the above Im satisfied Aviva was required to have adequate procedures in place 
to meet its regulatory requirements to counter the risk that it might be used to further 
financial crime. And that it must take also reasonable care to maintain effective controls to 
counter that risk. 
Ive considered this in relation to Avivas actions in Mr Ms case. On being unable to validate 
the details, Aviva called the IFA directly. Ive listened to this call. Aviva asked clear, relevant 
questions to understand where the information had come from. They were told the details 
had been received from Mr M face to face, a method clearly indicating they could be relied 
on. The IFA showed no hesitation during this conversation and confidently agreed when 
Aviva said the IFA would be responsible if the information was incorrect. Overall, there was 
nothing in the phone call which would reasonably have flagged further concerns or indicated 
further questions were required.  
Mr M has suggested the agent could have called him directly to ask him to confirm the bank 
details. Ive carefully considered this, as I acknowledge that if Aviva had done this, it is likely 
the money would not have been lost. 
However in the circumstances, I think its reasonable that Aviva did not contact Mr M directly. 
I say this for two reasons. Firstly, because of the terms of Mr Ms investment portfolio 
agreement with Aviva. Ive seen a copy of these terms and conditions, which make it clear 
this is an adviser-led product. This means most of Avivas communication takes place 
directly with the IFA rather than the customer. Page 12 sets out that Aviva is entitled to act 
upon an advisers instructions without the need for further enquiries: 
You authorise Your Adviser to pass to Us Your instructions about Your Investment 
Portfolio. You authorise Us to accept and act upon Your instructions, via Your Adviser, 
on this basis as if they were made by You direct. We will not make any further enquiries. 
Aviva shall treat as fully authorised, accurate and binding on You any instructions which 
Your Adviser has passed to Us.
The terms also set out the following: 
Your Adviser is responsible for checking the accuracy of all information, online 
application and instructions they pass to Us. If an error is made by Your Adviser, Your 
Adviser is responsible for ensuring it is corrected. Your Adviser is responsible for any 
loss incurred to Your Investment Portfolio and/or Aviva as a result of the Advisers error.
So it was reasonable for Aviva to decide to contact the IFA in the first instance, rather than 
calling Mr M. 
Secondly, on contacting the IFA, Aviva received a confident and satisfactory answer to their query. As I explained above, there was nothing in that conversation which ought reasonably 
have made Aviva question the details further. So not only did Aviva act in line with the terms 
of the portfolio, Ive seen nothing to suggest it wouldve been reasonable to expect them to 
do anything further. 
In conclusion, I think in Mr Ms case Aviva had sufficient procedures in place and that they 
took reasonable care to counter the risk they might be used to further financial crime. I do 
not think they are responsible for the fact Mr Ms funds were lost. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.  
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman