DRN-4026513
The complaint
Mr D complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do enough to prevent 
his loss or assist him in the recovery of the funds that hed sent to its customers account for 
the purchase of goods.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In December 2021 Mr D sent just over £5,000 to an account held with Virgin Money through 
an online money transfer business, who Ill refer to as W. The money was for the purchase 
of car parts. Mr D says after hed sent the money, the seller ceased communication, and no 
goods were ever received. When Mr D realised he might have fallen victim to a scam he 
contacted W, who told him to contact Virgin Money directly, which he did.
No funds were returned to Mr D, so he complained. He asked Virgin Money to refund his full 
loss as he believed it had failed in its duty of care to him. He thinks Virgin Money have 
breached know your customer (KYC) regulations and have acted negligently by allowing a 
criminal to open and use a bank account to misappropriate funds. He says it can be argued 
that Virgin Money were complicit in the alleged fraud by providing an account which 
facilitated the accountholder being able to perpetuate an online scam, robbing innocent 
victims (like himself) of their hard-earned money. Mr D is also unhappy Virgin Money misled 
him by providing incorrect information about his entitlement to a full refund when he spoke to 
them.
Virgin Money issued its final response after Mr D had referred his complaint to our service. It 
said as there had been no bank error, it could not agree to a refund. But it did accept and 
apologise for providing Mr D with incorrect information. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so our Investigator looked into things. She thought there were 
limits as to how much of Mr Ds complaint we could consider. And for what we could, she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D disagreed. He asked for his complaint to be reconsidered by an Ombudsman.
Mr Ds complaint was passed to me. I issued a jurisdiction decision on 17 February 2023 
setting out which aspects of Mr Ds complaint we can  and cant  look into. This was 
followed by my provisional decision on 24 February 2023 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately what Mr D would like is for Virgin Money to refund the loss he has suffered. So the 
crux of the complaint and what I need to decide is whether I can fairly ask Virgin Money to 
do so. I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that as Mr D is not a customer 
of Virgin Money, it does not owe him a duty of care. However, that does not change the fact 
that as a regulated financial business it has an overarching duty and obligation to ensure it 
has systems and processes in place to prevent financial fraud. And of course, if it can be 
fairly concluded that a failure in its regulatory and lawful obligations resulted in a loss to 
Mr D, it would not be unreasonable to ask Virgin Money to refund the loss it could have 
prevented.
Mr D says as he understands it Virgin Money suspended/closed the recipient account. He 
believes it taking such action is confirmation of fraud. The inference being that if 
Virgin Money considered its customer to be genuine, and the matter a civil dispute between 
two parties, it would not have taken this step. He says, Virgin Money have proven beyond 
doubt by their recent actions regarding the recipient account that they allowed this fraud to 
take place.
Ive taken on board Mr Ds comments, but its worth noting we are an informal dispute 
resolution service. We do not consider complaints in the same way as a criminal court might, 
which is to prove beyond a reasonable doubt. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, we would make a decision on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words, what we think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
With that in mind, the suspension or closure of an account after a report of fraud isnt an 
admission of fault or liability for the losses suffered by victims whod been tricked into 
sending funds to the account. Nor does a scenario where an account is later found to have 
been utilised fraudulently and/or a decision is later taken to suspend/close the account 
automatically entitle a victim who has paid that account to a refund. So in circumstances 
such as these, as Ive explained above, it would only be fair and reasonable to direct the 
recipient bank/payment service provider (PSP) to refund any outstanding loss if it could 
reasonably be concluded that its acts, or omissions, could have prevented it or it did 
something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
Part of Mr Ds dissatisfaction is that he believes Virgin Money provided incorrect information 
to W about the name of the accountholder. He says it is a verifiable fact that when he 
entered the international banking account number (IBAN) into Ws systems at the time of 
instructing the payment, the accountholder name appeared on the screen. He claims, this is 
part of Ws security system to verify that the accountholder name is matched to the IBAN 
entered and the details provided on the payment instruction. He argues W could only have 
done so, if this information had been given to them by Virgin Money. So by providing 
incorrect information about the accountholder, he argues Virgin Money are culpable for his 
loss as he continued with his payment as he was reassured by confirmation of the 
accountholders name.
Virgin Money have said they are unsure how Mr D, as he has stated, verified the IBAN 
details as being held in the name that he was led to believe the account was in. It says at the 
time of the payment it was not offering Confirmation of Payee (CoP) service. It said that its 
quite possible that an internet search would have confirmed the account as a genuine 
Virgin Money account, but it would not have supplied the name of the accountholder.As I wasnt present at the time the payment was made, I cant know for sure what happened, 
as Ive mentioned above, I must decide, on balance, what I think is most likely. To start with 
Ive not seen any contemporaneous evidence to support what Mr D says he saw on the 
screen at the time of processing the payment, or that Virgin Money provided W with incorrect 
information. Our Investigator explained, generally the key information used by banks/PSPs 
to route a payment is a unique identifier. For UK payments this is typically the account 
number and sort code. And for an overseas payment (like here) it will be the IBAN of the 
payee. The checking of the name given on the payment instruction against the name of the 
recipient accountholder was commonly not part of the payment process. Also, Virgin Money 
have said that at the time of payment, the name checking system that has been 
implemented by UK banks in recent years (CoP) had not yet been implemented by it. And 
even if this information is incorrect and CoP was implemented, it is a name checking service 
for UK based payments, so it would not be applicable to Mr Ds payment. With that being 
said, Ive thought about the other possibilities, and aside from what Mr D says there are 
several other things which also could have happened, such as (but not limited to): the 
information was not shown; Mr D has been mistaken in what he saw; W was confirming the 
details entered by Mr D, not confirming that these were a match; W had mistakenly given 
Mr D incorrect information.
Taking everything together I think, on balance, the other scenarios are more probable than 
what Mr D suggests has happened here. So as I cant reasonably conclude that there has 
been a failure by Virgin Money, it follows that I cant fairly ask it to refund Mr Ds loss on this 
basis.
Ive also reviewed the statements for the account which received Mr Ds funds, and taking 
into consideration the general operation and use of the account, I dont think that Mr Ds 
payment crediting the account, nor the spending of those funds would have given 
Virgin Money cause for concern in a way that Id say it ought to have intervened before 
Mr Ds funds were spent. Virgin Money have also confirmed that, prior to receipt of 
notification of fraud from Mr D, it had not received any other fraud notifications about the 
recipient account. So I dont think Virgin Money missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Ds loss 
in this way either.
In her findings, our Investigator said that the majority of Mr Ds money had been spent on the 
same day it arrived, with it all being utilised within a few days of it crediting the recipient 
account, and before Virgin Money received notification about the fraud. Mr Ds response to 
her findings was that hed reported the matter to W and Virgin Money within hours. He 
argues it couldve prevented his loss (or part of it at least) had it taken timely action. He 
doesnt agree with Virgin Money directing him back to W, and its explanation for doing so. 
He thinks the process of a remitting business instigating an enquiry doesnt apply to an 
online money transfer business based abroad. He says, it is abundantly clear that 
Virgin Money is provably totally at fault. I take from this he intends that Virgin Money ought 
to have taken action at the time he notified it that one of its accounts had been used to 
receive fraudulently obtained funds.I appreciate why it mightve felt unsatisfactory to Mr D to be told by Virgin Money to contact 
W. But I cant say Virgin Money have acted unreasonably as the process followed by a UK 
bank/PSP for reporting payments made as a result of authorised push payment (APP) fraud 
is for the payers bank/PSP to send notification to the recipient bank/PSP. One of the 
reasons for this is to mitigate the risk of malicious claims from unknown parties, which to be 
clear isnt something Im suggesting has happened here. And, even if I were to agree that 
Virgin Money ought to have taken action at the time Mr D contacted it, I dont think it 
wouldve made a difference in these circumstances. I say this because, the account which 
received Mr Ds money had been open and operating normally for a significant number of 
years, without any concern or notifications of fraud. Based on this I dont think information 
received from an unverified source alone would have given Virgin Money a basis upon which 
it should have taken further action or blocked its customers use of their account. I dont think 
an expectation of notification from the remitting business in these specific circumstances is 
unreasonable. And from what Ive seen, W had not been in touch with Virgin Money before 
Mr Ds funds had been spent. So I dont think there were any failings by Virgin Money 
relating to how it responded to notification of fraud that impacted the recovery of Mr Ds 
money.
I have also considered that Virgin Money is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the code). This being a voluntary code that was 
introduced to tackle the growing number of people falling victim to APP fraud. Signatories of 
the code commit to: protect customers with procedures to detect, prevent and respond to 
APP fraud; prevent accounts being used to launder the proceeds of APP fraud; and 
reimburse customers who fall victim through no fault of their own. But Mr Ds payment does 
not meet one of the codes criteria, that being the transfer must be between UK-domiciled, 
GBP accounts. The payment Mr D sent to Virgin Moneys customers account was an 
international payment. So I cant fairly say by not considering a refund under the code 
Virgin Money have acted unreasonably.
I note Mr Ds dissatisfaction with Virgin Money misinforming him that he would receive a 
refund of the sum hed transferred to its customers account. I can see Virgin Money have 
accepted its failure, apologised for giving incorrect information and informed Mr D of the 
steps it has taken internally. I think this is a fair way to resolve this matter. Im afraid 
mistakenly providing incorrect information isnt a basis upon which I could fairly direct 
Virgin Money to refund Mr Ds outstanding loss.
And finally, having lost a significant sum of money, its natural for Mr D to have questions 
about the account into which those monies were paid. But Virgin Money is required to 
comply with privacy laws. If it does not have a lawful basis for holding and processing 
personal data (which includes disclosing that information to a third party) it would be in 
breach of those. So, I cant say that Virgin Money has acted unreasonably when it informed 
Mr D that it couldnt share with him directly information it holds about its own customer. 
Virgin Money did not respond to my provisional decision.  
Mr D responded with a couple of screenshots which he believes evidences W matching the 
payees name to the IBAN. He still maintains if the accountholder name and IBAN did not 
match a message would have appeared advising of this  which didnt happen. He still feels 
Virgin Money must have verified and confirmed to W that the name and IBAN were a match. 
He continues to argue that Virgin Money suspending the recipient account is proof of its 
accountability, and it should refund his loss because it allowed the fraud to take place.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the screenshots Mr D has submitted in response to my provisional decision. 
But Im not persuaded that these evidence that W are confirming that the name displayed is 
linked to the IBAN. One screenshot appears to be a payee list associated with his account 
with W and the other provides details about the payee he sent the disputed payment to. In 
any event, the question here isnt just about Ws systems or what they show or didnt show. 
It is also about whether it can be fairly concluded that there has been a failure by 
Virgin Money that has resulted in a loss to Mr D. And the screenshots provided do not 
evidence, or suggest that on balance, that there has been a failure by Virgin Money. 
As Virgin Money did not respond to my provisional decision and Mr D did not provide any 
additional information that changes my mind, I see no reason to depart from the outcome 
explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman