DRN-3540604
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain on behalf of company S that Santander UK Plc mis-handled data.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs P and Mr P applied for a business account for S with Santander. 
Sometime later Santander issued a letter, explaining the business account application had 
been declined. This address was incorrect and was sent to a different house number, on the 
same road. Mrs P and Mr Ps neighbour opened the letter and returned it to Mrs P and Mr P, 
suggesting they needed to change the address details held by Santander.
Mrs P and Mr P raised this issue with Santander who explained that the address on 
Companies Hose was incorrect, hence the error. Mrs P and Mr P complained to Santander 
about the data breach and poor service. Santander reviewed the issue, and in its final 
response letter issued in March 2021 it said there had been no error on its part. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs P and Mr P referred the complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint, and further information came to light. Santander 
confirmed that it had recorded S correspondence address incorrectly. It also said it did have 
the correct address for S on its records as Mrs P was an existing customer and it shouldve 
noted the discrepancy with the house number.
Santander acknowledged its error, ultimately offering £200 compensation  via this service, 
by way of an apology in recognition of the issues. The investigator thought the offer was fair. 
But Mrs P and Mr P did not think this offer was adequate and felt Santander needed to do 
more. So, the complaint has now been passed to me - an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of issues Mrs P and Mr P have experienced with their business account 
application. I do understand that having post sent the wrong address will have been 
frustrating. I understand Mrs P and Mr P would like an explanation about how this mistake 
was made. Santander has explained that during a phone call with Mr P, it asked if the Ss 
business address was the same as the address listed on Companies House. Mr P confirmed 
it was, and the call handler noted the house number as 117 rather then 177. This seems to 
be the source of the issues Mrs P and Mr P later experienced. Im satisfied Santander has 
provided a plausible and reasonable explanation about what happened, and the mistake was 
due to human error. 
Mrs P has provided the letter that was sent to 117, and it explains the business account 
application for business S has been declined. Mrs P and Mr P say the fact another party has 
seen this letter breaches data protection. 
I should make it clear here that our service doesnt regulate Santander in respect of its 
conduct or for data protection matters. Thats down to the Financial Conduct Authority and 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Its also not our role to decide if Santander has 
breached any regulatory requirements or broken data protection regulations. Thats a matter 
for the relevant regulators outlined above.
What I can look at is whether Santanders mistake caused S any financial loss, reputational 
damage, or inconvenience. Mrs P and Mr P havent provided any information which 
suggests there was any reputational harm caused to S or that it suffered a financial loss. But 
I do however acknowledge that the error will have caused S inconvenience and the fact a 
business account application has been declined is not information Mrs P and Mr P wouldve 
wanted to share. Santander has recognised this and offered £200 in recognition of the 
impact this error has had. Mrs P and Mr P dont think this award goes far enough. 
Deciding an award for compensation is seldom straight forward. What is seen as reasonable 
by one party may not be considered so by another. Mrs P and Mr P  as officers of S, did 
experience some inconvenience. But I think the amount offered feels fair in all the 
circumstances here. I must highlight it isnt the role of this service to make awards to 
penalise Santander for its mistake. Any award is considered based upon the impact its 
mistake had upon the complainant  in the case, S. And Im satisfied Santanders offer does 
that here. So, Im not going to ask Santander to pay S anything more.  
I note Mrs P has mentioned concerns about the service she received in branch from 
Santander. This complaint issue was not raised in the initial complaint to Santander and was 
not part of the original referral to our service. Mrs P can raise this as a new complaint with 
Santander if she wishes to pursue it further.  
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay S £200 for the inconvenience caused by its administrative 
error. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to put things right by doing what Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman