DRN-3703520
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C complains about delays by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in 
receiving the benefits from this policy and further administrative delays. This follows 
confusion over an underpayment to settle a mortgage. 
What happened
In March 2000, RBS sold the late Mrs C a decreasing life and critical illness cover policy, 
alongside a mortgage. The policy was provided and administered by a third-party. 
The policy was a condition of the borrowing and was sold to mirror the liability. It had an 
initial sum assured of approximately £23,500 for an initial monthly premium of £23.15 and a 
term of 25 years. 
A claim was made under the policy in March 2020, following Mrs C passing away. The plan 
provider wrote to RBS in March 2020 to confirm the proceeds had been paid to them 
(approximately £11,500) directly, towards paying off the remaining mortgage. 
The provider then confirmed in August 2020 that a further approximate £2,225 (including 
interest for the delay in payment) had been paid to RBS, following an error in calculating the 
full benefit amount. The provider says they also paid the estate £100 compensation for this. 
The estate of Mrs C complained to RBS. They said that RBS had incorrectly said that the 
additional payment hadnt been received. RBS responded and acknowledged misinformation 
had been given. They said it was a banking error and they should have explained the 
payment had been received but applied to different parts of the mortgage. They credited the 
mortgage with £200 as compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
The estate of Mrs C subsequently noticed the additional proceeds from the provider were no 
longer showing as credited against the mortgage debt. RBS responded to say that their 
previous response had been incorrect. They said the amount had been sent from the 
provider with incorrect details including account number and missing the corresponding 
surname for the account. They said the account had been located and so the funds had 
been showing as applied to them, but as the details didnt match the payment was returned 
in September 2020. 
The complaint was brought to our service for an independent review. An investigator looked 
into it, she noted that the payment was subsequently received correctly and credited to the 
mortgage on 29 September 2020 and that the closure was backdated to the original August 
date. She thought this, along with the £200 compensation, was a reasonable settlement. 
The estate of Mrs C remained unhappy. They said, amongst several points in response, they 
didnt believe the payment had been sent incorrectly from the third-party and that RBS hadnt 
done enough to put things right. The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to sympathise with the representatives of the estate. In what was already 
a very difficult time for them, this process took longer than it should have, through no fault of 
theirs. They have also been waiting too long for an answer from our service about this and I 
am sorry for that. 
However, I want to make clear that this complaint is brought by the estate of Mrs Cs 
executors, on the late Mrs Cs behalf. We cant compensate executors for any impact 
incurred to them personally, when representing an estate. What we can do, is make sure 
that errors have been put right and the estate has suffered no financial loss from delays. 
From the evidence provided to me, I think this has now been done. 
I am satisfied that when the life policy benefit was sent to RBS in August 2020, it didnt have 
the correct details. RBS have shown us that the incorrect account number was presented. 
Whilst RBS have said that they managed to attribute this to the correct account, it was still 
returned to the provider due to the incorrect details in September. 
I cant be sure from the information provided to me why this happened. RBS have said that it 
was returned at the request of the life provider, and they have suggested it was due to a 
reconciliation. However, the mortgage was still backdated as if payment had been received 
on the initial date in August 2020, with no further interest or charges from that point. I think 
that is fair. They also paid £200 to the mortgage for their part in the inconvenience this 
caused and not being able to give a full explanation at the time. As explained above, this is 
more than I would be able to award. 
The estate of Mrs C has suggested that the payment shouldve been backdated as if it had 
been received and credited in January 2020. However, from the evidence provided to me, I 
havent seen anything to conclude that this amount (approximately £2,225) wasnt received 
sooner as a result of an RBS error. 
The estate of Mrs C have also complained that they werent notified sooner by RBS that the 
mortgage debt had been settled. I can see this was a difficult and worrying time, with 
payment demands being sent with repercussions of failure to pay included. The full amount 
was received by RBS on 29 September 2020 and the mortgage discharge letter and title 
deeds werent sent until 14 November 2020. I wouldve expected this to have been done 
sooner and from experience (whilst it is dependent on other factors) it is usually completed 
within 30 days. Whilst I can see it took slightly longer than this, there was liaison with 
solicitors required and delays due to staffing issues because of Covid-19. I am glad to see 
RBS have put things right by ensuring there were no charges during this time. I think this is 
fair and I wont be asking them to do more here. 
In summary, I think RBS have done enough to put right any mistakes and delays caused. 
They have backdated the mortgage as if it was credited with the outstanding payment in 
August 2020 and I think this is fair.  My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint and I 
dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything further to put things right, than 
they already have.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman