DRN-2633271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC gave them mis-information about when their first 
payment would be when they were taking out a new mortgage.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst it is unfortunate that Lloyds has been unable to locate the recording of the 
conversation on 15 May 2019 Im satisfied there is nothing untoward in that.
Mr and Mrs S have said about that recording:
If this is still 'missing' then this has been manually accessed and tampered with.
I find it suspicious that they would lose the one thing that proves my argument
They have either deleted it on hearing it or are liying [sic] about not being able to find 
it.
These are very serious allegations that have been made by Mr and Mrs S and ones for 
which theyve provided no supporting evidence. Without meaning to downplay matters as I 
understand how important this is to Mr and Mrs S, if this complaint was upheld the redress to 
put things right would only be around £100 or so. It seems unlikely Lloyds would go to such 
lengths and leave itself open to serious regulatory action for, what is to it, such a small sum.
I agree the recording should be available, but were not the regulator so Ive no power to fine 
or punish a business. All I can do is decide an individual case on the evidence that is 
available, and the evidence that is available here doesnt lead me to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have said the illustration they received on 15 May 2019 didnt say the first 
payment would be made in the month following completion. They say Lloyds then issued a 
different version of that when they complained. But thats not so.
There are two separate documents here; the mortgage illustration which was dated 15 May 
and then the formal mortgage offer which was dated 17 May. Thats why the two documents 
look slightly different.
I agree with Mr and Mrs S that the mortgage illustration of 15 May doesnt include dates in 
section 5, but it wouldnt as that was just an illustration which is a standard document 
normally produced before a mortgage application is submitted (here it was slightly different 
as Mr and Mrs S had already applied, but the first property theyd intended to buy had fallen 
through). What it did have though was three pages at the end entitled Supplementary 
Information, and in that Lloyds said:
Your first monthly payment
Your first monthly payment includes interest from the day the loan money is sent to your 
conveyancer, plus your first monthly mortgage payment. The 'Amount of each instalment' 
section of the mortgage illustration sets out your first payment assuming your mortgage 
starts on the 1st of the following month. Your first monthly payment will be different as it 
will depend on when your loan starts.
Your first payment is collected the month after your mortgage starts. For example, if your 
loan is released in June, your first payment will be collected in July.
Your first payment is collected on the day you choose unless we haven't been able to 
give you enough notice to collect it. We write to you when your mortgage starts to tell you 
when we will collect your first and subsequent payments.
That information was repeated in the formal mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs S accepted, 
which was dated 17 May 2019, with the following addition at the end:
For more information, including an example of how to calculate your first payment, 
please refer to the 'Information about your mortgage' booklet which is issued with 
mortgage offers.
Mr and Mrs S have said why would I go home and read something after I thought [the 
mortgage adviser] had already explained it correctly. The mortgage offer set out the formal 
contract that Mr and Mrs S were entering into. The mortgage offer was issued on 17 May, 
and Mr and Mrs S didnt complete until 18 July so they had two months to review the 
contract they were entering into to ensure they understood it. I cant hold Lloyds liable if 
Mr and Mrs S chose to enter into a legally binding contract without reviewing it thoroughly 
themselves first.
It may be Mr and Mrs S were given incorrect information on 15 May, I have no way of 
knowing that for sure as the recording isnt available. Mr and Mrs S say the adviser told them 
one thing, the adviser has said she wouldnt have said that. When considering any complaint 
like this, as Mr and Mrs S are the ones bringing the complaint against Lloyds, to uphold the 
complaint Mr and Mrs S version needs to be more likely than Lloyds version; not just as 
likely. Having considered everything I cant say Mr and Mrs S version is anything more than 
just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold their complaint.
In any event, even if I were satisfied Mr and Mrs S were given incorrect information on 
15 May, I have to consider what happened after that as (if proven) this would be a mistaken 
statement of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When were looking at 
complaints of this type, we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the 
position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in 
the position they would be in if it had been correct. 
Mr and Mrs S could never have been in the position where their mortgage could complete in 
mid-July and they didnt need to make any payment until 1 September. As the mortgage 
offer  which was the legal contract between the parties  contained the correct information 
and was issued after the disputed 15 May conversation, any potential mistake was corrected 
by that. That means Mr and Mrs S already had the appropriate remedy in that they were in 
possession of the correct information two months before the transaction completed. Having considered everything, I cant uphold this complaint however much Mr and Mrs S 
may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman