DRN-2569854
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs D say Standard Life Assurance Limited mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 to protect Mr and Mrs Ds
mortgage repayments. They recall they returned a PPI application by post after a phone call 
to discuss their mortgage. It was in Mr Ds sole name and gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Standard Life disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Standard Life had to give Mr and Mrs D information that was clear, complete and not mis-
leading so they could make an informed decision about buying PPI. Im not persuaded its 
shown it did this and I think this mattered to Mr and Mrs D. Ill explain why.
Mr D had a number of medical conditions at the time of the sale that had been diagnosed in 
late 1990s. Hed undergone surgery and been off work for a number of weeks. He was under 
ongoing medical supervision for his conditions. Based on the policy terms he wouldnt have 
been covered if he needed to make a claim for anything related. This is because this policy 
excluded any physical or mental condition that the policyholder was aware of or reasonably 
knew about at the start date. Given the nature of his conditions its likely Mr D wouldve 
thought they could be a reason hed need to claim in the future. So Mr D might not have 
been able to claim on the policy when he needed it. And I cant see that the relevant 
exclusions and limitations were effectively highlighted to Mr and Mrs D as part of the sales 
process.
Standard Life argues the covering letter with the PPI application would have referred to 
cover being subject to the exclusions of the policy and there would have been a leaflet 
setting out the exclusions. Also they were set out in full in the policy document that was sent 
later. Based on this evidence, I dont agree that Standard Life met its obligation to provide 
enough clear information at the time of the sale on the pre-existing medical conditions 
exclusion. They were included amongst a lot of other detailed information and in no way 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs D.
Standard Life also argues that Mr D could have claimed for any condition diagnosed after 
the date of the sale but given what based on his medical history I dont think he wouldve 
wanted cover that excluded pre-existing conditions. 
It follows I think Mr and Mrs D have lost out as a result of Standard Lifes failings in this
case because I dont think they would have taken out the policy if theyd been properly
informed.
Putting things right
Standard Life should put Mr and Mrs D in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Standard 
Life should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Standard Life can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Standard Life to take off tax from this interest. Standard Life must 
give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and Standard Life Assurance Limited must put things right as 
set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman