DRN-3715515
The complaint
Mr C says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) stopped an international money 
transfer. When he made the transfer again a few days later the exchange rate had dropped, 
and so he ended up paying more.  
What happened
On 6 April 2022 Mr C made an international transfer totalling approximately £150,000 
including fees. Mr C says he made the transfer in branch and completed the necessary ID 
checks which included providing details of the recipient of the funds. 
Mr C logged on to his online banking a few days later and saw that his account was closed. 
And so he contacted NatWest who told him it had some concerns about the transaction so 
they stopped it. 
Mr C says NatWest would authorise the transaction but the cost had increased by £7,000 
due to the exchange rate dropping. Mr C wasnt happy about this since he felt it was the 
banks fault for delaying the transaction. While Mr C was attempting to resolve the matter 
with the bank the call dropped. 
Mr C contacted the bank the following day but was unhappy with the advice given to him by 
the agent who told him to go into branch to complete the transfer. Mr C says the agent told 
him the nearest bank to Mr C that was open was 100 miles away. 
Mr C needed the money to be transferred on time since he was completing a contract. And 
so he went into a branch and authorised the transaction. The total cost of the transfer 
including fees was approximately £157,000. Since the transaction was stopped and he was 
unable to transfer the funds until 11 April 2022 it cost him a further £3,000.
Mr C complained to NatWest. He wants the bank to reimburse him the additional cost of the 
transaction together with a payment for his loss of earnings in dealing with the matter. 
NatWest said it is trying to protect customers from potential fraud and so restrict usage on an 
account if it believes the account is at risk. It said when the restriction was placed on Mr Cs 
account it tried to contact him but Mr C had concerns over whether the call was genuine. 
And so the call handler advised Mr C to call the bank to speak to the fraud team. But Mr C 
didnt call the bank until two days later. By which time there was a difference in the exchange 
rate. NatWest said since the exchange rate changes daily it isnt able to guarantee a rate, 
and the rate given to Mr C in branch was only indicative. NatWest said it was satisfied it 
followed the correct process. It did acknowledge the problems Mr C had when trying to call 
the bank to resolve the issue with the transaction and so paid Mr C £125 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the response from NatWest. And he wasnt happy with the 
compensation and felt it should reflect the hours Mr C lost trying to resolve the issue. So he 
referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He said he thought NatWest had already taken 
fair and reasonable steps to put things right for Mr C. Mr C remained dissatisfied so the 
complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont think it affects 
the outcome. But I want to assure Mr C I have considered the points he has raised together 
with the information I have been provided. 
I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr C experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about the issues raised in this complaint. My role is to assess whether I think NatWest 
made a mistake, or treated Mr C unfairly, in the way it dealt with his international payment. 
I think its perfectly understandable that when someone is transferring money overseas they 
want to minimise the cost of that by achieving the best possible exchange rate and reducing 
or avoiding any fees involved. So I can empathise with the situation Mr C finds himself in. 
But what I have to decide is whether the higher costs he ended up paying was because of 
anything NatWest have done wrong. And from what Ive seen I dont think it was. 
The initial international transfer 
Banks have an obligation to try and keep their customers account safe and prevent fraud 
and scams. NatWest explained the initial transaction was flagged as being potentially 
fraudulent. Page 8 of the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account gives a list of reasons 
NatWest may not be able to make a payment from the account, and it includes reasonably 
believing a transaction may be fraudulent. NatWest was taking care to protect Mr C from 
potential fraud and scams. So I can see why this caused distress and inconvenience to Mr C 
 but it doesnt necessarily mean the bank has acted incorrectly. 
I am satisfied NatWest has shown the block it put on the initial transaction was based on a 
genuine and legitimate reason for it to take the action it did. So although Mr C will have been 
frustrated by what happened here, Im satisfied it treated him fairly and Im not persuaded it 
made any errors by refusing the transaction. NatWest has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an 
account is opened. It is common industry practice for banks to monitor accounts for certain 
activity. And transactions will often be restricted to prevent potential losses. 
When the transaction was flagged NatWest attempted to contact Mr C to confirm the 
payment. Unfortunately Mr C wasnt sure the call was genuine so the agent told Mr C to call 
the number on the back of his card and ask to be put through to the fraud team. And 
because he didnt do this the transaction wasnt authorised. But had he called the bank that 
day the transaction would have been approved and I think its unlikely there would have 
been such a significant increase on the cost of the transaction. I think that is a fair and 
reasonable process in order to help safeguard against fraudulent activity. 
I can understand Mr C was inconvenienced when he tried to deal with the matter including a 
delay in the processing of the transaction, long telephone wait times, and ultimately having 
to go into the branch. But if Mr C had been the victim of fraud and NatWest hadnt taken any 
action, the consequences could have been far worse for Mr C. I have carefully considered NatWests reasons for taking the steps it did. I understand its 
concern and find its basis for prohibiting the transaction reasonable and in line with the terms 
of the account. 
The exchange rate 
I note Mr C has made other international transfers previously using the same account. And 
so I think he would have had a level of understanding as to how the exchange rate applies 
when making a transfer, even though he would not have been aware of the actual amounts. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account say, our exchange rates are based on our 
prevailing rate at the date and time that a foreign currency payment is processedthese are 
indicative rates only. So I think the bank explains the rates arent set in stone and this is 
because the exchange rate fluctuates regularly. 
When Mr C went into the branch to make the second transfer he was told the cost of doing 
so. At this point he could either proceed with the transaction on the basis of the information 
provided or choose not to proceed. Mr C chose to proceed with the transaction. 
This all persuades me that NatWest provided enough information regarding international 
payments at the point of transaction. 
Contacting the bank 
I can understand Mr C was inconvenienced on the occasions he tried to contact NatWest, 
and the length of time it took when he went into a branch. And NatWest have apologised for 
this. It also credited Mr Cs account with £125 for the inconvenience. And I think this is 
reasonable in all circumstances of the complaint, and in line with what we would likely to 
have recommended. 
I know Mr C is hoping to be refunded the additional costs of the transaction but since I dont 
think NatWest made an error here I wont be asking it to pay this. NatWest paid Mr C £125 to 
reflect the issues he had trying to contact the bank, and the time he had to take from work. 
And so while I can see Mr C isnt satisfied with the level of compensation I think it is the right 
level to reflect the inconvenience to Mr C. 
I know what Ive set out wont be the answer Mr C was hoping for, and I know how strongly 
he feels about the matter. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont find that NatWest 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So it follows that I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman