DRN-3520520
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) closed his account and registered a fraud 
marker against him.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr J says he saw an advertisement on a social media site about people 
making money through trading in cryptocurrency. Mr J says he contacted the person who 
was running the advert and was told they could show him how to make money through 
trading. Mr J says the trader looked legitimate, saying they shared direct messages from 
people theyd helped who had made money through trading. Mr J says the trader offered to 
help him trade for free as he wanted to build his business and get more people on board.
Mr J says the trader asked for his bank details, which he provided. 
In June 2021, Mr J was contacted by Metro who told him they were closing his account and 
giving him seven days notice. Mr J says that as part of closing his account Metro applied a 
CIFAS marker, which has meant he hasnt been able to open a new account  although he 
does have a separate account held with another bank. 
Metro say they took the decision to close Mr Js account after receiving a fraud report from 
another bank. The fraud report said that a customer of the other bank had been the victim of 
fraud and as part of that fraud £5,000 had been taken from their account and paid into Mr Js 
account.
In talking to Metro about his account closure, Mr J says he became aware of the £5,000 paid 
into his account as well as two payments made out of his account. Mr J says these 
payments were made by the trader without his knowledge. Mr J raised a complaint with 
Metro, saying it wasnt fair they were closing his account and asking them to remove the 
marker.
Below is a list of transactions made on Mr Js account, as well as information about devices 
registered which were used to make those payments. The payments in bold are payments 
Mr J says he didnt make. All of the payments were made through the Metro mobile banking 
app and using Mr Js security details/login.
Date Time Description Amount
  9.5.2021 Phone A registered with Metro (Mr Js phone)
14.5.2021 Payment to C  new payee set up and payment 
made from Phone A£1
25.5.2021 Phone B registered with Metro 
25.5.2021 Payment to C  made from Phone B £1
28.5.2021 Payment to C  made from Phone B £20
29.5.2021 16:34 Credit to Mr Js account (subject of fraud 
report)£5,000 cr
16:40 Payment to C  made from Phone B £2,000
16:51 Payment to C  made from Phone B £2,980
Metro considered Mr Js complaint but told him that they wouldnt be changing their decision 
to close his account or remove the marker. They explained that all of the payments out of  
Mr Js account were made via their mobile banking app on two separate phones registered 
on Mr Js account. Metro explained that in order for a fraudster to download their app and 
access Mr Js accounts they wouldve needed Mr Js 12 digit customer number, his eight 
digit security number, password and access to the One-Time Passcode (OTP) which was 
sent to Mr Js mobile phone (Phone A).
Unhappy with Metros response, Mr J brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, they felt Metro 
had acted fairly in applying the CIFAS marker and closing Mr Js account.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying:
the CIFAS marker lasts for 6 years and this will have a huge impact on him. 
he didnt understand the importance of giving his banking information to the trader. 
he was hesitant and didnt think giving his bank details to the trader was a good idea 
 but the trader pushed him into doing it.
As Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
In this case, Metro asked for a CIFAS marker to be applied for misuse of facility  relating 
to the account being used to receive fraudulent funds. To file that marker, Metro arent 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr J is guilty of fraud or financial crime, but 
they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
In short, Im satisfied that Metro has fairly applied this marker for the following reasons:
Mr J initially told Metro that he gave the trader his bank account details, however 
there is evidence that Mr J also gave out his security log in details for his mobile 
banking including a One-Time Passcode (OTP) - which allowed the fraudster to 
download and use the Metro mobile banking app to access Mr Js account. Mr J has 
been unable to provide a legitimate reason as to why this information would be 
necessary in order for the trader to made trades on his behalf.
Its unclear why the trader would want access to Mr Js mobile banking and the ability 
to view his balances and move money in and out of his accounts in relation to 
trading. Especially as Mr Js account balance was rarely over £100, so there were no 
funds in Mr Js account that couldve been used for trading.
Mr J says that he wasnt aware the £5,000 had been paid into his account, or that 
two payments were made out of his account for £2,000 and £2,980. However, prior to 
these payments Mr J had set up C as a new payee and made a payment for £1. This 
same payee was used for the two large payments that were made out of his account. Mr J is unable to explain why he needed to set the payee up or make the payment of 
£1.
Mr J has been inconsistent in what hes told us and what hes told Metro. Its unclear 
exactly what his arrangement was with the fraudster, or what Mr J was told. Mr J is 
unable to provide any of the communication he had with the fraudster. Because of 
this, its unclear why the fraudster would trade on Mr Js behalf for free when it 
appears that Mr J didnt send any funds to the fraudster to enable trading. 
Mr J told us in response to the investigators view that he was hesitant and didnt 
think giving his bank details out was a good idea, but that the trader pushed him into 
doing it. Im not satisfied that Mr J acted reasonably in sharing his security 
information and banking information to a degree that it allowed someone to register a 
mobile phone with Metro, download the Metro app then log into Mr Js account and 
have full access to his Metro banking. 
Metro received a fraud claim in relation to the £5,000 payment made into Mr Js 
account. The report also included a separate payment of £1,000 which was also 
made to Mr Js account, but which was stopped by the bank and not credited to his 
account. From what Ive seen, Mr J wasnt entitled to the funds from either payment 
and there is sufficient evidence to show that Mr Js account was used for the receipt 
of fraudulent funds.
Its unclear exactly what the arrangement was with the trader, or what part Mr J played in the 
movement of the funds. However, Im not satisfied that Mr J has acted reasonably in 
providing his security information to the trader, which allowed them access to his account 
and the ability to send on the money received into Mr Js account as a result of fraud.
I also considered whether Metro acted fairly in closing Mr Js account. 
I can see the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Js account allow Metro to suspend or 
stop providing their service for a number of reasons, including you have used, are using or 
getting, or may use or get a service or money illegally, fraudulently or improperly, or that 
someone else acting on your behalf may do so. The terms and conditions also say that 
Metro may stop offering the service immediately.
From what Ive seen Metro gave Mr J seven days notice of their intention to close his 
account. Based on the information we have regarding the money paid into Mr Js account, 
the funds moved out of Mr Js account and the access that he gave the fraudster to his 
account  I cant see that Metro acted unreasonably in closing his account.
While I appreciate that Mr J is now having difficulty opening a new bank account, Im 
satisfied that Metro acted fairly and reasonably in closing Mr Js account and applying the 
CIFAS marker.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman