DRN-2910133
The complaint
Ms W complains about the service and support she has received from Zopa Limited (Zopa) 
in respect of a fixed sum loan agreement (agreement) it arranged for her.
What happened
Ms W entered into the agreement on 15 November 2018, with the funds being dispersed on 
19 November 2018. The amount of credit was £18,310, of which £810 was withheld as a 
borrower fee and of which £17,500 was sent to Ms Ws nominated bank account.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Ms W undertook to make 36 
monthly payments of £613.07  making a total repayable of £22,070.52 at an APR of 16.9%.
In December 2018 Ms W wrote to Zopa asking it how she could cancel the loan and repay it, 
because it wasnt right for her needs.
Zopa explained that the loan couldnt be cancelled but could be settled and what the cost of 
settlement would be. Ms W decided not to settle her loan early.
In June 2019 Ms W asked for her loan to be increased by two years so as to reduce her 
monthly payments.
Zopa explained that this wasnt possible.
In November 2019 Ms W asked Zopa if she could borrow a further £5,000.
Zopa explained this wasnt possible.
In December 2019 Ms W wrote to Zopa to say she was experiencing financial difficulties but 
was prepared to pay £366.97 a month towards her loan obligation. In support Ms W provided 
a redacted copy of a budget that had been completed with the assistance of a licensed debt 
advisor.
Despite Zopa having some concerns about the redacted budget supplied by Ms W, it agreed 
in January 2020 to her making reduced payments of £50 against her loan obligation for the 
next six months.
In August 2020, and after expiry of the above payment plan, Ms W wrote to Zopa to say that 
she was prepared to pay £193.93 a month for 72 months interest free to clear her loan 
obligation.
Zopa considered Ms Ws proposal but concluded it wasnt, for various reasons, acceptable. 
And so, it took the decision to default the account. At the time of default Ms W was in arrears 
of approximately £4,500, or approximately seven monthly payments.
In May 2021 Ms W asked for a payment holiday and/or payment freeze.
Zopa explained this wasnt possible.
Unhappy with how Zopa had treated her, Ms W complained to our service.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that Zopa had 
done nothing wrong.
Ms W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Its clear Ms W has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Ms W will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
First, I would like to address Ms Ws concerns that Zopa refused her request:
to cancel the loan in December 2018
increase the loan term by two years in June 2019
to borrow a further £5,000 in November 2019.
Now I can understand the reasons for the above three requests, but Im not persuaded that 
Zopa did anything wrong here. In respect of Ms Ws request to cancel the loan Im satisfied 
this was made too late and therefore the only option open to Ms W, and as advised by Zopa, 
was early settlement of the loan.
In respect of Ms Ws request for both a loan term increase and a further borrowing of £5,000 
I can confirm that Im satisfied that these were both commercial decisions that Zopa was 
entitled to make and decisions that it would be neither fair nor reasonable for me to interfere 
with.
I will now turn to Ms Ws complaint about how she was treated after she contacted Zopa to 
explain she couldnt maintain her payments. The rules and guidance relevant to Ms Ws agreement are set out in the FCAs Consumer 
Credit handbook, CONC. For ease of reference, Ive highlighted some of these below. 
CONC 7.3.4R states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. And 7.3.5G explains that 
examples of forbearance could include deferment of payment of arrears or accepting 
token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to 
recover. 
CONC 7.3.6G states that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a 
firm should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt. 
CONC 7.3.14R states that a firm must not take disproportionate action against a 
customer in arrears or default. 
CONC 3.3.1R states that communications from firms must be clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Now I accept that Ms W doesnt agree but having considered what both parties have said 
and submitted Im satisfied that Zopa acted in line with the requirement to treat customers in 
arrears fairly. In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard to the fact that:
Zopa tried to engage with Ms W on more than one occasion to agree a repayment 
plan that was acceptable to both parties.
Although there might have been no obligation on the part of Ms W to complete an 
income and expenditure statement, or a further one, I dont think such a request was 
unreasonable. I would also add that, everything else being equal, I would expect a 
business to make such a request as a matter of good industry practice.
Zopa accepted reduced payments of £50 a month (or 20%) from Ms W for six 
months.
It was only after the above payment plan came to an end and that Ms W made it 
clear that she was only able to make payments of £193.33 a month (or 30%) going 
forward that Zopa took the decision to default the agreement.
It was only after Ms W fell approximately £4,500, or approximately seven monthly 
payments, in arrears that Zopa took the decision to default the agreement.
By defaulting the agreement Ms W was able to secure what it was she was seeking, 
that being an interest freeze and the ability to make substantially reduced payments 
towards her agreement.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that:
I find none of Zopas correspondence to have been threatening. In my view all Zopas 
correspondence was clear and factual, sent with good intentions and with the desire 
on its part to try and agree a way forward that was acceptable to both parties.
I make no comment, nor do I need to, about what Ms W says the FCA advised her 
about Zopas actions except to say that Ive seen insufficient evidence that Zopa has 
breached any of its regulatory obligations including those cited by Ms W.In summary Im satisfied that Zopa have done nothing wrong in this case, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything. I would also suggest that if Ms W is able to make, and wants to 
make, payments against her defaulted balance that she contact Zopa to agree the same. 
However, its not my role to suggest what an acceptable sum might be, either in monetary or 
percentage terms.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman